llff J 01 ‘ l! V .1, Ofj 1^ d I
CIjjj Olb^st llttospapr rmT«e:deb ioit^ ^priixmlism xtt (?5r.eitt §xifixht.
■■■£, :
Mintf
&"f >
No. 176.—(VOL. vm.—No. |i);
LQNDQK: ,ERIDAY, JANUARY. 7, 1876.
.waSSS’t'
Published Weekly; Price .Twopfencaj
Contents.
The Necessity for Mesmeric Experiments in Spiritualism 1
A Haunted House   .i. . ..', ■'..V kSIsZ.u' '.'..: 1
Spirit Teachings. No.' XL v. ... ....;. .•...: •.£'• 2:
The Prince of Wales among the Ihdiau Jugglers ... ; .,v . 3;
What is Magic?—Physical Manifestations : among'the^ .
Greeks and Romans — Promised Experiments in
Magic... : ... ... . ..:   ...* ... . ...- ... ... ... 4
Spiritualism in South Africa ... ... ... ;.v. c;-. i..., ...;j •• 5.
Taking Casts of Materialised Spirit Hands   ...• =5
The Oracle of the Dead in Thesprotia. By St. George W. '
Stock..., ....... ... ... ,  , 5.
Enlargement of The Spiritualist ... ... .... K 6
A Let ter from Mr. Robert Dale Owen  .6.
Poetry:—Gone Home  ... . .i.,- ... ..,   .. ■ ‘7
Correspondence:^—A Remarkable Photographic Effect--
Clairvoyance—The Conference Papers—A Practical
Step1—Healing Mediumship—Mr. Herne's •5ea;ic£s7ftt- -
Liverpool—Help for Mrs. Jackson—Where shall the.
next Spiritualist Conference'be held ?—Semce‘vnth the -
Bamford Boys at Macclesfield—Alleged Influence of
Will-Power at Seances—Mrs. .Tappari on Dean Stanley.
—The Spirituality of Buddhism—What Directs' the
Forces of Nature...^' [...’*.'-,‘ 7.! ... ... 7.
Provincial . News:—Liverpool, ' Annual' Meeting of the
Liverpool Psychological Society; Sunday Services—
Newcastle-on-Tyne, A Midnight Stance on New Year’s
Eve ; A Seance with the- Petty Family—Birmingham,
Witchcraft in Warwickshire; A Seance with the Petty
Family—Oldham, Spiritualism in Oldham; The Heal¬
ing.Powers of Mesmerism... .;. ... ... ... •'... ... ft
Religious Spiritualism... ... .v; ... 10
A Spirit Message ...     11
The Late Archbishop Whately’s Relationship to Spirit¬
ualism—Archbishop Whately on Spiritualism   12
Henry Cornelius Agrippa ... i  ... ...   12
Answers to Correspondents     12
Paragraphs :—Mrs. Hardinge on Spiritualism in America,
5; Spiritualism in Islington, 5; Witchcraft in War¬
wickshire, 5; Spiritualism in Frankfort, 6; Spirit¬
ualistic Conversazione and Ball, 6; Spirit People, 6 ;
The “ Double Theory,” 10; National Association
Soiree, 11; Mr. Morse in the Provinces, 11; Reception
»t Mrs. Makdougall; Gregory’s;!! ; The, Shakers, it;
Prize Essays, 11; Professor William Denton’s Re¬
searches, 11; Ecclesiastical Information, 11; A Social
jH! Ifctosppir*
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Half-a-
vy crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every'ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or
figures count as ' one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“-The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. - “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one-year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,’
W.C City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lahe,
London, E.C. •
BIKKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29
 :4~ iand 30,;Southampton-buildings, Chancery-laMe; ,
”Foub. per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to.*the, Joint-Stock Banks.
 »- * ...f. ..Cheque Books supplied. ’ '
Purchases and Sales of British^ Foreign, ana Colonial Bonds
' Stocks Shares, j&„. effected. Adyan£ea_made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on
w - ■' i Saturdays from’ 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full-particulars may be obtained
. post-free on'application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER: &: GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE," REGENT’S' PARK.
YisaSl&i i i ~ ; ESTABLISgE9,:d833:v; a
Has a very large stock of New * Spring Goods,-including.
■ —-mti&L-—B* hats, shirts, and umbrellas: -
'\\7HBRE. ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
. v T ::“I^.ilSM EXPLAINED.' ' By'Fredk.. A.'Binney.
Third E(|RI'oh,- Price 3s.
joNDQN-T-SlMBKIN, MARSHAIL & CO.' .
edB&tgS'aaMjfiME&MV - ,  i—~r ■: s—;—5—’ 
y Will shortly he published,' ’’
TVR. MO'NCK’S ALMANACK and TRUTH-
A..7 ' SEERERS’. GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.” jOyer fdrty closely printed.pages..
Price ftd'. j Cddtai^e.oriSinal articles on “ Scientific ■Spiritual¬
ism,”': “dhi Bcmo?”“‘v-The! Healing Power,!’ .’“Rules for-the
Spirit-clrcjfe;” 4^’ ‘fee., by S.'*’G. Hall, Dr. W. Hifchman,
“Fritz,’! T.t|Pd;Btirkas/ &c.. Will-be found very useful among
^Sceptics and.Investigators.. - Quantities supplied to societies or
for free distribptionji’t a great reduction. Single copy,-, post
: ^ree, 3d. A'ddrfessf Oeo.. Tommy, 7, Unity-street;" Bristol^
Agents wanted. -
SPIRITUAL BAZAAR IN' BIRMINGHAM;
• - SPIRITUALISTIC• PROPAG'ANDA.v' .* •
The- Society spiritualists,
operating.at the,Athenieumj Temple^streeLRirpaingham,
purposes holding a small Bazaar, or Sale” of'Useful and’Faucy
Articles; atithe Athenasum, ogMohdRy, Japuary'Sdth, tp open
at , Three okslock p.m.,' andito. conclude with a Concert, and
Miscellaneous Entertainment, commencing at Eight p.m. This
Entertainment will he-of a superior-character, two or three
professjlonal.s.ingers having kindly promised their services.
The proceeds of the Bazaar andvEn ter tainsnent are intended
to form'the nucleus of a fundifor Building a Lecture Hall and
Spiritual Lycelifn'; said fund to.’be incrbased-by. Entertain¬
ments, Seances, and otherwise; during the next two years.
■f Any.contributions of money or goods for the Bazaar will be
thankfully received by either of. the following ladies: —Mrs.
Groom, 166, St, Yincent-street; Mrs. Foley, 288, I'bknieid-
street,, West; Mrs. Harper,, Soho-hill, .Handsworth; • Mrs.:
Sunderland. 67, Bull-street; Mrs. Hill, 224, Bristol-street; Mrs.
Starling, 160, Lozelis-ro&d, Handsworth./ JtpbArt -rEforper'
(Soho-hill);.Treasurer. \ , ■ , . ■’   , ; , '
BIRMINGHAM.—On Sunday, January 9th,
the Monthly Tea Party, will be he.ld at the Athenteum,
Adults ! 9d., Children Cd. ; after which, there will be a
Conference and Experience-Meeting, when Messrs. Judd,
Turner, and others will give passages from their experience.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of, The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and hound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.',
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.' ” J
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—-Death:
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
■ XVI.—Conclusion. -
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
may be had in a week or two, price IGs. 6d. each, at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street;
Londph, W.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psieologica di Njceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, pub¬
lished on the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36. Rue
de la Cathddrale, Lifege, Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.-
T3 EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JLll logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears bn the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 frane. Published by the SociAti
Ahoriyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston,
- U.S., will, early in January, commence the publication
of a translation of the works of H. Cornelius Agrippa, and, it
is devoting considerable -space to Occult Philosophy. Subs¬
criptions, 13s. per annum, including postage, from America.
Money orders to be made payable to J. Selwood, 38, 'Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT; The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy, in the
world ! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place,' Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther'Colby, editor: aido’d by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a-first-class,' eight-
paged family, paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports' of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spirituai,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;'
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, <fcc., &c. Term's ’of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist' Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,' W.C.1
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence^
T■HE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE^ EDITED BY
I GEORGE SEXTON; LL.D# etc.. .This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to thetcause of Spiritualism,
paying now. been in existence, for. upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand In the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literaryj ability, and contained only such articles'-as
weredikely tq hive a permanent interest ■
London:. Smart and Allen,' London-house-yardj Eatornoater-
row, E.O. ^
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIYflONpU;
SPIRITUALISTS,^. ’U:^i[BM
38, .GREAT RUSSELL STREET, ‘W.C? V'Y
AGENDA FOR JANUARY -'f,
Monday. ..... ,3rd.—Offices and Library Committee, at fi p.m.
Wednesday, 6th.—DalSton Society’s Soiree Dansante ati
Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street. The-
' ■ soiree of the B N. A. S., usually held on thel>
first Wednesday In the month, is therefore.
.' . postponed till the second Wednesday. 4
Monday, - .Ipth.—Lecture and Discussion Committee at 6 p.m.1
Tuesday,-.: :vllth,-r“Priza Essay Committee at 5.30.' ‘
. ■’»,, ' . ,', Finance Committee at 6 p.m. . *i
*) ' 1 '*„■ CduhcilMaeling at 6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, ,12th.—Soiree at 6.30 p.m. Music, Conversation^
and Refreshments. Open to Members and-
Friends; admission Is.
Uth.—Seance for Enquirers at 7.30 p.m. Mr. C.'
E. Williams, Medium. , .
17th.—Soipee Committee at 6 p.m.
18th.—Seance Committee at 6, p.m.
„ Provincial Societies Committee at 7 p.m.
24th.—Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m. Free to'
Members and Subscribers.
Members of Commitl ees are requested to attend the meetings
mentioned in the above list, without further notice. Tney
will be further advised of any Special Meetings which it may
be necessary to conveae during the month.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
6, Loughborough Road North.
Tuesday, 4th.—Council Meeting at 8 p.m.
Wednesday, 12th —Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Friday, 14th.—Annual Soiree at the Assembly Rooms,
Islington. Chair at 8 0’clock. Admission Is;
Every Sunday.—Public'Meetings at the Islington Assembly
Booms, at 3 and 7 p.m. Trance Mediums
from all parts of England.
COMMITTEES OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Offices and Library Committee:
Mr. Thos. Evbeitt, Chairman.
Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Kislingbury, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr.
E. T. Bennett, Mr. J. Freeman.
Soiree Committee :
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Chairman.
Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Maltby, Mrs. Kislintrbury, Mrs. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, Miss H. Withal! Mr. Tbps, Evoritt, Mr. J.
Freeman.
Provincial Societies Committee:
Mr. H. Withall; Chairman.
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. E. T. Bennett,
Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. J. J. Morse.
* Leclure dnd Discussion Committee:
Mrt Geo'. King, Chairman.
Mr. Martin.R. Smith, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. J. Fred.
Collingwood, Mr. H. T. Humphreys, Mr. E. P. Ashton.
Seance Committee:
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Chairman.
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. T. Everitt, Mr. J. R. Tapp, Mr.
Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. S. Cciunery, Mr. Keningale Cook.
Finance Committee:
Mr.'Morell Theobald. Chairman.'
Mr.Martin R. Smith, Mr. Alex. Gaidar, Mr.’ Geo. King.
BRITISH
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
WINTER MEETINGS.
A continuation of these meetings will be held at the Rooms
of the'Association for reading and discussing papers on
Spiritualism and kindred topics. They-will recommence on
Monday, January 24th at 7.30 o’clock, and will be. held fort¬
nightly until: the end'of April. Friends having papers to
communicate are requested to'is.end them, at an early date to
the Secretary, at 38; Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W O..-
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
. OF SPIRIT UALISTS
' WILL HOLD -:
THEIR NEXT CONV.ERS AZIONE
On Wednesday, Jan.112th, 1876', at their Rooms, §8, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W,,C,
a Entrance in Wobum-street.
These meetings have’been organised at (the request, and for
the benefit of Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting
friends and members^ and1 of discussing matters of interest
connected- with the Spiritualistic movement.
Music and other entertainments wiil' be provided at each
meeting. -
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of
interest is requested for exhibition.
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tiekets only; to be obtained in advance of the
resident secretary, Miss .Kislingbury/ 38, Great Russeli-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C."' .' ' '- -■?
AST LONDON SPJRITUAUMEETINOS.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Ybursday evening at 8,-:p.n|.,j.-at Mr. Cpgman’s
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-rpad, Mile-end.. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven O’clock./’Admissios
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
Friday,
Monday,
Tuesday,
Monday,
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfteld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thonias, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.K.C.S., 29, Erskine-strect, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Hollywood, Mrs., 62, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.lt.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Bamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin K., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, Einchley-road, N.W.
Wasou, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Annilcld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W-
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Keigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. II., 7, Oborstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 84, Walnut-street, Gheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd,North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-ro'ad, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6 Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymom-street, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammer¬
smith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, X, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate,Regent’s
Park., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road.’Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-rd., Church-end, Fincliley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House,Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Suelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace.Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisliugbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
' Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Direkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veil, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EJysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Rikq, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia. f *
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W- L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemoii-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-strect, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de i’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Aldlle. Huet, 178, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka J osefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23,
;Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM & LIBRARY
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and
periodicals connected with Spiritualism, from all
parts of the world, and various high-class journals, are regu¬
larly supplied. The library contains, in addition to the best
writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, speculative, and
scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes
membership; Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d.
To non-members, annual tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.;
Monthly, 5s.
A Seance-toom can be engaged under special arrangements,
to be learned from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on
Saturdays.
British national association of
SPIRITUALISTS. TRANCE PAINTINGS.—Several
small oil-paintings, in gilt frames, executed in the trance by
the celebrated medium, David Duguid, of Glasgow, and re¬
presenting Scotch scenery, are now ON SALE at 38, Great
Russell-street, at greatly reduced prices, varying from 20s. to
35s. Application to be made to the secretary, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
British national association of
SPIRITUALISTS. FOR SALE.—A variety of Musical
Boxes of superior quality, to be sold for the benefit of the
Funds of the Association. In good order, containing eight
airs each. Maker, Nicole, Geneva. Price, £6 6s. The style
of box and selection of music at the choice of the purchaser.
Apply to the secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
W.C.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr G. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainsworth, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Mr, P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
Instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
Jan. 7, 1876.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and
Thursday evenings ; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists
only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium
AND MEDICAL MESMERIST, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his
Spirit Physicians, who cure through him, in his normal
state, that having been developed by them into a powerful
healing medium, and at the same time, by a course of deep
study, acquired a practical knowledge of the philosophy of
disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to ex¬
amine, treat, and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of
acute, chronic, nervous, and organic disease of long years’
standing. Consultations and invaluable treatment given at
his own house, or at patient's residence, by appointment.
Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily.
Fee, One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-
gardens, South Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (30 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
THE BOY MEDIUMS.—Bamford Brothers,
Physical Mediums, will give Seances as follows:—On
Monday and Wednesday evenings, at 7 o’clock p.m., admission
2s. 6d ; on Saturday evenings, at 7, Is. t26, Pool-street, Sutton,
Macclesfield.
MR. S. R. REDMAN, Professor of Animal
Magnetism, begs' to inform inquirers and others that
he is prepared to attend Public or Private Seances at the houses
of investigators or otherwise, and give his unique illustrations
of Mesmeric and Psychological Phenomena, as recently given
by him before the members of ‘ The Brixton Psychological
Society.” For terms, etc., apply by letter to Mr. S. R. Redman,
Brixton-hill, S.W.
MAGNETIC HEALING.
LADY MAGNETISER attends patients at
their own homes for Headache, Neuralgia, Sore-throat,
Gout, Rheumatism, Sprains, &c. To Public Singers and
Speakers the benefit is invaluable. Letters to Mrs. Newton,
53, Holly wood-road, West Brompton, S.W.
Mesmerism and electro-biology.—
Complete Instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-
Biology, with full and explicit directions for the production of
all the different phases of these marvellous and mysterious
Psychological Phenomena. Private Instructions personally or
by Post. For terms, address, Mr. E. H. Valter, Claremont-
villa, 51, Belgrave-road, Birmingham.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION FOR THE
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Islington. A
good “Magnetic” healer in attendance daily, from 11 a.m.
until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays and Wednesdajs free.
Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
IT^OR the CURE OF NERYOUS AND MUS-
JD CULAR DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church,
74, Queen’s-road, Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Ope¬
rators sent to all parts. Terms per arrangement.
J. Coates, Principal.
Mesmerism, electro-biology,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Claikvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granville-square, London, W.O. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR’S PRESENTS.
npHE “STURMBERG” BLANCHETTE
JL writes answers to your thoughts, whether by Spirit
Agency of not, all should judge for themselves. Of most fancy
dealers, or from J. Stormont, 59a, Constitution-hill, Birming¬
ham, 8s., 5s. 6d., 4s. 4d., 2s. 9d., and Is. 9d. post free.
ENGLISH AND AMERICAN BOOKS
ON
Spiritualism, Psychology, Mesmerism, Anthropology,
Mental Physiology, and Kindred Subjects,
Are on sale at the Branch Office oi The Spiritualist News¬
paper, 38, Great Russell-stieet, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Booksellers and others who have Works upon these .-ubjects
are requested to forward their Lists by post to the Manager.
THE NECESSITY FOR MESMERIC EXPERIMENTS IN
SPIRITUALISM.
Of all the future work to be undertaken in connection with
Spiritualism, none presses with so much urgency, under
present conditions, as the ascertaining to what extent
mediums, and more especially physical mediums, are respon¬
sible for their acts, for in the instance of the Holmeses in
America, of Buguet in Paris, and in many similar though
less striking cases, the question has arisen whether the
mediums are answerable for what they do at the time that,
to the casual observer, they are supposed to be in their
normal state. For instance, sensitives, while under the
influence of the mesmerist, will often go about a room doing
everything which he wills they shall do; if the mesmerist
were invisible to the spectators, his subjects would be
supposed to be responsible for their acts, whereas all the
time they are helplessly under the control of another will
than their own. Their eyes are open at the time, and they
appear to be in full possession of all their faculties. If
mediums when fully under the power are in this state, and
are not responsible for what they do, the truth ought to be
recognised, because they should not be blamed without
cause ; if, on the other hand, they are responsible, the fact
ought to bp established. The best method of throwing light
upon these questions, seems to us to be the familiarising of
Spiritualists everywhere with the phenomena of mesmerism.
Mesmeric lectures ought to be encouraged from one end of
the country to the other; indeed, if more of these were
given, the experimental illustrations they would furnish
would be of more permanent value than many of the public
discourses delivered at the present time from our platforms,
consisting chiefly of personal opinions. The way in which
spirits control mediums is not known at present, although it
is supposed to be done by mesmeric influence; nothing could
be more instructive than to mesmerise a sensitive, and then
to try to make a speech through his lips by will-power; the
extent to which the organism of the sensitive would change
the ideas and words of the operator would be seen, and a
step would be taken in the direction of ascertaining the
difficulty which spirits have in communicating, and the
extent to which their utterances are modified by the medium.
At the winter meetings of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, it is intended to give attention to this subject, and
it might be well if it were brought on before anything else.
Those who have powerful physical mediums in their families
would be much interested in gaining practical knowledge of
the extent to which a sensitive may be influenced by a
mesmerist, and after observing a course of such experiments,
they would be in a better position to state their experiences
at home, and to give more trustworthy information as to the
extent to which mediums are responsible for their acts.
Those who have closely studied strong physical mediums,
think that they are very much less responsible than casual
observers suppose, and that they are under the control of an
outside power to a much greater extent than is generally
believed. We have often known a medium to suddenly
begin to speak in a foreign language while in the middle of
ordinary conversation ; we also know of a case where a lady
entertained guests for two or three hours, and served out tea
to them, yet all the time was under spirit control and knew
nothing about it afterwards ; further, we know of a medium
who acted like any ordinary person for two days, yet those
two days were perfect blanks in her existence; she afterwards
knew nothing about them because she had been under spirit
control all the time; yet in all these cases both Spiritualists
and sceptics were talking to them as if they were ordinary
mortals, responsible for everything they did. Little headway
can be made in unravelling the philosophy of the benefits
and dangers of mediumship, until some of these points have
been settled by experiment.
A HAUNTED HOUSE.
A house in London, in which Mr. Home once lived, is
well known among metropolitan Spiritualists to have been
haunted ever since, and perhaps before, for his residence on
the premises may or may not have had an influence in pro¬
ducing the disturbances which followed. Details respecting
the said hauntings are not, however, generally known, so
the particulars extracted from the following private letter,
lent us per favour of the Rev. Thomas Colley, curate of
Portsmouth, will be read with interest:—
u Touching Miss M ’s most remarkable experiences,
they were never committed to paper that I know of. I
assure you we never possessed a written account of them, and
can only imagine that E  repeated the story so graphi¬
cally that it must have left that impression upon your mind.
The house in which Miss M was staying was in 
street, and the only clue that was ever discovered to the
mysterious sights, sounds, and feelings, was the fact that it
had once been inhabited by Mr. Home. To give a very short
sketch, the facts were as follows :—Miss M went to stay
with her invalid friend, Miss M e, at midsummer some
four years ago, or more. Hearing a good deal of walking
about up and down stairs the first night, she supposed her
friend had required some unusual attention from, the ser¬
vant, and was rather surprised at the maid replying to her
inquiries that Miss M e had had a good night.
u The second night nothing happened. On the third Miss
M  was awoke about three o’clock by the sound as of a
heavy body falling against her door. Of this she said
nothing. The following morning, about the same hour, the
servant, sleeping next door to Miss M , came to her and
asked if she might stay in her room, for there were footsteps
going round her bed. Of course Miss M assented, and
told her to make up her bed on the sofa in her room the
following night. This, I think, would be the fifth night.
I should mention that this servant, 4 Keziah ’ by name, was
a new comer, and knew no more than Miss M about the
4 haunted ’ house. Her room opened into Miss M ’s.
These rooms were over the two drawing-rooms; Miss M e
occupied the back drawing-room, and her maid slept in the
same room.
44 The fifth night Keziah slept on the sofa in Miss M ’s
room, and it being very hot had only a sheet over her. At
the charmed hour of three o’clock she was awoke by a weight
resting upon her, and she saw the outline of an arm through
the sheet; she put her hands under, and lifted—I suppose
threw—it off. Miss M—— awoke, to find Keziah standing
by her bedside, looking 4 as white as a sheet,’ and saying
she had been clutched! The next day she was lame.
Nothing daunted, and still telling Miss M -e nothing,
Miss M took the sofa the sixth night, and gave up her
bed to Keziah. She did go to sleep, and waking about half¬
past three thought to herself, how comfortable she felt, and
turned round to go to sleep again. As she turned she felt
her arm clutched; this time she did not open her eyes, but
! flung her arms wide apart; the clutch was loosened, and
! when she looked up there was nothing to be seen, but the
next day she could hardly hold a pen to write from the pain
in her arm.
44 Miss M , as perhaps you know, is not at all a fanci¬
ful person, but one who possesses strong common sense and
moral courage, of which I think her conduct throughout
JL IJajtiijir of IVjttjss of m jlijujitti} attb of JIjMflfttaftsnt.
Volume Eiqht. Number Oj^e.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 7th, 1876.
2
Jan. 7, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
this time was an indisputable proof. However, after two
persons had suffered from this nameless visitant, it was
thought that something ought to be done. So Miss M e’s
brother was informed, still keeping the invalid as uninformed
as might be of there being anything amiss in the house. A
detective was sent from Scotland-yard, and after staying
two or three weeks—that is, during the nights—he declared
he could bear it no longer, though he never divulged to the
people in the house what he saw. His successor was equally
unsuccessful in discovering any cause for these disturbances ;
whether his nerves were stronger I do not remember.
These men were chiefly posted in Keziah’s room, whilst Miss
M , Keziah, and her brother, sat up night after night,
in the adjoining room, watching extraordinary lights on the
walls, for which no theory of reflection would account, and
hearing divers sounds, all without avail in clearing up the
mystery.
a This went on for six weeks, and it was not until after
Miss M—— left London at the end of that time that they
even discovered the clue—if such it can be called—that
Home had once tenanted the house.
“ I believe I have told you the main facts. They have,
ever since I heard the story, been so vividly impressed on
my mind that I not think Miss M would find much to
cut out; doubtless there would be a good deal that she might
fill in.”
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
XLV.
March 15, 1874.—[We had received many warnings as to
the danger of deception by personating spirits, and the warning
had gained force by a particular case occurring in our expe¬
rience, though outside of our circle, in which such an attempt
had been made. Many very striking messages were given on
the subject, of which the only one sufficiently public in interest
is the following:]
We have been particular in our statements, because we
are anxious to reiterate the warnings we have frequently
given, as to the danger of attack by deceptive and person¬
ating spirits, whom you know as The Undeveloped. Of late,
too, we have told you that trouble and perplexity were at
hand through this same cause, and we gave you special
warning lest you should fall a prey to their attacks. We
have ascertained that the spirit who falsely pretended to be
working with us is a personating spirit, whose aim is to
injure and retard our work.
We need to explain fully on this point. You have heard
of the antagonism between the adversaries and the divine
work which is in process amongst you. There is direct
antagonism between them and us, between the work which
is for man’s development and instruction, and their efforts to
retard and thwart it. It is the old battle between what you
call the good and the evil—between the progressive and the
retrogressive. Into the ranks of that opposing army gravi¬
tate spirits of all degrees of malignity, wickedness, cunning
and deceit: those who are actively spurred on by the hatred
©flight which an unenlightened spirit has, and those who are
animated by sportiveness rather than by actual malice. It
includes, in short, the undeveloped of every grade and class :
spirits who are opposed, for infinitely varying reasons, to
the organised attempt to lead men upward from darkness to
light, with which we are associated, in company with hosts
of others.
It would appear that your inability to see the operations of
these adversaries renders you unable to grasp their existence,
or to appreciate the magnitude of their influence in your
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of some phenomena
which occurred in a private circle held at the house of Dr. Stanhope Speer, 13, Alexandra-
road, Finchley-road, N.W., through the mediutnship of a gentleman who is known to Spirit¬
ualists under the now, de plume of “ M. A. (Oxon).” A mass of evidence as to identity given up
to that time has since been greatly increased, and in all cases where verification is possible,
the statements made have been found to be literally accurate. This has been the case when
extracts from rare works have been laboriously authenticated in the library of the British
Museum. Evidence being so given of the independent action of spirit, and of the freedom
of the messages from colour bj) the medium’s thoughts, it has been thought well to print
selections from a great mass of “ Spirit Teachings ” which have been from time to time
written out automatically through his hand. The communications so given extend over
three years, and are principally concerned with the Beligious A spects of Spiritualism. They
are the work of many spirits, each of whom preserves his individuality, even to the pecu¬
liarity of the writing used. The opinions are frequently the reverse of those held by the
medium, and are written (as far as can be ascertained) without aid from his mind. The
hand is automatically moved, even though the brain be occupied about other work. Great
care has been taken to provide conditions under which reliable messages can be
Obtained.—[Ed.] Jm . _v ,
i|| world. Not till your spiritual eyes are open will you really
I ! understand how great it is, and how present. To those
| ] ranks gravitate, of necessity, the earth-bound and un-
j j progressed spirits to whom incarnation has brought no
! | gain, and whose affections, centred on the earth, where
| | all their treasue is, can find no scope in the pure
| | spiritual joys of the spheres of spirit-life. Hover-
I | ing over their old haunts, they live over again their
| | wretched, polluted earth-lives, by influencing congenial
| | spirits still in the body, and so gratifying their lusts and
| | passions at second hand.
| | The poor wreck whose lusts have survived the death of
| | that body in which and for which alone he lived, have sur-
i j vived the means of direct bodily gratification, finds his re-
| | source in seizing on an impressionable medium, and goading
| | him on to sin, so that he may get such poor enjoyment as
| | alone remains for him. The debauched drunkard, who sank
| | his body in disease, and soddened his spirit with the poisoned
| | draughts of liquid fire, now haunts the dens where his plea-
l | sure used to be, and goads on the wretches whom it finds it
| I possible to influence. He leers with spite as he drives one
| | more soul to a lower state of misery, and gloats as he draws
| ] his own foul gratification, though it spread broadcast ruin
||| and woe among innocent women and their babes, and foster
| | in the midst of your centres of knowledge and refinement a
| | sink of infamy and disgrace. These things go on all around
| | you, and attract your notice scarce at all. Where are the
| | denunciations that should ring from end to end of your world
| | while such plague-spots linger—nay, flourish and abound
I | amongst you? Why is no voice uplifted ? Why? but that
ijj the dark influence of those baleful spirits avails to blind
| | your eyes and to paralyse the voice of truth within you. Not
| | in the gin-den alone, but far round it as from a centre, the
| j malign influence radiates, and the vice perpetuates itself.
| | The sot, dead—as you falsely think,—is a sot in spirit still,
| | and his influence perpetuates his vice among congenial spirits
| | yet on earth.
HI The murderer, again, whom your blindness has cut off
| | from the trammels of the body, and let loose in fury on your
| | earth, is not idle. With all his envenomed passions stirred
| ] within him, mad with wrath and sense of wrong—for his
l | sin is frequently the result of your civilisation, and he is
| | what you have made him—he goes forth to wreak his
| | vengeance on those who have wronged him. He incites to
| | rage and destruction of life. He is the prolific inciter of
| | crime, and perpetuates the circumstances of which he was
| I the victim. When will you learn that crimes for which you
| | daily, hourly, visit rude vengeance are but the necessary
| | product of those mixed conditions of life which obtain in
| | your crowded centres of life? Why lop off an ugly branch
| | here and there when the root is rotten? Why punish the
I | wretch because he is what you made him ? Nay, if you be
| | but selfish, why let loose on you a wrathful avenger to your
I | own hurt ? Ah! friend, you must pass through many cycles
| | of progress before you learn that your old criminal code is
ji founded on fallacy, and works to mischief and perpetuation
| j of the abuses it is intended to prevent.
| | These and such as these, coming from your world such as
| | you have made them, are, of necessity, enemies of progress,
I | purity, and peace; adversaries of ours, and leaders in the
1] attack on the work in which we share. What else can they
| j be ? Can that spirit whose earth-life has been one long
| | scene of debauchery and degradation become of a sudden
| | pure and good ? Can the sensualist be changed into one
| i who lives for purity, or the degraded animal into aprogres-
||l sive and aspiring spirit ? You know it cannot be. They
I I are, in company with hosts of others, the foes of man and
j I spirit so far as their desire is to thwart progress and keep
| | down truth. Count on them as a perpetual source of anta-
||| gonism, and if you cannot realise to the full their influence
||| for evil, do not ignore their power, or invite their attacks by
|)| exposing yourself to them.
| | We will leave no word of warning unuttered, for the
| I danger is all the more real that it is so secret and so far-
| j reaching. To their efforts operating on congenial spirits in
i your world you must refer much of crime and misery that
| I exists, among you : war; with its attendant horrors which yet
|[| disgrace and defile your World, and blots your boasted civili-
Jan. 7, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
3
sation and refinement. To them attribute the fostering of
the crimes that befoul your great cities, that spread a mantle
of corruption over them, and make them homes of iniquity
and dwelling-places of shame.
You tell of your progress in knowledge, in art and science,
in culture and refinement. You boast of your civilisation,
and are at pains to send to far distant peoples the religion
which adorns and elevates your own country. Nay, you
even force it on them as that Divinely-given panacea for
human ills of which you are the favoured recipients. It
would be well that you should keep silence over the fruits
which religion and civilisation between them have produced
among you. For your religion we have said frequently that
it is a degenerate offspring of that simple and pure faith
which alone deserves the name of Christianity. For your
civilisation and culture they are but of the surface, and do
but faintly hide festering sores, all too plain to spirit gaze,
while in their ultimate effect upon the nature they are too
frequently demoralising to the truest and noblest instincts,
and productive of hollowness, deceit, and selfishness. The
Arab of the desert, the Indian of the far west, in whom
nature’s instincts have not been dwarfed, distorted, paralysed
by civilisation, is frequently a nobler man than the crafty
trader, who thinks it clever to outwit and overreach, or than
that baser product of civilised life from whose foul tongue
no character is safe, and whose lustful, sensual life marks
none as sacred from attack.
Foul, weltering masses of vice and cruelty, and selfishness,
and heartlessness, and misery that your great cities are ! In
them the spirit is starved and crushed ; dwelling in an at¬
mosphere through which life-giving influence can hardly
penetrate, it groans in agony as it aspires to a purer and
serener air; but its groans ascend hardly above the pall of
darkness that hovers round. The aspirations are crushed
put by reiterated temptation ; good resolves are stolen away
by the adversaries nigh at hand, and the spirit cares less and
less to struggle against the efforts of its foes. These are
only too well seconded by the recklessness and folly
which offer a premium to vice, and make virtue well-nigh
impossible.
And even when the body is removed from those dens of
impurity, sensuality, and woe, which are tenanted by so
many of your fellows, even within reach of your own homes,
where riches secure exemption from bodily distress, what is
the result? We do not see gross vice, shameless physical
surroundings, open degradation of soul and body, but we
breathe an atmosphere scarcely less spiritually bad. Money¬
hunting is the business of life, and pleasure is too often
found in bodily gratification and sensuous enjoyment. The
air is thick with the greed of gold, with lust of power, with
self-seeking in all its myriad forms. The spirit—do you
ever think what is the state of such a spirit? It has no food,
no development, no occupation. It is dwarfed, or compelled
to occupy itself in concerns which drag it back, and give the
adversaries their best chance of fostering and inflaming
passions and desires which are to us detestable. Hardly can
we reach these more than the debased, where in the crowded
alleys and lanes vice has its home ; where in the thronged
exchanges and marts money rules supreme, and breeds its
progeny of selfishness, and greed, and larceny, there the ad¬
versaries have their centres of action, from which their
baleful influence radiates.
But ye know it not. You are ignorant in respect of the
world of causes, and foolish in respect of what you do in your
world in providing conditions favourable to crime and sin.
Your ignorance perpetuates these conditions, and renders it
more hard for us to impress upon you the true principles
which should govern the origination and development of life
upon your globe, and the cultivation of spiritual progress.
Some of your more advanced reformers have seen the vast
importance which attaches to the subject of marriage ; and
we have endeavoured to put forward such views as you were
fitted to receive. Much remains to be said when the world
is ready, but that is not yet. We do but allude to the sub¬
ject as being intimately bound up with the great questions
of disease, crime, poverty, insanity, which vex and disturb
us in our dealings with men. To the folly, and. worse, to the
■criminal recklessness, and not less criminal and more foolish
conventional law which governs the marriage customs among
you, very much is chargeable. And this no less among
those whom you call the educated and refined than among
the ignorant and uncultured, rather, perhaps, does the
greater sin rest with the rich. You must unlearn much
that men have dreamed ; you must undo much that society
has sanctioned in the trafficking that goes under the name-
of marriage ; and you must learn truer and diviner rules
for happiness and progress than you now tolerate, before
you wipe away the great original source of deterioration
and retrogression. Mistake us not! We are no advocates
of license, no apostles of social freedom so called. Liberty
ever degenerates with the foolish into license. We spurn
such notions with contempt, even with more than we view
the infamous buying and selling, the social slavery into
which you have degraded the holiest and divinest law
of life.
Nor have you yet learned that the body is the avenue of
spirit, and that laws of health and conditions under which
bodily development are possible are essential for man in¬
carnated on earth. We have spoken before of this. Now
we only say that in this, as in the other matter, you are in
alliance with our foes. Nineteen centuries have passed since
the pure and refined teachings which you profess to treasure
were spoken amongst men ; and ye are but little better in
all that makes for true progress, but little wiser in real
wisdom, but little advanced in pure religion; nay, ye are
worse than the Essenes amongst whom Jesus lived and was
trained. Ye are as the Scribes and Pharisees, who drew
from Him His bitterest denunciations.
And ye know it not. In matters of body and spirit—
matters of vital import that touch both the life here and the
life hereafter—ye have well-nigh all to learn.
These are some of the adversaries of whom we have told
you aforetime. They are massed in force, ever ready to
thwart, and vex, and injure us. Their ranks are being per¬
petually swelled by spirits debased and degraded by human
ignorance.
In all that we have said we have made no account of those
who strive to do for their race and for its development what
in them lies. We have said nothing of the acts of self-
sacrifice and devotion, the simple noble lives, the generous
acts that redeem your race, and make us hopeful of its
future. Our business now is to paint the dark side of the
picture; and we have so drawn it as best to attract your
attention to it. We earnestly warn you that its lineaments
are sketched with the pencil of truth; and we warn you in
all solemnity that the great truth which underlies this
message, viz., the antagonism between good and evil, and
the fostering of evil by human folly and ignorance, is one
which vitally concerns you and us in the future of the work
which we have in charge.
We have more to say, but not now. Farewell, and may
the Spirit of Wisdom enlighten you I + Imperator.
THE PRINCE OF WALES AMONG THE INDIAN
JUGGLERS.
One day at Parell His Royal Highness had an hour of
quiet amusement in camp, watching the tricks of some
Indian jugglers and snake-charmers, which have been de¬
scribed a hundred times over, and which never lose their
interest foMhe spectator. After breakfast a ragged train of
fellows leading apes and carrying bags was seen coming up
the main street of the camp to one of the tents. These
were followed by seven or eight ugly, shapeless elderly
women in bright drapery, carrying what are considered here
musical instruments. They all squatted under the shade of
the trees in front of one of the tents apart—conjurors, ape-
leaders, singing women. Presently the Prince sauntered
down from the house and took a seat in front of the tent,
and his suite sat or stood around him, while the charmers
and conjurors prepared for their exhibition, but the natives
had no idea of the illustrious person’s identity. The camp
followers gathered round, and soldiers from the tents near at
hand, till one of the suite, remembering what occurred on a
similar occasion in India, cleared them away. The jugglers
and snake-charmers were the first to show off. They were
<
4 THE SPIRITUALIST. Jan. 7, 1876.
only two—old cliatty fellows whose skin hung on their bones |]
as if it were cracked brown paper. They did some clever |
“ passes,” swallowed and spat out fire, produced an en- jj
chanted inexhaustible water vessel, walked on wooden
pattens held on by the action of the feet making a vacuum |<
—in fact the withered, vivacious old juggler and his ragged |(
old confederate performed all the orthodox tricks of their ij
confraternity. Where did he get the cobras which he pro- [i
duced suddenly out of two baskets which had been turned |
over, inside out, in our presence ? It was not the drumming jj
of his friend or the playing on the dry gourd which drew H
1he reptiles out of coyer. A little thrill went through the j!
spectators as the rdptiles raised their flaming eyes and ij
hooded crests, hissing fiercely, reared on end as if to strike i
the garrulous charmer. Dr. Fayrer opened the jaws of the ij
larger with a stick while the man held it, and showed the ij
Prince where the fangs were not. The snakes danced to 1
the music of a gourd drum, but it was with rage and fear, ij
not with pleasure. Meantime a mango under the dirty cloth ij
was growing, and in an interval of snake work, the old fellow ji
dashed at the latter and exposed a fresh bright green mango fj
tree some eighteen inches high in the ground, where he had J
apparently only put in a mango seed. Expressions of |i
wonder followed; then the cloth was thrown over the tree ij
and another of the famous legendary legerdemain feats was jj
executed. A shallow basket about 18in. high and 3ft. long, ji
with a cover, wTas placed before the Prince. It was plain ij
there was no deceit. It was a basket and nothing more or ij
less, and it was put on the bare earth before our eyes. At i
a call there came out from the group of natives near at jj
hand a lad of 12 or so, slight of figure and pleasant of face, ij
with not an article of dress save his loin cloth and a dirty j
turban. Him the old man, chattering the while, bound hand j
and foot a la Brothers Anyone in twine. Then a sack, made of j
strong netting, was produced, and the old fellow slipped it j
over the lad, whom he squeezed down on his haunches so j
that he could tie the cords securely over his head, and lift j
him from the ground to prove how secure he was. He j
seemed to use great force to put the lad into the basket, j
and to have much difficulty in fitting the lid on the top of j
him. When that was done the music was renewed by one, j
and the other juggler began to talk to his basket. Presently jj
the lid was agitated, and the cord and net were jerked out jj
and fell on the ground. Then the juggler ran at the basket j
in a fury, jumped on the top, crushed in the lid, stamped on j
it, took a stick and drove it with force through the wicker i(
work. The basket was empty! Then there came a voice j
as of the lad who had been inside, and lo, there was just jj
such a youth upon one of the trees. It was certainly a very j
clever trick and very well done with the most simple j
adjuncts. The mango tree when next uncovered appeared jj
hung with tiny fruit.—The Times, Dec. 28th. 1
WHAT IS MAGIC?
Recently a few American inquirers into Spiritualism
have floated some rumours that a portion of the modern
psychological phenomena are due to magic, but they have
given no exact information what magic may be, nor clearly
detailed a single experiment which it is possible to repeat.
Notwithstanding the absence of any published evidence in
support of their position, the “ occultists,” as they are
called, have been enabled by the press to make quite a
little breeze among Spiritualists in tlie United States, and
have formed themselves into a “ Theosophical Society,”
under the presidency of Colonel Olcott, with offices at the
Mott Memorial Hall, 64, Madison Avenue, New York.
Madame H. P. Blavatsky, a Russian lady, is the recording
secretarjL The object of the society, as set forth in its
preamble, is “ to obtain knowledge of the nature and attri¬
butes of the Supreme Power, and of the higher spirits, by
the aid of physical processes.”
The inaugural audress of the President says of the mem¬
bers of the Theosophical Society:—“ We cannot, of course,
include ourselves among the number of American Spirit¬
ualists who implicitly accept all the genuine phenomena to
be produced by disembodied spirits; for while some of us
unreservedly believe in the ocpasional return of human
spirits, and in the existence of true mediums, others discredit
both. Moreover, of the believers, some not only admit the
possibility of occult forces of nature being directed, con¬
sciously or unconsciously, by the human will, for the produc¬
tion of startling results, but also recognise in most of the
physical phenomena called spiritual the agency of elemen¬
tary spirits, who often falsely personate persons not com¬
muning with the circles, answer the thoughts which lie
visible to them
‘ As clear
As pebbles within brooks appear,’
and echo and respond to every fanciful vagary which agitates
the questioner’s mind.”
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS AMONG THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.
Colonel Olcott further said :—u Spiritualism proper was
rife at Rome in the time of Ammianus Marcellinus, who
tells us that in the days of the Emperor Yalens (a.d. 371)
some Greeks, wishing to form a society of theurgists, were
brought to trial for attempting to ascertain, through magical
arts, who should succeed to the throne. They employed a
small table, shaped like a tripod, which was produced in
court, and, upon being put to the torture, they confessed as
follows: 4 We constructed this table of laurel-wood under
solemn auspices. Having duly consecrated it, by pro¬
nouncing over it prayers as ordered in the treatises which
we stole from a grand priest at Delphi, and by the use of
mesmeric manipulations, we succeeded in making it deliver
oracles.’ Over the table hung suspended from the ceiling a
large bronze ring, which swung hither and thither, and,
striking the letters cut in the periphery of the table-top,
gave lengthy communications. Yalens hated Theodoras, a
man of virtue, and as the swinging ring spelt out the letters
T-h-e-o-d and stopped, the Emperor, to make sure that the
object of his displeasure should not occupy the throne, had
him put to death : but the murder proved a useless precau¬
tion, for Theodomx^ succeeded to the purple, and the prog¬
nostication of the table turned out correct.
“ There is this difference between the modern Spiritual¬
istic phenomena and the effects produced by the theurgists,
that whereas no reliance can apparently be placed upon the
spontaneous communications of the former, without corrobo¬
ration, the latter cannot be untruthful, since the adepts will
not permit unprogressed spirits to approach or speak.”
PROMISED EXPERIMENTS IN MAGIC.
The presidential address contains nothing approaching the
practical until its closing paragraphs are reached; in these
much responsibility is thrown upon a Mr. Felt, who promises
to raise spirits by magical arts. Would it not have been
better had the promotors of the new organisation seen the
experiments first, and formed their Association afterwards,
for if Mr. Felt fails to raise spirits by the use of odoriferous
chemical substances, what will be the fate of the Theosophical
Society ?
The following are the presidential statements about Mr.
Felt:—
“ Every one who has studied mesmerism is aware that
no satisfactory results can be attained without perfect accord
among those engaged in the experiment, or standing near by
as spectators. These things being so, how can we expect
that, as a society, we can have any very remarkable illus¬
trations of the control of the adept theurgist over the
subtle powers of nature ?
“ But here is where Mr. Felt’s alleged discoveries will
come into play. Without claiming to be a theurgist, a
mesmerist, or a Spiritualist, our Yice-President promises,
by simple chemical appliances, to exhibit to us, as he has to
others before, the races of beings which, invisible to our
eyes, people the elements. Think for a moment of this
astounding claim! Fancy the consequences of the practical
demonstration of its truth, for which Mr. Felt is now pre¬
paring the requisite apparatus ! What will the Church say
of a whole world of beings within her territory, but without
her jurisdiction? What will the Academy say of this
crushing proof of an unseen universe given by the most
unimaginative of its sciences? What will the Positivists
say, who have been prating of the impossibility of there
being any entity which cannot be weighed in scales, filtered
Jan. 7, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 5
through funnels, tested with litmus, or carved with a
scalpel ? What will the Spiritualists say, when through the
column of saturated vapour flit the dreadful shapes of beings
whom, in their blindness, they have in a thousand cases
revered and babbled to as the returning shades of their
relatives and friends ? Alas ! poor Spiritualists—editors
and correspondents—who have made themselves jocund over
my impudence and apostasy. Alas! sleek scientists, over¬
swollen with the wind of popular applause! The day of
reckoning is close at hand, and the name of the Theosophical
Society will, if Mr. Felt’s experiments result favourably,
hold its place in history as that of the body which first
exhibited the ( Elementary Spirits ’ in this nineteenth cen¬
tury of conceit and infidelity, even if it be never mentioned
for any other reason.”
In consequence of the rumours floated in America that
ancient magic had some foundation of fact, a friend of ours
examined some of the rich collection of ancient books on
magic in the British Museum, but could find nothing definite
of any value, or tending to throw light upon the phenomena
of modern Spiritualism.
An old proverb speaks of—
Much crie and little woo’
As the de’il said when he sheared the soo.
Let us hope that after so much crying on this subject
from the other side of the Atlantic, something real may
reach these shores shortly in the shape of wool, but should
the Theosophical Society find itself in a precarious condition,
in consequence of being unable to prove that its assertions
have any foundation in experimental facts, it might still do
good work in Spiritualism, by undertaking historical research
for the purpose of unveiling the many examples of misunder¬
stood mediumship in the past, as we once did in the matter
of the psychological experiences of Dr. Dee—the reputed
astrologer of the days of Queen Elizabeth—and his medium
Kelley. The Spiritual Scientist, of Boston, is about to
publish the life of Cornelius Agrippa,"as viewed by the light
of modern Spiritualism, and his career no doubt presents
many points of interest to Spiritualists. Several of the
original necromantic books WTitten by Cornelius Agrippa are
in the British Museum Library, so are easily accessible.
The mediumship of the Holy Maid of Kent should also be
examined by the light of present experience. The Theo¬
sophical Society might do much good by executing work of
this kind, for no private individuals in this country have
leisure enough to undertake it at present.
SPIRITUALISM IN SOUTH AFRICA.
The Eastern Star of November 23rd, published, in Capetown,
contains a long article on “ Modern Spiritualism,” setting forth that a
hall in connection with Spiritualism has been recently opened in that
place, and that all the English periodicals on the subject are regularly
purchased and read. There is no organised society of Spiritualists in
Capetown, the Spiritualists there being as yet too few in number and
divergent in ideas to be able to settle down into harmonious groups.
A writer in the Eastern Star, who calls himself “ Sam Sly,” in
speaking of the commercial aspect of certain forms of mediumship, tells
the following story of an American Jonah:—
“It is stated that when Jonah took up his lodgings in the whale’s
belly, he wrote home to his father to come down immediately, as he had
discovered a splendid opening for the oil business. The next day, how¬
ever, he telegraphed to the old gentleman as follows:—‘ Father, don’t
come, I’m badly sucked in. Plenty of oil, but no market. The
concern is likely to chuck me up.’ ”
The same writer says:—
“ Have you listened to the tappings,
Or the strange mysterious clappings;
Have you ever heard the rappings
That are going on in town ?
How the deuce it is they do it,
Where or what the clue is to it
No one knows, or can see through it;
But its done, I’ll bet a crown.”
TAKING CASTS OF MATERIALISED SPIRIT HANDS.
Professor Denton, of Massachusetts, who devised this process, has
for some time past been getting excellent results with it, which he has
given to the world in the Banner of Light. Although he has described
the process—and it is simple enough when one has once tried it—still
our readers may possibly thank us for the following detailed directions
for taking casts of fleshly hands. Put half a pound of paraffin, broken
small, into a ten-pound stone jar, not narrowed at the mouth, fill tip
nearly to the top with boiling water, and stir. The paraffin, which is a
wax-fike substance, will soon melt, floating like oil on the surface of
the water. Allow the temperature to fall to about 140°, grease the
Ki hand carefully with oil, and dip it to the bottom of the jar three or four
\)\ times, with a pause between each dip, after which it will be found
j/j covered with a tolerably thick coating of paraffin, like a tight glove,
j u Hold the hand for a short time in cold water to harden the mould, prick
111 the points of the fingers to admit air, make a slit at the side by the
|,|1 thumb, remove the mould with care, and hold the cut edges of the slit
K| together, joining them with a little of the melted paraffin. (The spirits
|) | are said not to require the oiling or the pricking, or the slitting at the
|H side.) Now mix some plaster of Paris to a thick cream, fill the mould,
| (i and allow to stand say a quarter of an hour, till the plaster has set.
Hi Finally put the whole into a basin and cover it with boiling water,
j)j when the paraffin will melt off, floating to the top, and the cast may be
i | taken out. As there appear to be difficulties in procuring paraffin, we
Hj may add that it can be obtained from Messrs. Hopkins & Williams, 16,
j|; Cross-street, Hatton-garden. Several Spiritualists have been trying
n| the experiment, and we should like to hear of a copy of a model of a
Hi materialised spirit hand being made in the presence of responsible
| (: witnesses, under good test conditions. Such models are alleged to have
| i i been obtained in America.
THE ORACLE OF THE DEAD IN THESPROTIA.
BY ST. GEORGE W. STOCK, M.A. (OXON).
in Spiritualism, whether in ancient or modern times, does not always
Ki lead to pleasant results. We must take the good with the bad : both
i | i are instructive. In the following weird story from Herodotus, we find
Hi the ideas of the day reflected, as usual, in the message that professes to
| (I come from beyond the border. It is put into the mouth of Sosicles, a
Hi Corinthian, who diverted the Lacedaemonians from their intention of
i r i restoring Hippias to the tyranny of Athens, by recounting the horrors
Kj of despotism endured by the Corinthians themselves under Cypselus,
; [ | and his still more cruel son, Periander. Among other enormities the
ih speaker relates of the latter that, “ On one day he stripped all the wives
i(i of the Corinthians for the benefit of his own wife, Melissa. For when
Hi he had sent messengers to the Oracle of the Dead on the river Acheron
in in Thesprotia, about a deposit of property made by a stranger, Melissa
Hi had appeared, but said that she would give no sign, nor tell in what
11 i place the deposit lay, for she. was cold and naked, the clothes which he
; (! had buried along with her being of no service, as they had not been
Hi consumed by fire. (Then follows a “ test,” which must have been con-
i i vincing enough to the person implicated, but refers to a circumstance
j (i so revolting as to render it untranslatable.) When this message was
i j i reported to Periander, he instantly issued a proclamation that all the
: / i wives of the Corinthians should come out to the temple of Hera; they
i i imagined it was for a festival, and came in their gayest attire, but his
i (| guards were stationed ready, and he had them all stripped, bond and
i|! free alike. He then carried all the clothes to a pit, prayed to Melissa,
| i and burned them. When he had done this, he sent a second time to
i 11 the oracle, and the ghost of Melissa told him the place where he had
Hi stored the stranger’s deposit.”
j j Mrs. Hardings on Spiritualism in America.—Mrs. Hardinge-
Hj Britten, in the course of a recent letter to Mr. Harrison, says:—“ I
||| think the so-called ‘reformers’ of the day have found out how much
jy easier it is to pluck down than to build up. Spiritualism has been made
i i the stalking-horse for every kind of ‘ ism,’ and not a little infamy in this
||| country, and now it is just where it might be expected to be—in the
H| mire. I am still labouring hard for it—working against the stream,
however.”
HI Spiritualism in Islington.—Mr. and Mrs. Bullock are still carrying
\(\ on Sunday public services and week-day seances at the Hall, 19, Church-
i j street, Upper-street, Islington, London. Last Sunday Mr. Robson
m delivered a trance address there upon the words “Love one another.”
Hi After speaking of the love of friends and relatives upon earth, he pro-
i cl ceeded to argue that modern Spiritualism demonstrated that that love
Hi did not terminate at the close of life here below, and that spirits were
j/j afterwards interested in all that took place, whether for good or for evil,
i(j among those left behind. Mr. Lawrence, under the control of a spirit,
i) I then uttered a beautiful prayer, and afterwards proceeded to give some
|)j good moral advice. On Sunday next there will be a conference of
i(i Islington and other Spiritualists at Mr. Bullock’s hall.
i) j Seances in Italy.—Mr. Charles Blackburn, who recently returned to
iyi Manchester after his short visit to Italy, states that while he was at
i | i Rome he had a private seance with Signor Rondi and friends. There
j) j appeared to be plenty of power, but a want of control in the direction of
j(j it. An elderly gentleman was the medium. Mr. Blackburn placed a
I) | roll of paper on the table whilst the sitters were all holding hands; this
Hi roll tapped them on their heads, and a voice spoke to them through it,
\{\ though he thought that no voice had previously been heard at that
|)| circle. A small piece of wax candle was thrust into his mouth, and a
i (i copper coin of the time of the present Pope was brought to him as a
Hi present. A gentleman in the circle had a sovereign attached (o his
Hi watch-chain as a keepsake, it having been brought to him, he said, by
|li the spirits at a previous seance. The sitters said that things had often
Hi been brought to them and dropped before their eyes in the street, in
Hi broad daylight. Mr. Blackburn adds that when at Naples Signor
Hi Damiani was exceedingly courteous in showing him and two ladies the
Hj ruins of Pompeii and the surroundings of Naples, after which there
i) i was a seance at his house in the evening. A lady, a baroness, was
Hi entranced. There was a change of tone and articulation as each fresh
Hi spirit spoke through her, and she appeared occasionally to be in much:
j) ; pain, though he was afterwards informed that no real pain existed, and
Hi that when she came out of the trance she knew nothing of what had
H| transpired previously.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. , 1876.
6
ENLARGEMENT OF THE SPIRITUALIST. j
To-day, when The Spiritualist appears in a new and enlarged form,
to the great satisfaction, it is to be hoped, of everybody connected with
Spiritualism, it may not be. amiss to briefly review the past, and to
mention the circumstances under which it first came into existence, j1
In the year 1869 there was no newspaper connected with the Spiritual I (
movement in this country; nothing but monthly periodicals filled with j(
essays of a magazine character; shorthand or other reports of meetings I j
and records of the ordinary current events of the day were then j
almost entirely unknown. The consequence was that no reports were i (
published of the long series of Gower-street conferences then held in j f
London, at which psychological facts of the utmost value were made jj
known by Mrs. Hardinge, Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr. Luxmoore, and |(
others, and the speakers complained from the platform of the want of a I >
newspaper in the Spiritual movement. For these reasons The Spirit- j /
ualist was first published as a fortnightly journal, with the announce- [(
ment in the first leading article of its first number, that it would be j)
brought out weekly as soon as such a course was considered to be j(
reasonable. The following is an extract from that article:—
“Spiritualism in England has long been represented by three j;
periodicals, all published monthly, namely, The Spiritual Magazine, j (
Human Nature, and Daybreak. The Spiritual Magazine was first j (j
published in January, 1800, Human Nature in April, 1867, and-Day- !|!
break in June, 1868. The Spiritualist, issued for the first time this day, |l
is not started for the purpose of competing with the three journals just j(j
mentioned, but is intended to occupy new ground, and to meet a want j)j
as yet unsupplied. At the Gower-street conferences last winter !(!
several of the speakers mentioned the want of reports and records of nj
public meetings connected with Spiritualism, and one chief object of j)|
this new journal is to chronicle the proceedings of such assemblies, i\|
Another feature of The Spiritualist will be its scientific character. . . |)|
At first this journal will be published fortnightly, to ‘ feel the ground,’ In
before its transformation into a weekly paper—a step which, together | u
with other improvements, is likely to be taken before long, should all j | ]
go well.”' ' .!,ti ij(l
From the first day The Spiritualist appeared, shorthand and other j | j
reports of Spiritual meetings were given regularly. In the following j) |
year, 1870, The Medium was first published, adopting much of the pro- j(j
gramme we had laid down, and calling upon the public from that time Hj
to the present to pay the enormous cost of its actions. As we believed j) i
it to be injurious to the Spiritual movement that it should have to pay in
vast sums to enable one piece of literature to be sold under a fair price, m
we kept aloof from the subscription system for many years, and stood i)j
single-handed until recently against the floods of Spiritualists’capital, jh
Something more than money being necessary to establish a journal, the nj
cixcvl&iion oi The Spiritualist has continued to increase from the first. S/j
It is the chief organ of intelligent English Spiritualists, and all the j(
more educated workers connected with the movement in this country j j |
confine their contributions almost exclusively to its columns. Seeing, l)|
then, that the heart, head, and backbone of the movement are working j(j
in harmony with us. that the circulation of the journal is increasing jlj
rapidly, and that T'he Spiritualist has become an international organ l)j
of communication between the chief intellects connected with our move- ju
ment,—there is every reason to be thankful to the many-friends who in jlj
various ways have aided in the production of such results.
A LETTER FROM MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN.
The following letter has been received by the Secretary to the Na- Kj
tional Association of Spiritualists:— I i
Marquette, Lake Superior, ! (j
December 17th, 1875. in
Deau Miss Kisltngbuby,—Your kind note of November 25th, ad- jSj
dressed to New York, reached me yesterday in this somewhat remote j)j
but flourishing little town of 7,000 or 8,000 inhabitants, situated on the ju
southern shore of Lake Superior, where I am spending part of the win- j>i
ter w'ith my youngest son, Ernest Dale Owen, junior partner in the j)j
leading law firm here—Ball, Black, and Owen.
Marquette lies two degrees only south of the northern boundary of j|:
the United States, so that we are living amid snow and ice, which will j«
probably not melt till next April, the thermometer occasionally falling j(j
to 35 degrees below zero. It stands at zero to-day.
Ihm not sure that you have seen the letters on the within printed ju
slip.* I suffered from the same cause that led to your own late indis- Kj
position—overwork. For two years and a half previous to the illness j)j
therein alluded to (in May last), I had been a sufferer from dyspepsia, ju
causing weakness and depression. These, by rest, water-cure, and a Kj
milk diet, have been entirely removed, and I am nowin excellent j/j
health, better than I have been for five years past. I still, however, re- ju
frain from serious wrork, endeavouring to bring up heavy arrears of jjj
correspondence; for kind letters of sympathy and congratulation have l)j
poured in upon me during the last two months. * ’ j u
A few days since I had a letter from an amiable and cultivated lady— K j
an intimate and valued friend of mine—who writes me as follows :— j)j
“My sister and I had quite an interesting seance while in Boston, at jsi
a Mrs. Wilde’s in Bedford-street. Did you ever go to see her ? If not, j>j
we had a very curious test of Spiritualism. ‘Violet’ came to us, an- j)j
nouncing herself by name, and spoke about you, saying that she acted ju
as your guardian spirit. She added that a band of loving spirit-friends j/j-
were watching over you, to protect you from harm; and that it was ju
through their influence that your recent mental troubles were brought ju
about. Violet said further that you had overtaxed your strength, both j)j
mentally and physically, and therefore they had sent this temporary ju
torpor of the brain to give you a chance of recuperating your exhausted j jj
| i’fi;.' letter referred to has been publ-shed in The Syiritualist, Oct. 29th, No. 166, i):
11 energies. She told us, also (what we had already heard from yourself),
jj that you were feeling stronger than you had done for many years,
j and that your recent illness would certainly prolong your life,
j “ Wasn’titoddtbat Violet should come to us ? We concluded that you
}j had held various seances at Mrs. Wilde’s, and that in consequence,
[| it was not the first time that the medium had been controlled by your
,j guardian spirit.”
j In connection with the above remarkable extracts, I have to say—
jj “ That I have not only never held a seance with Mrs. Wilde, but I
j have never seen her, nor heard of her. She may have read in the
j Debatable Land about Violet; but even that is unlikely. I have
seldom found a medium who had read that book, or, indeed, who was
in the habit of reading spiritual works. Nor had she any clue what¬
ever to the fact that the ladies knew me, still less that they were my in¬
timate friends; they live in New York, and were but on a casual visit to
Bosten.
Under the circumstances, is it reasonable to doubt that it was Violet
j herself who thus unexpectedly volunteered a communication, knowing
the friendship that subsisted between the ladies and myself ? Add to
this, that I had myself lately become convinced that everything which
has happened to me during this year has been spiritually overruled for
my good, and that I have still before me, ere I go, work more or less
important to perform.
A public expression of congratulation by your Council, however grati¬
fying, is unnecessary to convince me of their sincere sympathy. I beg
you to assure them of this, and that you will believe me, faithfully your
friend, Robert Dale Owen.
Miss Kislingbury.
Mr,. George Farmer, formerly editor of the Pioneer of Progress,
writes:—“I leave Southampton on January 2nd, 1876, by the Royal
Mail steamer for the West Indies, proceeding thence to the United
States, and probably visiting Australia and India on my way back to
England. I shall be absent about six months.”
Spiritualism in Frankfort.—Dr. S. T. Stein is about to introduce
the subject of Spiritual phenomena at a meeting of a scientific society
at Frankfort, and has written to the secretary of the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists for information about the Spiritual movement in
England.
Spiritualistic Conversazione and Ball.—Last Wednesday night a
conversazione and ball in connection with the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism was held at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-
street, Regent-street, London, under the presidency of Mr. Algernon
Joy, Member of the Institution of Civil Engineers. As the evening
advanced the attendance became large, until the hall was well filled by
a gay and brilliant assemblage of friends. Mr. Joy opened the pro¬
ceedings in the early part of the evening by stating that the Honorary
Secretary had informed him that at the next general meeting the
Council of the Dalston Society would recommend that their organisa¬
tion should take steps to ally itself with the National Association of
Spiritualists; he was glad to hear it, and hoped that plenty of members
would be present to vote. The following songs, pieces of music, and
recitations were then given: Pianoforte Solo, Miss Cook; “ The Old
Coaching Days,” Mr. E. Parkinson Ashton; “ A Little Lock of Hair,”
Miss Matilda Lowry (sung with much sweetness); Flute Solo, Mr.
Herbert J. Derham; “The Chinaman” (sung in character), Mr. G.
Sexton, jun.; “ The Three Preachers,” Miss Sexton; Violin Solo, Mr.
J. A. Bear; “ Old Foozle in Paris,” Mr. A. G. Ogan ; “Tell Me, my
Heart,” Miss Spooner; “Damon and Pythias,” Mr. Frederick Sexton;
Pianoforte Solo, Madame Ourry; “ The Children’s Victory,” Miss
Sexton; “Lady Jane Ingoldsby,” Mr. W. H. Harrison; Flute Duett,
Messrs. H. G. and S. Derham ; “ Outward Bound,” Mr. J. J. Morse ;
and “ The School (-Bored) Teacher,” Mr. Ogan. At ten o’clock the
dancing began, and did not end until an early hour yesterday morning.
The memorial to Marshal MacMahon on behalf of M. Leymarie was
largely signed during the evening.
Spirit People.—The little book Spirit People has been largely
reviewed by daily and other newspapers, and all but two have spoken
well of it, which is a favourable token considering the unpopularity
of the subject matter. Spiritualists say, as a rule, that it is a book oi
special use to give away to persons unacquainted with Spiritualism.
The following review of the little work is from the Sussex Daily News
(Brighton) of December 20th last:—“ Spirit People (38, Great Russell-
street) is the first of a series of little works to be published under the
title of the Spiritualist Library, by Mr. W. H. Harrison, the founder
and editor of The Spiritualist, and one of the most prominent of the
literary men who have of late years become associated with the move¬
ment. It consists of a paper read by the author before the Dalston
' Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, and contains, he asserts,
‘ a scientifically accurate description of manifestations recently produced
by spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the author and other
observers in London.’ There is nothing more sensational in these mani¬
festations than the spiritualistic organs record every week, but here we
have the satisfaction of scientific precaution and high personal authority.
Many of the feats are undoubtedly no more wonderful than ‘ Katie
King’ is said to have produced, but they are performed under the
auspices of so many different mediums and such a variety of circum¬
stances that no supposition of fraud can be deemed a satisfactory
explanation. Every fresh publication of this sort that comes under our
notice only excites our wonder at the apathy of science to what is
either a most marvellous discovery or a no less marvellous delusion. The
position of those who object on religious grounds to any attempt
to hold converse with the unseen world, whether we may regard such
a voluntary bondage as desirable or not, is perfectly intelligible; but that
science should deem these phenomena beneath its attention is, to us, a
subject of no less surprise than regret.”
Jan. 7, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST. 7.
foelvi).
GONE HOME!
The following piece of spirit-poetry is extracted from Miss Lizzie Doten’s
Poems of Progress, given through her own mediumship :—
They called her from the better land,
And one bright spirit led the way ;
She saw the angel’s beckoning hand,
And felt she could no longer stay.
0! white-robed Peace! thy gentle cross
Gave to her trusting heart no pain,
And that which is our earthly loss,
Is unto her eternal gain.
“ God is a spirit ”—we can trust
That she has left earth’s shadows dim,
And laid aside her earthly dust.
To grow in likeness unto Him.
“ God is a spirit,” “God is love ”—
And closely folded to His breast,
Her spirit, like a tender dove,
Shall in His love securely rest.
0! it was meet that flower-wreathed spring,
With forms of living beauty rife,
Should see the perfect blossoming
Of this bright spirit into life.
The flowers will bloom upon her grave,
The holy stars look down at night:
But where bright palms immortal wave,
She will rejoice in cloudless light.
0! sweeter than the breath of flowers,
Or dews that summer roses weep ;
Deep in these loving hearts of ours
Her blessed memory we will keep.
Bright spirit, let thy light be given,
With tender and celestial ray,
Beaming like some pure star from heaven,
To guide us in our earthly way.
Clad in thine immortality,
E’en now we hear thee joyful sing—
“ 0 grave, where is thy victory,
0 death, where is thy sting! ”
Pass on, sweet spirit, to increase
In every bright, celestial grace,
^ Till in the land of love and peace,
We meet thee, dear one, face to face.
^orreaponueuce.
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.']
A REMARKABLE PHOTOGRAPHIC EFFECT.
Sir,—The Italian scientific review II Progresso, published at Turin,
contains in the number for December, 1875, a short passage which
ought to be of interest to all Spiritualists who are giving attention to
spirit-photography. The following is the paragraph :—
“ Photography applied to Medicine.—Dr. Altzman, a professor at
the University of Vienna, recently read a paper before the Medical
Society on the uses of photography in medical studies. Among other
observations, he mentions one which rests on the authority of Dr.
Vogel, to the effect that an eruption of variole (small pox) can be
detected by photography twenty-four hours before its appearance.
Although at this stage of the malady nething is visible on the skin,
the negative plate shows spots on the face of the patient exactly
similar to those of vari&le, and twenty-four hours later the eruption
becomes apparent.”
What are the rays of the spectrum which transmit these images ?
What part is played by the heat which is pathologically developed in
small pox? Are there not in cases like the above-mentioned, particular
irradiations having relation to physiological forces at present unknown ?
Leaving these questions to the consideration of men of science, and
hoping that in England the experiments of Dr. Vogel will be repeated,
I will conclude with the request that you be so kind as to publish this
letter in your journal. 0. Constant.
Milan, Via Morone, 4. Dec. 20th, 1875.
[Sulphate of quinine painted over white paper is invisible to the eye, yet
will give a dark image when photographed in the camera, because of its
fluorescent properties. If Dr. Vogel, who is a good authority, is right as to
his facts, the photographic results are probably due merely to fluorescence of
the skin at places; if so, the patient would appeared to be covered with lumi¬
nous stars were he placed in a strong violet light.—Ed.]
CLAIRVOYANCE.
il Miracles are natural phenomena, which exceed human powers of comprehension.”—
Spinoza.
Sir,—The following cases of clairvoyance are from a perfectly
reliable source, and I will give them in as few words as possible.
Some few years ago a gentleman in a theatre in London turned to
his companion and said—“ Good God ! My house is on fire! We
must go at once.” They had twenty-six miles to go, and on arriving at
the park gates, sure enough there was the mansion all in flames.
Curious to relate, the house was built on the site of an ancient monastery,
and there was an old tradition to the effect that if any building should
be erected on the place, and the building finished, it would be
burnt down; more curious still to recount, the house has been three
times burnt down, and to cheat fate, the present house, though occupied,
has been left unfinished, so far as to attics being unoccupied and left
without flooring or ceilings. It is believed that formerly there was an
underground passage from the monastery to the abbey of , artfl
even the present building is declared to be haunted, as the others were. ’
The occupant, a clergyman, affirms that he often hears footsteps in the'
| passage, passing and repassing his library door, and that on looking
| out, he sees a figure passing before him, but that it always disappears
| before he can come up to it. The other case relates to a lady in the
j! same family, who, in her sleep, saw her brother, a sailor, go up to the
11 mast-head in bad weather, and fall into the sea, where he was drowned.
'! This she related to the family, firmly persuaded of the reality of her
, vision. The ship was some hundreds of miles away, but in due course
|| came a letter to the father relating the sad occurrence just as seen in the
'| dream, and when the father went to his daughter to break the terrible
J news, the daughter said at once : “ Father, you need not speak, I saw
ij the whole, and more clearly than any letter can describe it.”
'I Now the question arises in respect to this marvellous influence
[j from a distance, whether in general it is an actual vision, or real and
| direct perception of the event by “ the mind’s eye” of the seer; or
1 whether it is brain sympathy with those who are actual witnesses of
! the fact—as, for instance, from some one of the alarmed minds
witnessing the fire. Or, in the other case, from those on board the ship,
| or from the falling of the drowning brother himself. That it is not
always brain sympathy with the person en rapport we have innumer¬
able instances to show; but when we come to analyse and classify facts,
| the question of the different causes must be taken into account.
The case of the fire reminds one of the instance of Swedenborg, at
Gottenberg, having been aware of the fire breaking out in Stockholm,
I three hundred miles off—a case that was fully investigated by Emanuel
Kant, the philosopher, who ended in having no doubt whatever as to
| the truth of the report. Why should the philosopher “ of pure reason ”
be doubted, but that the philosophy of mechanical materialism is the
order of the day.
| The gentleman, a colonel in the army, who related the above cases
to me as having occurred in his own family, said: “ What I tell you is
perfectly true and known to all our family; but I do not pretend to
understand it. It seems to me as though God sent these things on
purpose to puzzle us and to humiliate our intellectual and spiritual
pride.” But I suspect that we shall now begin to have a very different
| view of such occurrences, one regarding them more from a spiritual point
of view, another hoping rather to find fresh light cast upon the science
of man and mind, and both perhaps right. Henry. G. Atkinson.
Boulogne-inr-Mer.
THE CONFERENCE PAPERS.
Sir,—Permit me to inquire whether the object of the annual National
Conference is to read papers for the information of Spiritualists or out¬
siders ? In contributing a paper to the meeting, I hardly knew whether
it was desirable to treat of topics and arguments well known to
Spiritualists, or such as would be new to the public. It seems from the
newspaper reports that appeared in the Manchester papers, that the
whole press of the country can be got at through these conferences,
since they notice these gatherings, where lectures would be entirely
ignored.
This fact suggests to me the desirability of holding two conferences
per annum, and letting it be expressly understood that the papers are to
appeal to a comparatively ignorant public, and should therefore treat of
those matters the public would most like to know of. For example, the
popular ideas are, (1) that Spiritualism is an insignificant movement;
(2) that it is of no practical use; (3) that it is unscriptural, and therefore
the work of the devil; and (4) that it is not supported by proven facts.
Here, then, we have a number of popular delusions to combat; to which
end I think the conference papers should be directed, rather than to ques¬
tions of a technical nature, interesting only to mediums and Spiritualists.
I am not objecting to any papers recently read, but merely suggesting
what should be our line of action for the future. Fred, A. Binney.
Manchester.
A PRACTICAL STEP.
Sir,—I read with great satisfaction the suggestion to subscribers to
the enlarged Spiritualist, to order two copies for the future, for I had
i previously thought such a step to be highly desirable, and had, in fact,
i penned a letter on that subject beforehand. The beneficial result would
i be, no doubt, out of proportion to the small outlay ; and in the mean-
| time, the best testimonial that could be offered to our able editor by all
Spiritualists as a body. C. Reimers.
Manchester, Dec. 19th, 1875.
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—There has during the past few months been a great stir made
|| amongst a certain section of Spiritualists with regard to healing medium-
| ship, and the claims of various American mediums have been brought
ij strongly under public notice. At the same time a quiet, modest,
\\ unassuming medium, who has for many years been doing a useful work
h amongst us, and whose healing mediumship is of the very highest order,
11 has remained unnoticed, and now, after having had considerable expe-
ij rience, I should much like through your columns to draw the attention
<[ of your readers to her; I allude to Mrs. Olive. With your permission
, | I will give briefly an account of my last illness, and hope to prove that
11 my admiration of Mrs. Olive’s mediumship is not ill-founded. Last
11 month, in an ill-advised moment, I went to Sidmouth, and had the
11 misfortune to take a violent chill, which speedily turned to a rheumatic
)\ attack, and afterwards to other disturbances not necessary to be named
'i here. I sent for the best doctor in the place, who, I have no doubt
!| honestly did his best for me; at any rate, I honestly swallowed many
ii bottles full of odious mixtures, but with the unpleasant result of getting
11 no better—indeed, if anything I got worse, for I certainly got weaker.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 7, 1876.
This went on for three weeks, till, feeling quite in despair over it, I wrote
to Mrs. Olive that she must come to the rescue. My letter was written
with great difficulty, for I was so weak the pen repeatedly dropped from
my fingers. That was on Sunday, the 19th inst. Mrs. Olive came the
following Wednesday, not being able to get away from her London
engagements before. To my horror the next day, Thursday, her spirit
control, Dr. Forbes, told me to pack up and leave Sidmouth on Friday,
and return to Bournemouth—he would give me the strength to do it.
He was as good as his word, and that tiresome cross-country journey
was actually accomplished. Mrs. Olive remained with me the next
three days, sitting three times each day for Dr. Forbes to come and
mesmerise me. One after another all my aches and pains departed, and
my strength returned so rapidly that on Monday, the 27th, I was able to
walk with her to the station, a distance of half-a-mile, and back without
undue fatigue. I confess I am astonished at the rapidity of my recovery,
for my constitution is of such low recuperative power when once upset
it takes me naturally a very long time to recover.. But this is not by
any means my only experience of the healing power the spirits exercise
through Mrs. Olive. I have trusted Dr. Forbes to bring me through
several attacks of acute inflammation—one of pneumonia and two or
three attacks of bronchitis. I have a suspicion there are very few
mediums who would like to undertake such cases.
There has been a good deal said in your journal lately of the un¬
reliability of spirit communications. I admit that it is but too true.;
but one spirit I have invariably found absolutely reliable in medical
matters, namely, my spirit friend Dr. Forbes; I have never known him
make a mistake or give wrong advice, and friends of mine who have
also consulted him always admit that his advice is useful and good, and
to the point.
I hope, sir, you may think my testimony to the reality and reliability
of Mrs. Olive’s healing mediumship worthy of a place in your columns,
for I should be much gratified if I may be permitted thus publicly to
acknowledge the great good I have received through her.
Frances Whitear.
Marathon, West Cliff, Bournemouth, 29th December, 1875.
MR. Herne’s SEANCE AT LIVERPOOL.
Sir,—In your report of “ Another Fiasco ” in Liverpool, you state
that Mr. Herne was found secured on either side by Mr. Shaw and the
stranger who first seized him. Instead of Mr. Shaw, insert John
Fraser. I am anxious that the correction should be made, because your
very able and respectable coadjutor in the propagation of Spiritualism
has given notice of legal proceedings. You also state “ that searching
investigations into the antecedents of some at least of the strangers and
others present will be made.” I trust the medium, Mr. Herne, and the
seance director, will be included amongst “the others.”
John Fraser.
1, Railway Cottages, Edge-hill, Liverpool, Jan. 3rd, 1876.
HELP FOR MRS. JACKSON.
Sir,—Since Hast wrote to you, the following sums have been sent me
in aid of Mrs. Jackson:—Sir Charles Isham, £\; Miss Ponder, £l;
Mr. A. Tod, £2; M. C., Glasgow, £1.
Mrs. Jackson desires me to return publicly her most grateful thanks
for the .timely aid that has been afforded her by the ladies and gentle¬
men named, some of whom are quite unknown to her.
I have further received the following list from Mrs. Everitt, which
she begs you also to insert:—Mr. W. P. Adshead, £1 Is.; Mrs. Hough¬
ton, Liverpool, 10s.; Mr. J. Lament, £10s.; Mrs. Lamont, 10s.
Emily Kislingbury.
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
WHERE SHALL THE NEXT SPIRITUALIST CONFERENCE BE HELD?
Sir,—I was reluctant—as a junior member of the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists—to question the riper opinions of age and experi¬
ence when the above matter came to the front in the discussions, yet I
may be allowed, perhaps, to suggest that Brighton would be the most
suitable place in preference to Newcastle, or any remote northern town
beyond Liverpool. The meetings might possibly retain their national
interest in such a centre as Liverpool; but to invite us so very far north
as Newcastle-on-Tyne would be, I think, to make the event rather a
“ local ” affair, for the simple reason that many members would not
travel such a long distance in the dreary month of November. An im¬
portant midland town, say Birmingham, would, perchance, successfully
meet the assemblage difficulty, and be a convenience to those from the
distant outer counties of England. Personally, I should advocate the
prior claims of London or Brighton. If publicity, such as the daily
press gave us last time, is likely to remove in any shape the misconcep¬
tions of popular prejudice, such widely circulated reports of our pro¬
ceedings could not take place in distant provincial towns.
John T. Markxey.
3, Crawthorne-street, Peterboro’.
SEANCE WITH THE BAMFORD BOYS AT MACCLESFIELD.
Sir,—I write to acquaint you with the results of a sitting we recently
had with the above-mentioned mediums.
The circle consisted of myself, three friends (sceptics), Mr. Bamford,
and the two boys. The seance was conducted in full gaslight, sitting
round a small table.
First the bell was placed in the middle of the bottom of an open
basket; and the latter was then pushed under the table, and when, all
were at least one foot from any portion of the table, the bell was rung
violently for some time.
"We next enclosed a sheet of clean white paper within the pages of a
book, -which was closely examined by all of us previously. The book
was then tied twice round with string, and a piece of pencil placed be¬
neath the string. We took particular notice of the pages which en¬
closed the paper. The book was then held by the medium with one
hand, the other being in view. We shortly heard the pencil writing,
and upon producing the book we untied the string and took out the
paper. Upon the inside of the sheet of paper was written a short
message to one of the circle. Everything was found to be precisely
the same as when given to the medium.
We next tied the medium d la Lottie Fowler; that is, we tied the
hands behind him securely, and placed him in a bag, with drawing
tapes at the top. We tied these tapes round his neck, and then tied
him to the chair with other tapes; this done, we placed him in a recess
in one corner of the room, curtained off, to form a cabinet. The bell
and tambourine were placed on his knees, and before the curtains could
be drawn together they were both playing at once. The same occurred
with the accordion and fiddle, the latter being made to stand straight up.
Upon examination the medium was found to be exactly as he was
originally tied.
In conclusion, I can only -say that my friends came away fully con¬
vinced of the reality of the phenomena of Spiritualism. I would re¬
commend Spiritualists in the district to have a sitting with these
youthful mediums. Archibald Proctor.
19, Elsworth-street, Cheetham Hill-road, Manchester.
[The publication of the above letter has been delayed somewhat from want
of space.—Ed.]
]'(j ALLEGED INFLUENCE OF WILL-POWER AT SEANCES.
Sir,—In illustration of the action of will-power, I wish to describe a
| (j sitting I once had with Messrs. Bastian and Taylor.
m. The sitters, some sixteen or eighteen, formed a circle and joined
f /j hands. The medium (Bastian) sat in the centre of the circle, and, the
|(i gas being put out, commenced clapping his hands to indicate his where-
]|| abouts. The sitters were touched frequently, judging by their remarks;
j, j a large musical box was repeatedly wound up and carried playing
|(! about the room; and a finger, or what felt like one, just rested on the
j j | back of my hand.
||| The gas having been lighted, the sitters were arranged in two rows
p facing the folding-doors communicating with the next room, and a
j (j black cloth was hung across the aperture, behind which the medium
| (j • retired. A lamp was then lighted, and the gas being put out, there was
i | j sufficient light in the room for me to recognise the sitters.
Unable to resist the opportunity to test my will-power, I “ willed ”
j(| that the expected materialised spirit should hasten his appearance, and
j i to my annoyance a lady in front of me, and slightly on my right, began
|| to twitch, and remarked that the spirits would soon appear, as she felt
j.(| the “influence.” I stopped “willing,” and she ceased twitching,
p After waiting a few minutes I began to “ will ” again, and with the
I )j same result. For the remainder of the sitting I sat passive. No spirits
ijj showed themselves, and the seance terminated. Mr. Taylor attributed
i >! the absence of the spirits to the damp weather, and to Mr. Bastian not
i }j being very well.
:| j| A gentleman who sat in front of me, and upon whose shoulder (to
|>i complete the circle) my hand was placed, gravely informed me after the
| (i seance that I was mediumistic, giving as a reason that each time Mrs.
j (j felt the influence my hand trembled. He was right as to the fact,
: but as far out in his conclusion as the sitter on my left hand, at the
I (i seance described in my last letter, who asked me whether I was cold
nj because I trembled, and shortly afterwards if I felt frightened—very
I (j much to my amusement. Common Sense.
!(!* Sept. 7,1875.
ii! [We have often tried to influence manifestations at seances by -will-power,
i) i hut without success.—Ed.]
MRS. TAPPAN ON DEAN STANLEY.
m Sir.—I have read a report of an inspirational address given by Mrs.
i(j C. L. Y. Tappan, at Chicago, on the 14th of last November. In it is
i jj this sentence:—“ Dean Stanley, in Westminster Abbey, has preached a
ijj sermon upon the future life, in which he said, ‘If the manifestations
I recently occurring, and now known to the world, are true, they present a
j knowledge of the future state, which, I think, the Deity intended us to
j learn long ago.’ ”
Dean Stanley informs me that there is]“ not a shadow of foundation
j for any part of that statement.” Hopeful.
I|f THE SPIRITUALITY OF BUDDHISM.
j < j Sir,—The interesting account which has appeared in your valuable
j | j paper, of the spiritual manifestations by Fakirs in various parts of India,
j j j is corroborated by the records of Buddha and the devotional practices
j (j of the followers of his faith. The Buddhists exceed in number any other
ft known religious community, their aggregate in India, China, and Japan,
j) I amounting to three hundred millions of people, and the springs of religious
j(j action, the faith, the feelings and the effects of the creed of such a host,
j j j are surely not matters to be lightly looked at, nor their doings summarily
j)j disposed of as “Heathen” worship. The way in which Buddhist
j(j followers arrived at the knowledge of truth in spiritual matters was by
jjj a life of the purest and most self-denying kind. Their days were passed
i/j in meditation upon life, and how to enable them to purify the lives of
ijj others; they must first by deep thought, banishment of all pleasures of
jjj sense, and by ascetic and frugal food, render their minds and bodies fit
j j i for spiritual manifestations.
j j j In a lecture on Buddhism by the Rev. S. Beal, delivered before the
j/j Plymouth Athenaeum in September, 1874, and reprinted in the Oriental
ijj newspaper, that accomplished scholar thus describes the relation that
ijj the Buddhist religion has to what we call “ Spiritualism.”
ijj “In its development as a system Buddhism is divided into three dis-
;jj tinct periods. First, the little or imperfect vehicle, or mode of deliver-
Jan. 7, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST.
9
ance. This is generally called the Hinayana. It concerns itself more
with practical rules of morality than with technical definitions. The
aim, however, is the same, viz., by the persistent use of rules adapted
for the purpose, to reach a condition of Bodhi, i.e., spiritual freedom or
deliverance from the bonds of the flesh. In explanation of this condition
of Bodhi, we remark that Buddhism taught the instability and un¬
reality of the objects of sense, and opposed to this the existence, the
everlasting existence of a force—the only real existence in the world.
This is psychic force. It is in the possession of this, or rather, by being
possessed by this, that true deliverance is found. The method by which
this is gained, or obtained, is one of bodily asceticism. By reducing, so to
speak, the expenditure of vital or frictional force to a minimum, a man
may bring himself into the sphere of this all-pervading energy and
become more or less one with it.
“ The effects of this new relationship are, first, in reference to the
body a remarkable power of levitation, being able to sit in the air with¬
out support, or even pass unaided from one spot to another. Second,
a self-luminous appearance, especially from the head and the fingers.
Third, a mental condition approaching more or less nearly to omni¬
science. In the case of Buddha all these effects followed in the
highest degree, because he had obtained complete deliverance. He put
himself perfectly “ en rapport ’’ with this force, and was one with it.
Hence he taught that it was not by instruction, or even inspiration, that
he had gained his condition of perfection, but by intuition, i.e., that he
had passed into the sphere of knowledge, a,nd was now one with it.”
Mr. Beal then cites from Mr. Elphinstone’s History of India, how
the Yogis or Ascetics there still claim this power of levitation, and
proceeds, in a subsequent number of the Oriental, that of 1st January,
1876, to give a brief history of the eighteen “ schools,” on which the
Buddhist tenets are based.
To those who have had the good, or ill, fortune to pass many years
of their lives in India, instances of devotion, of self-denial, and self-
sacrifice, which the natives of the East exhibit so frequently in the
cause of their religion, cannot fail to occur, and a suggestion may,
perhaps, force itself on the mind that we might not perhaps be ready to
fulfil those requirements of purity and self-denial, which should
instigate the inquirer after truth, and the student of the mysteries of
spiritual phenomena.
That a vast unexplored field of spiritual manifestation exists in the
religious records of India and China, can hardly be doubted, and that
the mode of life and habits of thought adopted by the followers of
Buddha to attain to a condition fit for spiritual mediumship may be
studied with advantage by us, is equally beyond denial. In the cul¬
tivation of the most elevatory and highest religious inspirations, we
look to find the greatest and best results of Spiritualism.
Franklin Fox.
Brighton, January 3rd, 1876.
WHAT DIRECTS THE FORCES OF NATURE?
Sir,—In the debate on materialism The Spiritualist reports me as
saying, “ How can force produce molecular motion? ” instead of “ What
is the force producing molecular motion? ” The materialist identifies
with thought a physical function, which is no doubt inseparable from
thought. “Molecular motions accompany thought and are thought.”
Well, but what produces the molecular motion? If Professor Tyndall
answers, “ You cannot satisfy the human understanding in its demand
for logical continuity between molecular processes and the phenomena
of consciousness. This is a rock on which materialism must inevitably
split whenever it pretends to be a complete philosophy of the human
mind” (Norwich, 1868)—it appears to me that his materialism is of
that harmless, intangible, negative kind which merely ends where
philosophy and psychology begin. In the same way modern scientific
Atheism neither asserts nor denies the possibility of a God; it is merely
negative, not positive Atheism, and ends where Theism begins. Now
this is surely the true, legitimate position of science. It is concerned
only with secondary causes, and would be encroaching on the domain
of philosophy if it either asserted or denied the existence of soul or of
God. Its business is with finite existences, and it has no business to
infer the infinite therefrom. Such an inference would be illogical, say
Professor Tyndall and others. And this atheism of science is, at least,
a much older doctrine than the goodly morality that Nature proves
Nature’s God. The Platonists thought that the soul possessed an
intuition of God superior to science. The Alexandrian schools pro¬
claimed the incapacity of reason; and Fichte says—God is beyond the
reach of our science, but not beyond our faith. Science, therefore, is
essentially and necessarily atheistic; and Professor Tyndall has a
certain right to “ see in matter the promise and potency of every form
and quality of life,” because his point of sight is merely scientific, and
life in a scientific sense is only material life: science has no business
with any other. I say a certain right, hardly a perfect right; for the
popular point of view is other than scientific, and his meaning is liable
to be misunderstood. Yet there can be no doubt that he is merely refer¬
ring to the life of the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms, for he
says in the Fortnightly—“ Nor am I anxious to shut out the idea that
the life here spoken of may be but a subordinate part and function of a
higher life, as the living, moving blood is subordinate to the living man.”
But even if this restriction of the term were not applicable to the
disputed passage, the Professor has secured a retreat from the charge of
materialism in his views of matter, which to him is not dead but living,
“Matter and mystery,” “ Matter and something more.” He is, there¬
fore, “ something more ” than a materialist, even though he stutters at
the shibboleth of Spiritualism. W. W. Fawcett.
Attention is invited to “ The Harrison Testimonial Fund,” adver¬
tised upon another page, as the time draws near for the closing of the list.
Utobtnctal l&etoa.
ANNUAL MEETING- OF THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
On Friday evening, New Year’s Eve, the members of this society
proceeded to the consideration of two annual reports presented by the
vice-president, Mr. J. Lamont, and the Secretary, Mr. Roberts. The
reports set forth that the platform of the society had been occupied
twice every Sunday during the last year, by able trance and normal
speakers; the services had been fully attended, and the interest in
Spiritualism in Liverpool was certainly on the increase. Of the
speakers, mention was made of the able and gratuitous services rendered
the Society by Messrs. Hitchman and Priest during a period of financial
difficulty, occasioned by expenses incurred by the visits of Mrs. Tappan
and others, as well as by certain irregularities. There was a slight
deficit in the balance-sheet up to that evening, when a few gentlemen
on the committee had cleared it off by subscription, enabling the society
to enter upon the new year with a clear balance-sheet. Votes of thanks
were moved, seconded, and carried unanimously, to the following
gentlemen, for their services in the past: Dr. Hitchman and Mr. John
Priest, for their able lectures; Mr. Wason, President; Mr. Lamont,
Vice-president, for their financial support and untiring advocacy of the
cause; to Mr. Bretherton, and the choir, for the attractive features
they had added to the services; and Miss Charlotte Dickson, for her
readings.
The following gentlemen were elected officers for the year 1876:—
Mr. W. Hitchman, M.R.C.S., President; Mr. Ainsworth,'Vice-President;
Mr. Roberts, Secretary; Mr. Knox, Treasurer; Messrs. Smith, Monck,
Chapman, Brown, Hazlem, Meredith, together with Mrs. Ainsworth,
Miss Hilton, and Miss Dickson, were elected members of Committee;
Mr. James Wason was elected Trustee; and Messrs. Charlton and
Bretherton were re-elected as Auditors. Thus there is almost a new
staff of working officials.
Mr. Meredith has been requested to observe (during his mesmeric
lectures in the country), persons possessing, or likely to possess,
medial powers, either trance or physical, and report thereon to the
society. Mr. Ainsworth, the new vice-president, inaugurated his term
of office by the handsome gift of some forty volumes on Spiritualism,
occultism, mental freedom, and cognate subjects. Mr. Wason, Dr.
Hitchman, Mr. Lamont, Mr. Casson, and other members of the society,
have volunteered aid in work and cash, so the society enters on the
campaign of 1876 with fair prospects.
SUNDAY SERVICES. ;
Mr. J. Lamont occupied the chair last Sunday afternoon, at the
services of the Psychological Society, Islington, Liverpool, and intro¬
duced his successor, Mr. Ainsworth, who delivered a discourse on
“ Death,” calmly reviewing in detail most of the conceptions extant on
the subject, Atheistical, Theological and Spiritualistic. He con¬
sidered the Atheistical conception gloomy, but purely intellectual,
therefore incompetent to satisfy the commonest aspirations of the human
affections; its negations he thought to be grounded in false assump¬
tions, seeing that the material appliances of modern science could never
be fitting instruments for the investigation of the problems of spirit,
soul or mind. The benefits accruing to mankind through the investi¬
gations and experiments of modern science, were not to be denied, but
thankfully accepted ; but the opinions of men, scientific or otherwise,
on subjects not within the scope of their observation, were usually not
worth the paper upon which they were written) The spiritualistic
hypothesis he conceived simply to be this 1st. Man is a spirit. 2nd.
That the spirit survives the change called death. 3rd. That the spirit
departed can at times communicate with the embodied spirit left
behind.
Mr. Sutcliffe, of Rochdale, Secretary to the Lancashire Association
for the Promotion of Spiritualism in new districts, made some state¬
ments about the work carried on by that association, composed of in¬
dividuals residing in sixteen or eighteen towns in Lancashire. Eight
new places had been opened by them, mediums introduced to strange
audiences, and Spiritualism to a great many people, much literature
given away and eagerly accepted, and in some places cordial invitations
had been given them by the authorities and the press to come that way
again and bring mediums with them.
In the evening the president, Dr. Hitchman, occupied the chair.
Mr. Lamont lectured on “ Spirit Influence, and its relation to Every-day
Life.” The lecture was based on the assumption that Spiritualism was
true; that man influenced man on this material plane of existence, and
'as a result individuals sought the company that was most congenial to
them; the bad and depraved preferred to associate with the wicked
and dissolute in order that they might carry out their desires; it was
likewise patent that the moral and upright earnestly desired the society
of the noble and the pure. It was perfectly natural that it should be
so, and it was going but a step further fo conceive that those with whom
we had been en rapport in earth life, and who had influenced us either for
good or ill, would not cease to do so when they stepped over to the other
side of the river of death. ’ Could the mother forget her child ? Death
might break down material barriers, but it had no power over the golden
chain of love which bound soul to soul.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
A MIDNIGHT SEANCE ON NEW YEAR’S EVE.
Mr. Rhodes writes:—About forty or more of the members of the
Newcastle Spiritual Society, and their friends, from grey-beards to
babies in arms, assembled at the Old Freemasons’ Hall, to see the
old year out and the new year in. The hall had been tastefully deco¬
rated by Miss Fairlamb, assisted by a few friends, and, on assembling
at ten o’clock at night, a good tea, supper, or whatever it might be
10
THE SPIRITUALIST
Jan. 7, 1876.
termed, was partaken of by those present. The time arrived when they
were like Marcellus and Bernardo, in “Hamlet,” to be “ on their'watch
in the dead Vast and middle of the night; ” but while they, “ distilled
almost to jelly with the act of fear, stand dumb, and speak not,” our
Newcastle Spiritualists were in that state of mind usually termed
“jolly;” and in that gaily-decorated room, with its smiling faces, it
would have been difficult to persuade a stranger that the company were
in as great an expectation of seeing a ghost as was Hamlet and the
officers keeping watch on the platform. “ The air bites shrewdly; it is
very cold,” says Hamlet! “ How very mild it is for the time of year; we
hardly want those blazing fires here,” said one of the company present,
so the fires were screened, and the spectators seated themselves round
the cabinet, and placed Miss Fairlamb in a chair outside the cabinet, in
full view of all present, they then sang the well-known hymns, “ There
is a land that is fairer than day! ” and “ There are angels hovering
around! ” which were responded to from the inside of the cabinet by
loud raps, the ringing of bells, and other phenomena of like nature,
with the evident desire to show that “ there are more things in heaven
and earth than are dreamed of in our philosophy.” Miss Fairlamb
became entranced, and stated that the spirits merely wished to show
their presence, and wishing us a happy new year, would not take up
our time, or tax the already exhausted energies of the medium. The
twenty minutes seance ended by the singing of “Praise God from whom
all blessings flow.” Mr. Armstrong, Mr. Mould, Mr. Nicholson, and
Mr. Rhodes each spoke a few words appropriate to the occasion, and
the company gradually separated.
A Seance with the Petty Family.—Mr. J. Vickers, of Hillam
Cottage, South Milford, writes :—“ At the request of spirit friends I send
you the following: Having to visit Newcastle-upon-Tyne, I arranged to
have a sitting with the celebrated medium family of Mrs. Petty, of
Suffolk-street, and the following is the result. Three sitters only were
present, namely, myself, a Mr. Lee, and Mr. Petty, husband of the
medium. Mrs. Petty entered the cabinet and provided herself with a
small bell. Almost directly after we were seated the curtains were
drawn aside, and we were favoured with the sight of the materialisation
of a spirit in full form, but still within the cabinet. After a time we had
the full form exposed to view for a length of time, entirely enveloped
in white garments, and a good test was given quite unexpectedly. The
spirit was exhibiting itself and walking about a distance of some four
or five feet from the cabinet, and the bell inside the cabinet was rung
violently several times at request, demonstrating to a certainty the fact
of an intelligence within the cabinet. We had this test given several
times. The spirit was recognised as a dear friend of mine, and allowed
me to examine the dress, feel the hands and neck, and place my own
face close to that of the materialised form, so that I have no doubt that
it was a perfect likeness of my friend. Mr. Lee and Mr. Petty were
each of them allowed to take the hand and feel the dress; the spirit
evinced most touching affection toward myself.”
Miss Fairlamb, the medium, is actively engaged organizing a Good
Templars’ lodge, to be held at the Freemasons’ Hall, Weirs-court. She
would be glad of the assistance and co-operation of all Spiritualists
in and around Newcastle.
The’ Newcastle Weekly Chronicle devotes about one and a half pages
to the public for the discussion of various questions; recently several
subjects of a psychological nature have been mooted, so that Spirit¬
ualists in the district would do well to take part in them.
BIRMINGHAM.
In order to test the direct spirit-voices at Mrs. Groom’s seances,
held in Birmingham, on Thursday last, a spirit who announced him¬
self to be the late Mr. B. Hawkes, ordered the medium’s mouth to be
filled with water, and when tbat was done he spoke with his usual
voice and idiom, the medium afterwards returning the water to the
glass. Seven witnesses were present, including Mr. R. Harper.
Witchcraft in Warwickshire.—The editor of the Birmingham
Daily Post thus, in blind ignorance, criticises a recent trial at War¬
wick :—“ A good deal has been said, and very justly, about the degrad¬
ing ignorance and superstition disclosed in the trial at Warwick of a
poor ignorant creature from Long Compton, for killing an old woman
whom he supposed to be a witch. One-third of the population of that
benighted village, we are told, believe in witches—a superstition most
deplorable in itself and its results, and which does not say much, we
fear, for the influence of the successive incumbents of the parish. But
amidst this general jeremiad over Long Compton, it should be re¬
membered that, in one form or another, the darkness of the people there
afflicts many others, in a much better position, and in communities
where enlightenment of all kinds is supposed to prevail. There were,
and we believe still are, considerable numbers of so-called educated
persons who put faith in the rubbish of table-turning and spirit-rapping;
and there are thousands who believe in the power of holding communi¬
cation with the other world through the imposture of mediumship; and
who accept, as spirit utterances, communications made up of nonsense
and expressed in execrable grammar. In what way, we should like to
know, is this form of incantation more respectable than the belief in
witches alleged to be so popular at Long Compton? If, as it seems to
us, the two things are upon a level, there is not much room for moral
stone-thro wing.”
OLDHAM.
SPIRITUALISM IN OLDHAM.—THE HEALING POWERS OF MESMERISM.
An energetic society is making the claims and facts of Spiritualism
known to the public in Oldham. The society has a comfortable little
| room, and friendly lecturers from time to time occupy its platform,
(j Among those who have spoken in Oldham lately are Mr. Wood, trance
jl medium, cof Halifax; Mr. Johnston, trance medium, of Hyde; Mr. J.
|j Lament, Mrs. Ohlsen, Mr. R. Owen, and Mr. J. Coates, all of Liverpool;
(j Mrs. Tappan and Mrs. Butterfield. These friends have worked in
{| Oldham with considerable success. Mrs. Ohlsen’s mediumship has
11 aroused iaterest, more especially at private seances, at which j she has
(i sometimes given tests. Mr. J. Coates, of Liverpool, occupied the plat-
>i form several times towards the close of December in aid of the society,
| | to help it to clear off financial liabilities before the beginning of the
(j new year. His time was fully occupied during his short stay in treating
[| patients mesmerically. At one of the evening services a Mr. Edwin
j Shepherd, 35, York-street, Oldham, rose and said that for the previous
j week he had suffered so much with his head, and a cold, arising from
i exposure to the weather after leaving the hot blast furnaces at the works,
] that he had not been able to attend to his business. He did not know
\ j what Mr. Coates did, except that he put his hands upon him, but his
'i headache soon passed away, his cough had stopped, “and if it pleased
[1 God,” he was going to his work in the morning. A lady, Mrs. Elizabeth
i Clarkeson, said she had been suffering from rheumatism for six months
| in her right shoulder, and Mr. Coates had removed it in about five
j minutes. There were several other cases treated, but we have not yet
| heard the results. Among the number was Mr. Warmby, the secretary
to the society, who had been laid up for a week with bronchitis. He
| arose up and partook of tea after treatment. The society is breaking up
new ground and would be glad to hear from those who would aid in this
j respect. Any communication to be forwarded to Mr. Kershaw, High-street,
Oldham. Dr. Hitchman, and Mr. J. Priest of Liverpool, and Mr. J.
| J. Morse, of London, are expected to speak soon from the platform of the
I society in Oldham.
] | RELIGIOUS SPIRITUALISM.
j ji Dr. William Hitchman concluded his recent course of lectures at the
| i Islington Assembly Rooms, Liverpool, as follows :—
|(| “ Avaunt, O blasphemous mythology of ancient Judaism and modern
| (I Christianity! It fabricates the sword which stabs the peace of each
| I understanding, and cherishes that venom of dire superstition, which
jlj poisons the aspirations of each catholic soul; yes, through all the ages
! [ and stages of life, from the cradle to the grave. Whereas the only true
i!j religion that is born of pure Spiritualism, in my views of the past and
||| present condition of our race, is to speak the truth of God, without the
ji fear of man, morally, mentally, or materially. Let us be good and do
j jl good everywhere ; uphold justice to all men and avoid evil, not one day
: j i in seven only, but all the year round, ever remembering that ‘ belief ’
i (j is not a matter of stereotyped opinion, but the natural outcome of edu-
j j| cation of conscience, by virtue of reason, science, philosophy, judgment,
| i experience, and observation. Atheism, or materialism, as I have shown
j (i you, like the secularism of Mr. Holyoake, is capable of the greatest and
II best deeds which dignify or adorn the life of the flesh, however much it
jh may ignore the coming existence of the spirit, and is in no wise an
! j j ignorant denial of God’s divine government or being—as became the
i jj moral idiocy of David’s fool—but implies, rather, a total absence of de-
: j finite, conclusive knowledge of deity. Fetichism, nature-worship,
1 | shamanism, and all the idolatries of anthropomorphism to which I have
j j adverted in the natural history of man, including the various mytholo-
|(j gies of India, Persia, Egypt, Greece, and Rome, as well as the legends
iji or allegories of Judaism, ancient pagan and modern Christian symbo-
|| lism; what are they? whence did they come? and whither is their
ijj tendency? They are neither more nor less, depend upon it, philoso-
| j i phically or truly, than special indications of that world of spirit, which
| j | is not something above or beside the material universe, but contained
I jj within the soul of man from generation to generation. Withal, it is the
i} j vocation of each modern Spiritualist, I submit, to elevate the moral
j j sense of all peoples into those brighter and more beautiful realities of
jji heart and mind, which are blessed of God, in the life and love of angels
i j j from time to eternity. Such is the education of the conscience in true
j jj spirituality—cosmopolitan and everlasting, without sect, schism, dogma,
j(j or partisanship, that shall enable each, one and all—of every clime and
jji colour throughout the ages, when duly acquainted with the facts and
ijj phenomena of recent spiritual science—to become the pioneers of
jj human progress in the sincerity and truth of thoughts, words, and
i| j deeds, religiously and wisely.
I j Though light he feeble as a glow-worm’s lamp,
j (i Yet fed by noble thoughts and valiant deeds,
:} j Fanned by the aspirations of the wise,
j j j Tended by virtuous hearts with patient care,
! j I Mid cold, and darkness, and tempestuous wrong,
j (i Higher still ’twill rise, and clearer, until soon—
I j j E’en as a beacon on the mountain-top,
jjj Seen of the nations, it illumes the world.”
The “Double Theory.”—Dr. Nehrer, formerly of Vienna, and now
residing in Hungary, writes thus to a friend in England:—“ Your
former hypothesis of the double is not at all to be given up ; there is
much probability, in some c^,ses, that a spirit, fit and ready for
materialisation, should avail himself of the etherial form of his medium.
In my second essay on ‘ Apparitions of Incarnated Spirits,’ you will
find the following case mentioned :—A lady, while embracing her sister,
whom she found entranced, near the window, beholds in a moment, down
in the garden, the double of her entranced sister, walking with their
father. The apparition dissolved after her exclamation of surprise, and
at the same moment the entrancement was over. You will find other
examples in Human Nature, April, 1874.”
11
Jan. 7, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
A SPIRIT MESSAGE.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, of 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square,
has often been told by spirits, through different mediums, that she
has a band of spirits keeping watch over her welfare, the band con¬
sisting of six divisions, of twelve each. One day, a lady, a non-professional
medium from the country, who had never seen Mrs. Gregory before,
called on her, and in the course of a short seance, the following
message was given through the mediumship of the visitor :—
“ More comes from this meeting to-day than you can at present
understand. Links in a chain that stretches from here to the spirit
sphere of love, peace, and unselfishness, we, your guard of six twelves,
stand round you, and pour on you to-day fresh influence of spirit
power, a power of taking care of the light in other souls, and fanning
it into a flame that burns unflickeringly; a power of right over wrong;
of justice for the oppressed, and of shelter for the stranger and pil¬
grim ; for those who walk this earth without a spirit home above.
We rejoice with !you in the quiet freshness and the rest from the
whirl of men’s restless souls; and we love to take counsel, and inter¬
change converse with the bands of spirits who circle round love’s
messenger. Thus we aid each other, and the power to exercise spirit
influence grows and increases. We who dictate this, are the six
chiefs of the six twelves who guard and guide your pathway.’’
National Association Soiree.—The next soiree of the National
Association of Spiritualists will be held next Wednesday, beginning ^at
6.30 p.m. These monthly gatherings are intended to promote social
union among London Spiritualists, and provincial friends who may be
in town. Admission is not limited to members of the Association, and
many who are not members attend. Tickets may be had at the doors:
it is not necessary to get them in advance.
Mr. Morse in the Provinces.—Mr. Morse leaves London to-morrow
or Monday for Wolverhampton, where he speaks on the evenings of
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, January 11th, 12th and 13th. He
will be in Liverpool at the annual meeting of the Liverpool Psycho¬
logical Society, on the 14th; and will speak in the Islington Assembly
Room on Sunday, the 16th; he then goes on to Darlington, January
23rd, 24th, 25th; Saltburn-by-the-Sea, January 26th, 27th; Newcastle
and district, front Jan. 30th, until about Feb. 12th; then on to Glasgow.
Particulars in due course.
Reception at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s.—On Wednesday night
last week, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, of 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-
square, W., gave a reception to Spiritualistic and other friends. Among
those present were the Rev. Maurice Davies, D.D., Lady Brewster, Sir
William Fairfax, Bart., Dr. Kenealy (of The Englishman) and Mrs.
Kenealy, the Rev. Mr. Haweis and Mrs. Haweis, Mrs. and Miss
Schletter, and Miss Annie Schletter, Lady Helena Newenham, Mr. St.
George W. Stock, M.A. (Oxon), Colonel Stewart, Mrs. Limond Strong,
Mr. Buchanan, Mrs. and Miss Showers, Mr. Stoke, Mr. Wedgwood,
Mr. J. T. Peele, Miss Lottie Fowler, Mr. Thomson, Miss Hope, and
Mr. W. H. Harrison.
The Shakers,—Mrs. Girling, the chief of the Shaker community in
the New Forest, accompanied by four male and eight female disciples,
is at present engaged upon a lecturing tour in Hampshire, with a view
to raising funds for the erection of a wooden building to shelter the
community during the ensuing winter. On Tuesday evening Mother
Girling conducted a service at the Portland-hall, Southsea, and although
the prices of admission were 6d., Is., and 2s., the hall was densely
packed in every part. Mrs. Girling conducted the whole of the service
herself. She commenced with a brief address, in which she repudiated
the name of “ Shakers.’’ She believed there was a sect of the name in
America, but she had never been there and she knew nothing about
them. She and her friends were more like the Quakers, but they pre¬
ferred to be called the children of God, owning in him a common Father.
After an earnest prayer, and an anthem which, accompanied by an har¬
monium, was well sung by her followers on the platform, Mrs. Girling
commenced her address. She said that seventeen years ago she was
brought to God, and since that time she had worked in His cause, and
had reclaimed the drunkard, Sabbath-breaker, and liar, and they were
still of her family, and she knew, as well as she knew anything, that
they were all on their knees at that moment at home, praying for the
success of that meeting. Her community lived together because they
loved each other with a pure and unfeigned love, and they could not live
apart. They did not labour after the common manner of the world
because they did not love the things of the world, and it was wrong to
labour for those whose only objects were connected with the world and
the devil. They did not forbid marriage, but they did not encourage it.
She had been charged with influencing her followers by means of
Spiritualism and mesmerism, but it was not so. God did not make
known Himself by means of chairs and tables. Her community was
held together by love and the Holy Ghost working through her. Mrs.
Girling declared most emphatically that Christ had manifested Himself
to her seven years ago, not in the flesh as she saw the audience before
her, but in an ethereal transparent form. A sight of Him was worth all
the gold upon earth, and she would willingly subject herself to persecu¬
tion and torture to see Him again. The present generation, she said,
was the last before the second coming of Christ, and her voice would be
the last echo to call sinners to repentance. Near the close of her
address, while she was defending the dancing of her followers, on the
ground that they had the best right to dance seeing that they possessed
the greatest happiness, one of the girls rose with a low cry and com¬
menced figuring and whirling on the platform. After a time she was
joined by another girl. The movements were exceedingly graceful, and
free from contortion of any kind. The dancing continued for about a
quarter of an hour, and no ill effects seem to ensue on the subsidence of
the ecstacy.—The Times.
The book Angelic. Revelations, consisting of interesting spirit mes¬
sages, is out. So, also, is the second volume of Dr. Crowell’s valuable
book, Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism.
Prize Essays.—The first prize offered by the British National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists for the Essay on the Probable Effect of Spirit¬
ualism on the Social, Moral, and Religious Condition of Society, has
been awarded to Miss Anna Blackwell, and the second to Mr. G. F.
Green, of Vicarage Park, Plumstead.
Dr. Z. Test, of Union Springs, Cayuga County, New York, who
recently visited Baron and Baroness Adelma Vay in Austria, and the
National Association of Spiritualists in London, writes to the secretary
of that Association: “ Allow me to return my sincere thanks for the
honour done me by the British National Association of Spiritualists in
placing my name on the list of its honorary members. ... I find a much
greater reserve here in the class I hoped to interest in Spiritualism than
existed before my departure, owing apparently to the repeated exposures
of mediums during the past year. ... I recall with much pleasure my
frequent visits to the rooms of the National Association, and the kind
welcome that always awaited me.”
Professor William Denton’s Researches.—Professor Denton, of
Wellesley, Massachusetts, writes :—“ I think the review of the Soul of
Things, published some time ago in The Spiritualist, scarcely does jus¬
tice to it or my method of investigation. In a large part of my experi¬
ments I employed two, and sometimes three or more psychometers,
who independently described from the same specimens, very similar,
and in some cases identical appearances, bearing in many cases internal
evidence of their accuracy, not only from their agreement with each
other, but from their harmony with known scientific facts, the parties
examining generally having no knowledge whatever of the specimens
examined. It is scarcely correct to call psychometers ‘ clairvoyants.’
Clairvoyants see what is, psychometers what has been; and not only
do they see, but hear, feel, and, in short, exercise every sense in connec¬
tion with what only had a material existence, it may be ages ago. They
appear to live in the past, and that past seems as real to them at the
time as the present does to us. The general reliability of psychometry,
when used for the purpose of obtaining facts regarding the past of our
planet, I have demonstrated by many hundreds, if not thousands, of
test experiments, many of which I give in The Soul of Things.
Ecclesiastical Information.—The following paragraph, extracted
from a long review in a recent number of The Guardian shows the
reliability of the information with which clergymen are sometimes
regaled by one of their favourite organs: “ Miss Cook lies down
entranced, and then the bare-footed, white-robed figure appears before
the curtain which hides the medium from sight, and converses with the
audience, and walks amongst them. But it is not Miss Cook her¬
self. Mr. Crookes has seen them both together, and even photo¬
graphed them in the same picture. All this is decribed so fully in
the book before us, and is altogether so wonderful, that we are quite
sorry to communicate to our readers an intimation in the Chicago
Tribune, that * Katie King ’ has confessed these manifestations to be a
fraud, and that the effect of this confession upon Mr. Robert Dale Owen
—a very remarkable man, of much cultivation, who has written perhaps
the best books extant on Spiritualism, and who, like Mr. Crookes and
Mr. Wallace, had completely accepted Katie King—had been so great
as to drive him, now an old man, into insanity. The fraud must have
been a very clever one, and we should like much to know the particulars
of her confession.” As Miss Cook never saw Mr. Dale Owen and has
never visited America, she must have been clever to send her guardian
spirit there to drive Mr. Dale Owen into insanity. If the editor of
The Guardian understands his own meaning, we do not.
A Social Idea.—A meeting was held recently at 38, Great Russell-
street, for the purpose of discussing the question of co-operative
homes. The chair was occupied by Mr. Edward Maitland, and a paper
was read by Mr. E. T. Bennett, which set forth the great inconvenience
felt by small families, and by single persons of both sexes, in being
obliged to maintain a separate house and servants all the year
round at great cost, and often without much comfort. Mr. Bennett sug¬
gested that a number of separate houses, of various sizes, should be
built in a quadrangle, one side of which was to be devoted to the public
department, to consist of public kitchens, store-rooms, dining and
drawing-rooms, library, and reading-rooms. Mr. Blackman, of Hamp¬
stead, described the plan which he had adopted, and which was
superior to that of an ordinary boarding-house, in that he admitted
whole families into his establishment as well as ladies and gentlemen,
and that he had found it quite a success. Mr. Allen, who had formerly
assisted Sir Sydney Waterlow in establishing the Working Men’s
Dwellings, said that he had built a house in Manor-road, Stoke
Newington, which he let out in tenements from £20 to £65 a-year. He
had now twenty-four tenants, and the plan had succeeded so well,
that he was about to build some more houses on a similar plan. In his
plan every family had its own kitchen, and the meals were taken in
private; but there was a large garden at the back which all used in
common, also a kind of garden-house, containing a billiard-room and hall
for dancing or music. The garden produced excellent fruit and
vegetables, with which the tenants were supplied at market prices. He
found no inconvenience from the mixing of persons in different grades
of society. They saw as much or as little of each other as they
desired, and the result was mutual benefit and satisfaction. Mr. Allen
invited any one who chose to pay him a visit to inspect his houses. Mr.
Bennett read a portion of a paper on Co-operative Housekeeping, by
Miss Ramsay, published in the Englishwoman's Review, which spoke of
the want which Mr. Bennett proposed to supply as being widely felt.
At the close of the meeting a Committee was formed to consider the best
way of carrying out the scheme. Any friends interested in its promo¬
tion are requested to communicate with Mr. E. T. Bennett, The
Holmes, Betchworth, Reigate. ,
Jan. 7, 1876.
12 THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE LATE ARCHBISHOP WHATELY'S RELATIONSHIP TO
SPIRITUALISM.
To the Editor of li The Spiritualist” j
Maison Imhof, Clarena, Vaud, Switzerland, Jan. 4, 1876.
Sir3—May I takejhe liberty of troubling you with a few
lines to explain a mistake which I understand has got abroad
among some writers connected with the objects of your {!
journal, respecting my father, the late Archbishop Whately ? |
A so-called Anecdotal Memoir of him was published some |i
years back by a Mr. Fitzpatrick (without the consent or ij
knowledge of the family), in which it was asserted that my jj
father was an ardent Spiritualist by conviction and practice |i
in his later days ; and this statement appears to have been !j
repeated by others. i ]
Mr. Fitzpatrick’s work is one altogether unworthy of b
credit, and I feel sure that the writers who have been misled i!
by him will be glad to have the true state of the case ex- b
plained to them. With this view I enclose an extract from
my father’s Commonplace Book, dictated by him within a
few months of his death, for a friend who wished to have his
opinion on the subject, an opinion confirmed by the senti¬
ments he repeatedly expressed in conversation.
May I ask you kindly to insert the extract in your pages,
for the information of those who have been misinformed by
Mr. Fitzpatrick’s book ? ' '! ? I
I remain, yours faithfully, j- I
E. Jane Whately.
AUCHBISHOP WHATELY ON SPIRITUALISM. * |
Last extract in Archbishop Whately’s Commonplace Book,
dictated in the spring of 1863.
“ I am greatly perplexed, and so are the intelligent friends
whom I consulted, about Mr. Home’s proceedings. In the
midst of this perplexity I would observe that when one side
of an alternative may possibly lead to something evil or
dangerous, and the other cannot, it is prudent to keep on
the safe side. ‘ !
“The invocation of departed sainls in the Church of |
Rome (to which, by-the-by, Mr. Home’s proceedings appear
to have a tendency) I have heard some defend on the ground
of its being the safe side. i I am not quite sure,’ I have j!
heard a Romanist say, ‘ that the saints can hear us, but I | j
like to take my chance of it; and at any rate, there is no I <
harm done.’ But, in truth, the opposite is the safe side. ]
For we are quite sure that God can hear us, and we cannot jj
be equally sure that the invocation of saints may not be a h
sinful encroachment on the claims of the ‘jealous God.’ jj
“ Now with respect to this necromancy (for that is the right : {
name of an attempt to hold intercourse with spirits of the j|
departed), which is the safe side? - ; ; ( jj
“ It must be quite safe to keep aloof from it; but it would jj
be very bold to pronounce confidently that it is impossible ji
it can lead to anything that is not allowable and safe, jj
There can, surely, be no objection to abstain from it. It jj
does not profess, like mesmerism, to heal diseases. It does j
not pretend to reveal new religious truths, or to predict j
future events. It claims only what Plato calls ‘an otiose j
belief,’ that is, one which leads to no practical results. j
“ Not that I would reject, as some do, every inquiry whose j
practical utility is not at once apparent. Some which had j
been originally pursued from the mere thirst of knowledge, j
have led, most unexpectedly, to important practical benefits, j
But, then, we should be quite sure that there is no possible j
risk of evil. Now, supposing it granted that there is no j|
harm at present in this necromancy, and that the spirits j
merely amuse themselves with tossing about nosegays and j
ringing bells, and that they even make godly professions, jj
we should remember that any evil being, whether man or jj
demon, who designed to lead men ultimately into something j
evil, would not show himself at once in his true character, j
but ‘transformed into an angel of light.’ The Mormonites j
began by pretending to very pure morality, but afterwards j
gradually led their disciples into all kinds of enormities, j
On the whole, therefore, I think it is the safest course to j
have nothing to do with necromantic practices.” j
Mrs. Firman, of Paris, has just given birth to a little boy, which ij
the spirits say will he a medium, like his father and mother. Medium- !j
ship is undoubtedly hereditary. T®' 1)
HENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA.
This eminent mediseval philosopher, author, and scientist,
whose writings are soon to be introduced to the public in the
Spiritual Scientist, was born at Cologne in 1846, and from
childhood displayed a marvellous aptitude for study. By
Erasmus, Trithemius, and Melancthon he was regarded as
one of the greatest men who ever lived—“ the light of
literature and an ornament to philosophy.” He was equally
renowned as a theologian, physician, jurisconsult, philoso¬
pher, and alchemist. The Emperor Maximilian made him
his secretary, conferred upon him the title of chevalier, and
gave him the honorary command of a regiment. At one
time he was professor of Hebrew and the belles lettres, at the
University of Dole, in France; at another, syndic and ad¬
vocate-general of Metz ; at another, physician to Louisa of
Savoy, mother of Francis I. ; at still another, historio¬
grapher to the Emperor Charles Y. Henry VIII. of Eng¬
land and Margaret of Austria competed for the favour of his
attachment to their respective courts. At the age of twenty,
so great was his reputation as an alchemist, that the princi¬
pal adept of Paris wrote to Cologne to invite him to settle
in France, and aid them with his experience in discovering
the philosopher’s stone. (SeeMackay’s Popular Delusions.')
Although he was believed to have the secret of the transmu¬
tation of metals, he lived and died in poverty, as all true
adepts of occultism have before and since his time.
The stories which are told of his power to evoke spirits
are most wonderful, and Mr. Peebles quotes one of these
(from Goodwin’s Lives of the Necromancers) in hisj Seers of
the Ages ; although he omits to give the name of the Earl of
Surrey, at whose request he called up the shade of Tully,
upon the occasion noted, and made it repeat his celebrated
oration for Roscius.
For Sir Thomas More, Agrippa caused to appear in a
dream the whole destruction of Troy; to Thomas Lord
Cromwell he exhibited in a magic mirror King Henry VIII.
and his lords hunting in Windsor Forest; to Charles V. he
showed a number of historical personages of a former age,
whom the Emperor wished to see. Mackay tells us that
according to his contemporaries ; “ He could turn iron into
gold by his mere word. All the spirits of the air and
demons of the earth are under his command, and bound to
obey him in everything. He could raise from the dead the
forms of the great men of other days, and make them appear
in their habit as they lived, to the gaze of the curious who
had courage enough to abide their presence.”
In the Retrospective Review (Vol. XIV., for 1826) we find
an article reviewing his work, On the Vanitie and Uncer-
taintie of Arts and Sciences, in wdiich is included a list of
his works, as follows : A Treatise on the Excellency of
Women, 1529 ; A Sketch of the History, of the Government
of Charles V.; and On the Vanities of the Sciences, in 1530;
On Occult Philosophy, in 1530; A Commentary on the Arts
of RaymundpLullius—another highly celebrated occultist,
who was born in Majorca, a.d. 1235; A Dissertation on
Original Sin ; An Essay on Marriage ; and several books of
letters to various persons.
In concluding his very lengthy and expansive article, the
writer in the Retrospective Review says that every chapter of
the volume in hand “ is a storehouse of knowledge, collected,
not as in our degenerate days, from sources provided by a
profusion of works of reference, but sought out by persevering
labour from mines of literary lore, in his time rare, expen¬
sive, and difficult of access.” “ In a word,” says he, “ we
close the volume with the highest respect for our friend
Cornelius, who, notwithstanding many faults of style and
paradoxical views, has produced a work replete with deep
knowledge of the world and human nature.”—Spiritual
Scientist (Boston, U.S.)
Mr. George Harris, F.S.A., is writing a book upon “ The Nature
and Constitution of Man,” in the course of which he will deal with
questions relating to the mind and spirit. The work has been long in
course of preparation.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
W. A., Landport, and Mr. Armstrong, Newcastle.—We could not find space
for a continuation of the controversy about which you wrote.
K., Newry.—We have no leisure to attend to the matter, which should be
taken in hand by Spiritualists residing in the locality.
Jan. 7, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
OST SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “THE SPIRITUALIST"
NEWSPAPER,
3S, GBEAT RUSSELL-STBEET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author s views of the relation-
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. JTs. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d."
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, .' by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIBITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
■PLANGHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
• for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Yol. IL, by E. W. Cox, Scrjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Smritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psyehic| Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. ■ The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by tbe Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraitbs, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritnal-
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This hook professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will he fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 5s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by. an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, Jiefore educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 7s. 6d.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents : The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo„
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals jwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visipns passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made;by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala,”: published
in this hook, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote [during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. Od., .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book Is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
hook consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s. '
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. '
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS ; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains tbe
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols.,
12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. OONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
STATUVOLENOE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
AROANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
AROANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d. ■
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations eon-
neeted therewith. This work gained the ;prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 4s. ;
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vois.) 10s
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.
—Continued.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Sees'." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . .15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . . .76
The Seer. „III. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography oi Al. J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . ■ . .40
Arabula, or Divine Guest ... . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .40
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .40
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for ohe Age ■ . . .40
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . , .30
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .40
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . ..80
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .66
Tbe Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . 2 6
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . ..30
Morning Lectures . . . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
X. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spiiutualist Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialismsi(Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D   . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer,M.D. . . . .’2 0
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . ■ 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , . .10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds : 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A usefiu Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H,
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R,
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young. 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE
SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 7, 1876.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Committee.
Martin B. Smith, Esq.
Charles Blaclkhurn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Baroness Adelma von Vay.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.B.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.S.
: Tel.E.
N. F. Dawe, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
'Eugene Crowell. Esq., M.D.
Mrs. Honywood.
Secretary a
Martin B. Smith, Esq., 38, Gre
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgen-
stein.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,
F.E.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne, Esq.
Treasurer.
Bussell-streei, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr.
Wm. H. Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the
editor. This journal has been a credit and strength to the
movement in every respect. It has been printed in clear type
and on good paper, and has been conducted with ability,
caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no
means self-supporting; indeed, during the first three years of
its existence it entailed upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss,
which he bore single-handed. This loss was aggravated by
the fact that, in order the more completely to devote his
attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison volun¬
tarily relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upon
reliable information, at an average of not less than £200 per
annum) of the income which he was deriving from literary
work on the Engineer newspaper and other journals. Mr.
Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the past
eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week
to a practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances.
By his unwearied and intelligent observation he has been
enabled to collect a mass of reliable information as to the facts
and principles of Spiritualism, which fits him in the highest
degree to be the editor of a newspaper devoted to the religious
and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper,
which was inaugurated the year after the appearance of the
Spiritualist, has been annually subsidized by large subscrip¬
tions, which its editor, Mr. Burns, has always called for as
justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully acknowledge the
services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism, we
would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for
help has ever, except upon one occasion, and that fora special
purpose, appeared in the pages of the Spiritualist for six years.
The work was done, and the whole expense borne for three of
those years by Mr. Harrison alone; during the last three years
an annual sum of about two hundred pounds has been privately
subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless, greatly
relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but
this in no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years
cheerfully submitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to
supply to the movement a paper in many, if not in all, respects
worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that
it is not to the credit of the movement that this-pecuniary
loss should be borne alone by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would
doubtless have been forthcoming, as they have been for some
years past in answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since
its establishment—but he has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to
the existing Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take
the form of a testimonial to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is
hoped; may to some extent; relieve him from the heavy
sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in the
interests of Spiritualism.
Friends desiring to contribute to this fund are requested
to send in their names to Martin B. Smith, Esq., care of Miss
Kislingbury, 38, Great Bussell-street, London, W.O.
List of Subscriptions to January 5th, 1876.
Mr. Martin B. Smith   £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  50 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze    50 0 G
Mr. James Mylne   40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder     20 0 0
A Friend      j  20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod          20 0 0
Comte de Bullet      20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe ;  15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  10 0 0 .
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D..,     10 0 0
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein  6 0 0
F. S. A  5 5 0
Mr. C. F. Yarley, F.B.S.    5 0 0
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D    5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe  5 0 0
Mr. Charles Massey  i  5 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald   5 0 0
A Friend       5 0 0
Signor Damiani  3 3 0
Mrs. Honywood     2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald  2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S  2 2 0
Mr. S. Chinnery      2 2 0
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D    2 2 0
“ Ennesfallen ”         2 2 0
Three Friends ,   ;...... 2 2 0
Col. Olcott     2 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent      2 0 0
Dr. Baikie   2 0 0
Miss Douglas   2 0 0
M. H. C       2 0 0
M. Gustave de Yeh       200
Mr. Koningale Cook   1 11 6
Mr. Geo. King   110
Mr. F. A. Binney       110
Mr. J. Coates     1 10
Mrs. Maltby    110
Mrs. Kislingbury    I    110
Mr. B. W. Pycock       110
Mr. B. Coleman  (    110
Mr. B. Fitton'      1 1 0
Major Menars    110
Mr. John Lament     110
Mr. Archibald Lamont    1 1 0
Mr. T. B. Griffin   *  110
Mr. J. B. Stones      110
Mr. J. Began      110
Mrs. Began   110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese        110
- Bev. W. Wnitear    1 1 0
' Miss Whitear      110
Mr. O. E. Williams        110
Mr. A. Glendinning         110
Mr. H.Withall      '1 1 0
CRptaln James           110
Mr. F. W. Percival '      110
Mr. Christian Beimers  110
Mr. Thos. Hinde..' |    110
Mr. Thos. Grant     110
Mrs. Geo. Neville   110
Mr. G. E. Tapp       110
Mr. J. Clark Ferguson    110
Mrs. Woodforde..    110
Mr. T. M. Simkiss       110
A Friend        110
A Friend, per Miss Williamson  110
Mr. W. P. Adshead     1 1 0
Mr. D. H. Wilson .;        110
Mrs. M.T. Wood   110
Mr. John Scott     110
Mr. C. T. Hook    ;      110
Baroness von Yay   10 6
Dr. W. M. Buchanan     1 0 .0
Miss E. D. Ponder      10 0
A Subscriber       10 0
Amicus !  1 0 0
Mr. A. C. Swinton      10 0
M.A. (Oxon.)     10 0
Mr. Geo. Lee   0 10 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett     0 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmands  1   0 10 6
Mr. Aaron Franklin   0 10 6
Mrs. Aaron Franklin   0 10 6
Mr. J. S. Crisp    0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald      0 10 6
Mr. St. George Stock    0 10 0
Mr. Geo. Blyton    0 10 0
Mr. G. H. Potts    0 10 0
J. F. C.      0 10 0
Mr. Algernon Joy      0 5 0
Miss Kislingbury   0 5 0
“Peterboro”     0 5 0
A. C. W          0 5 0
Miss Emily FitzGerald   0 5 0
A Clergyman ;    0 5 0
A Beader of The Spiritualist  0 5 0
Mr. Wm. Bobinson     0 5 0
Small sums    0 5 3
Just published in one volume, handsomely got up, and printed
on toned paper,'
ANGELIC REYELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, TJLTIMATION, AND DESTINY
OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an
Angel in the tenth state.
Contents.
CHAP. 1.—TheUnity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
,, 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences
in the Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
,, 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
, 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
,, 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,', 11.—The Lost Orb. Part 1.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Bod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an ac¬
count of the Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jaeoby,
with her experiences in the other life, up through the states
to the tenth in which she is now in, and communicates as the
Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Becorder, who gives a
full account concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo-
printed, of the Angel, the original of which was produced by
the direct operation of Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of are
of such thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense
to make it a handsome volume, and not being published with
any regard to profit, it is hoped that a large circulation may
be obtained.
Price of the volume Gs.
On sale at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38,
Great Bussell-street, London, W.O., who have kindly con¬
sented to receive orders for the same.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been 'a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOB ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks' t’me. .
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large, quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Bussell-street, Blooms¬
bury, London, W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
rpHE ALPHA ; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
I OF THE HUMAN MIND; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author,
E. N. Dennys. “We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.’’—Athenaeum.' “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.’’—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, witha beautiful Engraving of the Author,
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
rPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
J- PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.’' A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity ? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Biehes ; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
‘•THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at 1 d. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
Now Beady, pp. 592, demy Svo, handsomely bound, extra
cloth, 10s., by post, Us.
HAFED, PRINCE OF PERSIA. His expe¬
riences in Earth-Life and Spirit-Life, being Spirit
Communications received through Mr. David Duguid, the
Glasgow Trance Painting Medium, with an appendix, contain¬
ing communications from the Spirit Artists, Ruisdal and
Steen.
Illustrated by Fac-similes of Forty-five Drawings and
Writings, the direct work of the Spirits.
London: James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C. Glas¬
gow : H. Nisbet, 219, George-street.
From numerous eulogistic expressions of opinion by sub¬
scribers, the publisher has much pleasure in giving the
following from S. C. Hall, Esq.:—
Avenue Villa, 50, Holland-street, Kensington, W.
December 27, 1875.
Dear Mr. Nisbet,—You have sent, me a most, wonderful
book. It has given me intense delight. I cannot exaggerate
if I say I have never yet read a book that has given me such
deep and delicious joy—with only one exception, The Book,
which this book so thoroughly upholds. Surely it will be so
with all who believe in and love the Lord Christ. . . . Blessed
be the God of love and mercy, who sent him to reveal and to
elucidate the great truths of the Gospel. Mrs. Hall is reading
it now. But I must read it again, and yet again. It (Will
companion the New Testament that stands at my bed-head,
and in which I read a chapter every night. Send me two
more copies.... Burns says it is cheap: it is worth its weight
in diamonds. But I wish it had been in two volumes.—Ever
truly yours, S. C. Hall.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
nPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-*- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the (Robe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. * Among those who
have published their names in connection with1 their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause): Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden); The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuehtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dtde
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St., Stanislas JSt. Peters¬
burg); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edm.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackhum; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon),; Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life.of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. ?H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling¬
bury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J.- N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles KUnited States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitedjKingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, '4 dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O."
[December, 1876.]
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme, Ye. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Oapucines, Paris.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & C9., at the
Holbora Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
