AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[KEGISTEKED FOB TEANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
No. 127.—(Vol. VI.—No. 5.) LONDON: JANUARY 29, 1875. Published Weekly: Price Twopence*
©{intents.
Speculations Eelating to Spirit Identity  49
American Materialisation Manifestations:—Mrs. Compton’s Medium-
sMp—Appearance of an Indian Spirit—American Beports of
Spiritual Manifestations—Evidence against Duplication of Form... 50
An Extraordinary Test Seance   ...  /   52
A Trance Address by Mrs. Tappan (Conclusion)  53
Marvellous Direct Writing by Spirits ... ...      55
Travelling in the Spirit         55
Poetry   ...  '. ;   .<.. ... ... ... 56
Correspondence:—Invocations, and the Inspiration of Barry Cornwall—
Recognisable Spirit Faces—Matter and Spirit—Swedenborgian
Problems—The Ring Test—The Spiritualism of Lothair—Spiritual¬
ism in Edinburgh—Seances with Mr. C. E. Williams—A Materiali¬
sation Seance—Spiritualism in Germany   56
Paragraphs:—Passed to Spirit Life, 52; The Spiritual Magazine, 55;
Next Wednesday’s Soiree, 55; Reception at Mrs. Gregory’s, 59;
Spirit Drawings in Brighton, 59: The American Word “Scientist,”
59; The Increase of Luhacy, 59; Strike in a Law Court, 59; A
Haunted House, 60; Prevision by a Savage, 60; The St.John’s
Association of Spiritualists  ;.      60
Answers to Correspondents  .'.   60
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 # 26 Viet., cap. 89.)
42, POULTRY (O.OENEE OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD A
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES
On the first Wednesday of each month, until further notice.
The first will take place on the 3rd February, 1875, at THE CAVENDISH
ROOMS, 71, Mortimer-street, Oxford-street, W.<
SIMPLE FORM OP ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
if preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray. Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray, Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
John Brown, Esq., C. N. O. Hutton, Esq., J.P., Arthur lago, Esq., H. E.
Knight, Esq , Alderman, M. Ev Marsden, Es > R B Martin, Esq., M.A.,
F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq., Major J. C.
Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffin).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S.
CLASS.
BA
oa
sw
<
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
Partial
Disable¬
ment.
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
Paymt
within
TwoYrs
‘ A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
£
1000
500
250
100
£ s. d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
10 0
£ s. d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s. d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s. d.'
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
^60
“ A.” Death only.
1000
500
1 10
0 11 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
‘ B.” Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
60 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
2 2 0
13 0
12 6
0 12 6
12 6
0 12 6
Forms, Prospectuses, and fprther particulars on application to
MR. THOMAS BLYTON, . |
12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
LE MESSAGrER, a fortnightly Journal, published, on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cath^drale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
“O EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
XV foJde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
T_ HE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman,
Price Threepence. Tobehadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
These meetings have been organised at the request, ami for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and. members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition. -
Hours, from 6.30 to 10 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets. Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d. Sub-*1
scribers of one guinea, twenty tickets, each available for any one of the
first six meetings. To be obtained of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road,
Notting-hill, Mr. J. W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, and at the
doors of the hall, on the evening of each Conversazione.
NOTICE.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S LECTURES ON SUNDAY
EVENINGS. .
Commencement of the Second Course
UPON THE “SOUL AND SPIRIT OF MAN, ITS, ORIGIN,
PROGRESS, AND DESTINY.”
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-street, Portland-place, London, every Sunday evenin g;
Doors open at 6.30, to commence at 7 p.m. V
Reserved seats 2s. each. Other seats Is. each, and 16d. each, to be
purchased at the doors.
Tickets for a course of twelve lectures can be obtained of Mr.' Webster
Glynes, 4, Gray’s-inn-square, on application, enclosed post-office order for
24s. or 12s.
3IRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
X Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &e., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Fparkes, spiritualist photographer.
• Sittings d la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting, Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
11
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Jan. 29, 1875,
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Oppice-Beaeees eor 1874.
President.—James 'Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Eussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFOKD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
mwO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—See Advertisement.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lament, Mr. 'William Meredith,
Mr. Q-. Whannby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. R. Oasson, Mr, D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Riece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
"Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to 'William Howitt’s Letter on the Beitish National Association
of Spiritualists. By Alg-ernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
imite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
or all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &o., are lent to read.
Chaeles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
LECTURES by the following gentleman will be delivered
at above address as follows:—
On Wednesday, January 13th, Mr. Joseph Cartwright will deliver a
lecture entitled, “ Spiritualism, and the Rev. J. May of Saltash.”
On Wednesday, January 20th, Mr. Joseph Freeman will deliver a lecture
entitled, “Utility of Spiritualism.” . .
On Wednesday, January 27th, Mr. 0. W: Pearce will deliver a lecture
entitled.
On Wednesday, February 3rd, Mr. James Bums, of 15, Southampton-row,
Holborn, W.C., will deliver a lecture entitled, “spiritual and Progressive
Thought in the Writings of Robert Barns*” illustrated by readings of his
poetry in the Scottish Dialect.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. Gd. Longmans, 1,866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimptoh, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred,subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
Information about the society \may be obtained from the Officers of the
Association by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee Rooms,
30, Parkfleld-street, Islington!
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and- PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s,
CURATIYE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Authoe, 10., Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Baillieee & Co., King William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND. STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Tbree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, RUSSELL-STBEET, Melbouene, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on • Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
pricers. 6d, Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash,-postage extra,
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
London :—Simpkin, Maeshail & Co.
Mesmerism, electro-biology, fascination.
How to produce sleep upon any person with certainty. Why do
Mesmerists fail? &c. M. Rigg, Teacher of Mesmerism, &c.,by post or ap¬
pointment. How to produce all those ourious stage phenomena, he can
teach efficiently by post.
M. Rigg, practical mesmerist, 17, Pakenh'am-street, London, W.C.
Advice in all cases of disease. Pamphlet, &c., gratis, by post, Id.
stamp.
Published on the first of .each month, Price Sixpence,
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. EDITED BY GEORGE
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having'now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-row, E.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
libeeal discount foe cash. '
THOS. WILKS,1 BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the,vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on s,ale.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
e SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publication.
Established 1842.
Jl yrujrm xrff ^ttti uff
VOjLUJVIE ^IX. JNfUJVIBEI^ FIVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 29th? 1876.
Cjj£
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any -delay or irregularity in the supply of '•'•The Spintualist,, in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. T.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street,
Washington.—Bichard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.,
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
JpEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPECULATIONS RELATING TO SPIRIT IDENTITY.
One of the most serious points in the philosophy of
modern Spiritualism, and one which may with advantage
be established on a much firmer basis than it possesses
at present, is that of spirit identity. Mediums seem to
vary in transparency to different kinds of spiritual in¬
fluence, much as different specimens of glass vary in
transparency to light. The manifestations through
a very large number of mediums may he regularly
watched for months, without any clear evidence of
spirit identity being obtained, in the shape of revelation
of names and dates previously unknown to the medium
or any person present in the circle, but afterwards
demonstrated to be true. Such evidence is nevertheless
occasionally obtained, indeed through exceptional me¬
diums it is lavishly given, and to a certain extent
proves the presence of intelligences other than those
present in the body; at the same time it is not abso¬
lute proof of spirit identity, since invisible intelli¬
gences might collect the information and give it through
the medium, at the same time professing themselves to
he other than they are. This latter hypothesis assumes
some of the power to be evil; still there is plenty of
evidence that the invisible powers at work in Spirit¬
ualism, are sometimes good, sometimes bad, and some¬
times indifferent, just the same as with mortals in the
body.
One reason why spirits cannot give names and
addresses through most mediums probably is, that such
proper names contain no ideas, and when spirits have
only the power of putting ideas into the brain of the
medium, which ideas are then unconsciously trans¬
lated and sent into the outer world through the
organism of the sensitive, it is plain that a name like
“ Robinson,” which contains no idea, but is a mixture
of arbitrary sounds, could not be given by this method
of communication. On the other hand, supposing the
spirit to be able to move the hand or the mouth of the
medium, without using the brain at all, then it is con¬
ceivable that names and dates of any kind can be
readily given. Further, on a critical examination of
various kinds of medial phenomena, it will probably be
found that the brain is little acted upon in those cases
where the mediums are able to give such tests.
This matter of spirit identity is considerably com¬
plicated by the fact that the intelligences communi¬
cating through many mediums, are in many respects the
“ doubles ” in external appearance and mentally, of the
mediums themselves. Canon Calloway, in a paper
read at the Anthropological Institute, told how a man
saw and talked to the double of himself, and was often
outwitted by his second self in argument y that at last
the circumstance became so intolerable that he blew
his brains out. The Seeress of Prevorst was once
frightened at the sight of her own double. In later
years a very large number of cases has been collected
and authenticated in modern Spiritualism, wherein,
while a living person has been in one place, his double
50
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 29, 1875.
has been seen in another, and on after inquiry, the
mortal body has sometimes been discovered to have
been in a state of sleep or trance at the time. Cases
are on record in which the spirit of a dying person has
been seen by one of his friends at a distance, at or
about the moment of the death of the body, as in the
instance wherein Lord Brougham saw the spirit of a
schoolfellow at the moment that schoolfellow died in
India. In many of these cases the spiritual sight of
the observers may have been opened, or the apparitions
may have been what medical men would call subjective
visions. In some cases, however, this explanation will
not suffice. Some examples publicly narrated by Mrs.
Hardinge at the Gower-street Conferences were printed
in the first volume of The Spiritualist, setting forth
how in one case the double was seen by several persons
at the same time ; it knocked at the door of the house,
and pushed against observers in the passage. In
another case, a little girl saw the double of her mother,
and the spirit covered the child with roses, which were
seen by others.
Later still, the study of Spiritualistic phenomena has
revealed that the spirit hands which for so many years
have been common at seances, are in many cases,
though not in all, the doubles of the hands of the
mediums ; also, that the chief voice spirits, who control
physical mediums, take on, to a large extent, the
form and features of the said mediums when they,
by materialisation, make themselves objectively visi¬
ble, and when they show themselves to many persons
at the same time. These materialised forms scarcely
ever say anything above the mental capacity of their
mediums, or state facts not previously known to the
mediums, or make statements about their earth-lives
which can be verified.
The action of the double may be further traced
in certain kinds of writing mediumship, like that of
Messrs. Plint and Mansfield, for the same power of
reading and answering sealed letters possessed by
materialised spirits, is exhibited unconsciously through
the organisms of the two mediums just mentioned,
who, however, do not get materialisations at all. Further,
the materialisation spirits can control their mediums to
write or speak what they please, consequently a certain
amount of identity between these two kinds of manifes¬
tations is established, although the powers of Messrs.
Plint and Mansfield are not usually considered to be
related to physical mediumship. Again, the com¬
munications through a large number of mediums are
said by their intimate friends to be largely coloured by
their own thoughts, and in trance mediumship mistakes
about physics and other educational subjects which
may prevail in the minds of the mediums, are repeated
while they are under spiritual influence, so that the
question of spirit identity is rendered all the more
difficult to solve. Indeed, all these facts taken together,
may easily raise the question whether the spirit of the
medium may not produce a large number of the
phenomena of modern Spiritualism, while the body of
the medium is in a more or less somnambulic state.
To this it. may be replied that the medium often sees
and speaks to his attendant “ double,” and argues with
him; not only are the head and hands of the spirit
sometimes materialised while such conversation takes
place, but are busily at work producing various mani¬
festations. There is clear evidence that on certain
occasions there has been this approximate duplication
qf form and of mental characteristics, and it is difficult
to suppose that a medium can possess two spirits. A
wild speculation may however be suggested here, which
will give an infinite amount of pleasure to Mr. Seijeant
Cox. In his last book entitled “What am I?” he speaks
of the duplication of form in the two halves of
the human- body, namely two eyes, two hands, two
legs, two divisions of the brain, and so forth, and
he argues that the germ of one half the body comes from
the father and the other from the mother. If
everything in the material world has its foundation in
a spiritual cause, there must be. something of a double
nature in the spiritual part of man corresponding to
the duplication visible in the body. So if Serjeant Cox
likes to accept the further speculation, that while the
mother-derived part of the medium is awake and
governing the body of the medium, the father-derived
part of the medium is in a somnambulic sleep and pro¬
ducing the manifestations, he is welcome to work out
the brilliant problem, the seed of which is now placed
in his hands.
The usual spiritual theory of the same phenomena
is, that an independent intelligence divorced from
material conditions, can take on those physical con¬
ditions only which it finds about the medium, hence the
similarity in appearance and intelligence while manifest¬
ing. Supposing the phenomena to be produced by the
spirit of the medium, it might be argued that the
medium at heart must be excessively untruthful and
iniquitous, to deceive people by the use of wonderful
powers possessed while in an abnormal state, but this
hypothesis is not necessarily true; for instance, a
mesmeriser, by the influence of his will, can make his
sensitives on the platform do whatever he pleases, con¬
sequently if a number of people around a medium firmly
desire spirits to appear or communicate, the concentra¬
tion of all their wills on the medium might produce
results for which the medium is no more responsible,
than were the youths for their acts while on the plat¬
form under the influence of the public mesmerist.
What with mediums who are not clear channels to
spiritual influence, and what with the existence, of
these doubles, the amount of evidence of spiritual
identity is exceedingly limited ,as compared with the
vast range of the phenomena of modern Spiritualism,
so that a more important subject could not be con¬
sidered than the present, by those who desire to know
that the foundations of the whole subject are secure.
AMERICAN MATERIALISATION MANIFESTATIONS.
An examination of the American and Australian
periodicals for the past year, will show how widespread
are the materialisation manifestations, similar to those
now common in England, showing that the whole
of the phenomena are deeply rooted in one common
source.
The following particulars are extracted from an
article by Dr. H. B. Storer, published in The Banner of
Light of January 9th last:—
MBS. COMPTON’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Mrs. Compton resides at Havana, New York, which is
reached from Boston by the Boston and Albany Bailroad and
New York Central Road to Geneva, thence by steamboat down
Seneca Lake to Watkins, and thence three miles by rail.
From New York City go by the Erie Eoad to Elmira, and
thence by rail it is a forty minutes’ ride to Havana.
I was introduced by letter to Dr. E. W. Lewis, of Watkins,
a pioneer Spirtualist, a practising physician in that town for
more than thirty years, and a man universally respected
and esteemed by the whole community, and I reached his
Jan. 29, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
51
house on Saturday morning, Dec. 26th, and found him fully
convinced, after long acquaintance with Mrs. Compton and
numerous seances with her—some of them at his own house—
extending through several months, of her entire truthfulness
and honesty as a woman, and of the great value and impor¬
tance of the phenomena which occur in her presence. As a
physician Dr. Lewis has made intelligent and valuable obser¬
vations of her condition when in the trance state, and would
not be likely to err in judgment regarding the pulseless and
almost lifeless being who is found in the deep trance after the
seances are closed. While conversing with the doctor, Mr. G.
C. Hibbard, of Watkins, fortunately came in. Mr. Hibbard
has attended nearly every seance for months past, and himself
possessing inspirational powers of a high order, and being
profoundly interested in these new developments, has almost
involuntarily glided into the position of conductor of the
seances. Some one has been found necessary to champion
the rights of the medium, in a community which seems to
have no conception of the reality of spiritual things, or of the
possibility of any genuine spiritual manifestations. I wish
here to bear witness to the noble and self-denying position of
Mr. Hibbard, who, in the midst of contumely and falsehood,
and threats of personal violence to this poor, weak and suffer¬
ing woman, has opposed the force of his own character, finely
expressed in his manly physique, as a barrier to the brutality
and prejudice which would very likely have crushed out her
mediumship if she had been obliged to stand alone.
APPEARANCE OE AN INDIAN SPIRIT.
Dr. Storer then narrates how the medium was called
in from her daily work in a black alpaca dress, and
entered the cabinet, which was whitewashed every¬
where and without crack or crevice; it had no other
entrance save the curtained opening. Soon the
“ double ” of the medium, robed in spotless white
drapery, came out, leaving the usual question on the
mind of the inquirer, “Was it the medium herself?”
Dr. Storer adds :—
But what could I think, when in not more than ten or
fifteen minutes after Katie’s disappearance, the door again
opened, and an Indian form, tall, erect, wrapped in a blanket
gathered at the waist, with mocassins and leggings, and
wearing a circlet about the head, and what seemed to me a
long black feather (although some of our party thought there
were two or more feathers), stepped majestically out of the
cabinet and confronted us. Observing his position against the
casing of the door, I afterwards measured his height1, finding
him to be eight and one-half inches taller than the medium.
He called to us to sing “ Johnny Bown,” and led off himself,
standing by the door for a few minutes, and then marched as
closely to us as Katie-had done, patted me on the arm, and
shook Mr. Hibbard’s hand, which was free, vigorously. He
remained probably five minutes, entered the cabinet, and
again came out. At my request he stood against the white
wall, where his whole form could be fully seen, and reached
above the door, tearing down some dried evergreen wreaths
that had been hung there by the medium, which at first he
persistently refused to do, as he said “ the medie would be
mad.” He walked to the stairs, bending over the railing and
looking down, and then returned to the cabinet door, standing
by which he gave the war-whoop, an ear-piercing and blood-
quickening yell that might have been heard a long distance if
in the open-air. After his disappearance conversation with
some half dozen voices was kept up for nearly an hour, three
hours being occupied with the whole seance.
AMERICAN REPORTS OE SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
The most valuable part of the article, indeed the
portion which induced us to quote it at all, is that in
which Dr. Storer gives evidence that he was present at
a seance at which there was no duplication of form.
In England the evidence of duplication of form, in
some cases, has now so accumulated, as to be absolute,
and absolute evidence of the duplication of hands can
be obtained at any time through the mediumship of
Mrs. Pay or Mr. Williams, for materialised spirit hands
are almost daily at work through their mediumship,
while their own hands and feet are held by disbelievers.
The proofs of duplication of the whole form, in certain
cases, are in the proportion, perhaps, of one out of
every fifty of the full-form seances which have been
held, and whether there was duplication of form at the
remaining forty-nine seances, there has, in this country,
been no absolute evidence. America has not helped
us to the evidence, for the seanees there have been
generally reported in such a slipshod manner, and with
such a desire to describe something wonderful, that,
notwithstanding the wider range of phenomena ob¬
served, we do not think that, in one single in¬
stance, any writer to the Banner of Light has had the
moral courage to state that the “Katie’s” and their
kindred materialised there, are the doubles in appear¬
ance of the mediums. Of course we do not include the
“ recognisable face manifestations ” in this category,
since they belong to a different class of materialisations.
Even in the article before us Dr. Storer says nothing
about the amount of resemblance of the features of
Katie, or those of the Indian, to the medium, which is
a palpable defect in his narrative. Although in England
we have not a quarter of the range of phenomena to
examine, possessed by our American brethren, the
scientific knowledge of the actual facts is broader and
deeper, because they have been put fully on record.
This has sometimes been done at the expense of great
temporary trials to the media, the real phenomena
being sometimes surrounded by what the outer world
naturally supposes to. be very suspicious conditions, and
not a little credit is due to Mrs. Corner (Miss Cook) for
the manner in which she asked Dr. Purdon, Mr. Harri¬
son, and others to publish the failures at her seances, to
make known all the facts connected with them, since
whatever those facts were, she was not responsible for
them; they were due to the action of an intelligent
power outside herself.
In one part of his narrative Dr. Storer says:—“ A
weird phantom, bearing the semblance of a woman, and
clothed in a flowing costume of white, glided out.” In
England we have never seen these full-forms “ glide,”
or resemble “weird phantoms,” though truly one or
two Yorkshire Spiritualists have recorded some seances
in which they put in some “ gliding.” Half length
materialised forms can however float and glide in a
weak light; for instance, John King frequently floats
steadily to the ceiling at the seances of Mr. "Williams.
EVIDENCE AGAINST DUPLICATION OE FORM.
As already published in these pages, there is evidence
that on some occasions there has not been duplication
of form at materialisation seances, and at the great
majority of seances there is no conclusive evidence either
one way or the other. The best evidence of a case in
which there was no duplication is the following,
narrated by Dr. Storer:—
On Monday morning, accompanied by Mr. Hibbard and two
ladies whom I had requested to go with me, to act as a com¬
mittee of investigation, I went to Havana, and found Mrs.
Compton in a very weak and nervous condition. She had
been without sleep for three nights, and was so unwell that it
seemed cruel to ask her to sit. However, she desired to
accommodate me for the sake of the Banner readers, before
whom, I told her, I should spread out these facts. Our
company numbered eleven persons in the circle room. By
my request, Mrs. Compton acquiescing without a murmur,
my lady friends entered her bed-room, saw her completely
divested of clothing, with the exception of two under-gar¬
ments, and then saw her draw on a pair of her husband’s
pantaloons. The basque of her alpaca dress, without the
skirt, was then put on, after careful search to render it cer¬
tain that no extra clothing could be secreted. Then in my
presence, the basque was sewed by its points on each side to
52
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 29, 1875.
the pantaloons, and a ribbon which I tied with two knots
closely around her neck was sewed through the knots, and
each end of the ribbon sewed to the collar of the basque, so
that she had on a closely-fitting coat and pantaloons, sewed
together, and so attached by a ribbon around the neck that
the clothing could not be drawn up or down. A pair of black
gloves was then drawn upon the hands, and sewed tightly
around the wrists. I then put round her waist a piece of
cotton twine, tying it in two hard knots behind, and the same
piece of twine was tied by double knots to the back of the
chair on which she sat.
Under these conditions, our semicircle was formed as above
described, hands without gloves appearing first at the aper¬
ture ; and soon the voice of Mr. Webster was heard saying
that there was very little power, as the medium was utterly
exhausted by too frequent sitting and too much care, but
they would do what was possible. He did not think Katie
could be materialised. Mr. Hibbard and myself urged that
all the power be concentrated upon that one object, and were
promised the attempt. After singing for perhaps twenty-five
minutes, with occasional intermissions to hear remarks by
the voices, it was announced that Katie would appear. Very
slowly the door opened, and the light had to be carefully
adjusted before she ventured fully to appear; but soon her
entire form was seen, dressed exactly as before—trailing skirts,
veil and mantle, but with a belt which she gathered in her
hands and rubbed together that we might hear its silken
rustle. Standing by the door, she addressed me, saying that
when she had walked entirely away from the cabinet, she
wished me to go in quickly and without moving the chair,
feel after the medium and all about the cabinet, and see if I
could find her. She stepped out about five feet into the
room, and at once I sprang into the cabinet, felt in the chair,
swept the floor and the walls thoroughly with my hands, but
not a vestige of medium or anything remained.
I came out and resumed my seat, Katie passing along the
line of spectators, touching them, and on reaching me, bent
over and kissed me twice upon the left cheek ; also placing
her handkerchief to my face, and allowed the delicate lace of
her veil to touch my hand. “ Katie,” I asked, “ what ma¬
terial is your veil made of ?” “You needn’t look for any, for
you couldn’t find anything like it on earth,” she said. “ Is
your dress of the same material ?” “ No—no, different.”
“ Katie, could you appear with jewellery ?” “ Yes—yes, if
there was power enough—power nearly gone !” She returned
to the cabinet, and soon again appeared, but remained but a
few moments. The voice of “ Seneca’’ was then heard, saying
he could not come out. “ No power—medie sick—’most dead
—no power; but he would try !” And soon, to our astonish¬
ment, his tall, erect figure stood outside the door. The light
was less bright than on former occasions, but enough to see
his bare arm as he stretched it out, reaching above the door,
and then, at my request, he struck his open palm with great
force three times upon the wall. He was dressed apparently
as usual, but the power being so much exhausted, he did not
go along the entire line of visitors, but came over directly to
me, patting me on the hand, and then returned to the door.
In his broken English he expressed his love for Dr. Willis,
Dr. Storer, Dr. Lewis, and “ love for all,” and with a com¬
mand to me to tell pale-faces “ medie no humbug—he good
Injun,” &c., he gave first what he calls the peace-whoop, and
then, at my earnest request, the ringing war-whoop, and was
gone.
The light was turned mp, the closet door opened, and in the
chair, tied as we had left her, without the breaking of a
thread, or the. apparent movement of her person, or in any
respect differing from her appearance when last seen, sat the
medium, in that fearfully lifeless trance, from which nearly
half an hour was required to arouse her.
I will not extend this article by appending any speculations
of my own upon this most marvellous exhibition. I submit
the facts, and vouch for their entire accuracy.
The Marylebone Association will hold its annual con¬
cert on Monday, February 22nd, at Seymour Hall, Lower
Seymour-street, Portman-square,
Passed to Spirit Lies.—On Monday, last week, Mr.
Samuel Guppy passed to the higher life, at an advanced age,
during his stay at St. Ann’s Hill, Cork. His many kindly
traits, and the important part he has taken in connection
with the early history of Spiritualism, will cause his name to
be remembered ages hence by all workers in the movement.
His earlier day's were spent in Bristol, and during a large por¬
tion of his earthly career he lived in India. .
AN EXTRAORDINARY TEST SEANCE.
Oh Wednesday evening last week, a private seance
was held near Hyde Park, through the mediumship of
Mrs. Fay, at which the test manifestations were exceed¬
ingly conclusive. We have no authority to mention
the names and addresses of any of the observers, Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Harrison excepted, hut among
the witnesses were some members of Parliament, and
other influential spectators. As the seance took place
in a private house, which Mrs. Fay had never entered
before, the tests were of an unusually severe character.
The hands of Mrs. Fay were first firmly bound
together behind her back with strips of calico, the first
step in binding them being to tie one strip round each
wrist separately, with from five to eight double knots,
the first one so close to the skin of her wrists, that by
no possibility could her hand be slipped through the
first loop. Next her hands were firmly bound together
behind her back, and the final knot was sealed. She
then seated herself close against one of the shutters of
the drawing-room, in which shutter a screw, with an
iron loop at the end, had been fixed; her bound hands
were firmly fastened to the loop of this iron screw. A
strip of calico was tied round her neck, and knotted
behind; she was then fixed by the neck to another
screw in the shutter, so that she could not move her
head more than one or two inches. Next a lady tied
both her feet together with a rope, the end of which
rope was brought out into the room, and held by one of
the company, to make sure that she did not move her
feet during the seance. A shawl was next fastened to
one corner of one side of the window recess, and one of
the visitors occasionally held up the other corner, so as
to stretch the shawl across the recess. Mrs. Fay was
thus shut out of sight, with the exception of her tied
feet, which projected below the shawl. While in this
helpless condition, the shawl was raised occasionally,
for the space of about half-a-minute at a time, during
which musical instruments were played, whistles were
blown, bells rang, figures were cut out of pieces of
paper, upon which pieces some of the visitors had pre¬
viously put their signatures, to make sure the papers
were not changed, and several other remarkable effects
were produced. A pail was taken out of her lap and
placed upon her head, and a glass containing water was
raised from her lap and held to her mouth to drink.
When the shawl was dropped, the glass—three parts
empty—was found sticking in her mouth, she holding
on to it by her teeth. The knots were examined
instantly after most of the manifestations, and found
to be intact.
Some of the visitors present made a desperate attempt
to explain away the facts, by suggesting that she did
all these things with her mouth, although her head was
firmly fixed to an iron screw by means of the bandages
round her neck, and notwithstanding that the power
had cut out patterns with scissors. Accordingly, a
handkerchief was tied over her mouth, and to make
sure it could not be removed while the shawl hid her
from view, a postage stamp was fixed to each of her
cheeks, one half of the stamp being upon her face, and
the other half upon the edge of the handkerchief. When
this test was suggested to Mrs. Fay, she instantly
accepted it with the greatest pleasure, with the jocular
remark-fhat “ they had better get a big handkerchief,
since her mouth was a large one.”
A legal gentleman present remarked that the only
solution of the difficulty was the presence of a trained
Jan. 29, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
53
tame monkey concealed under her dress, but this ex¬
planation had to be abandoned, since before'the seance
began, she, by her own desire, had been searched by
some of the ladies. As a last resource the lady of the
house ironically suggested that she did it all with the tip
of her nose, which was consequently recommended to
be sealed, but this "was, perhaps, thought to be too
great a sarcasm upon the credulity of unreasoning scep¬
ticism, for it was not done.
Afterwards the dark seance began. Mrs. Fay was
held by both hands, by a stranger to her,—by one who
was a most inveterate disbeliever in the phenomena of
Spiritualism. He also placed his feet on both sides of
Mrs. Fay’s feet to make sure she did not move them.
Mr. Crookes sat behind Mrs. Fay, and had his hands
on one of her shoulders, and a lady present sat with
her hands upon the other shoulder. The guitar, and
other musical instruments were in the room. The
light was put out, and the guitar began to move over
the heads of some of the spectators. Soon it began to
play, and Mrs. Fay said that she was perfectly sure
that none of her spirits were playing it, so it must be
one 'of the sitters.
In reference to the consciousness of the medium in
this matter, it may be stated that Mr. Williams has told
us that when the spirits take up any instrument from
the table, he knows what instrument it is, and if any
persons present touch one of the instruments, he is
conscious that they are meddling with them, although
he cannot tell why he is aware of the fact. Mrs. Fay
says her experience in this respect is exactly the same.
At all events, on this occasion she said that one of
the sitters was fingering the strings of the guitar, and
soon afterwards the guitar was dashed with some
violence at the feet of a lady present, upon which Mrs.
Fay broke up the dark seance, those holding her testify¬
ing that she had been motionless all the time that the
lights had been extinguished.
Mr. Henry Woods, of the Times newspaper, once
told us that he had tied and fixed Mrs. Fay in an abso¬
lutely secure manner, to one of the pillars in the Crystal
Palace, and obtained similar results to those mentioned
in this article, and which he could not explain. The
editor of the London Figaro once published a .long
article about the said results, and concluded by remark¬
ing that they were simply inexplicable.
During one of the experiments described in this
article, Mr. Crookes asked Mrs. Fay to order the curtain
to be dropped prematurely, in order, if possible, that all
present might see the guitar in the air. This was done,
though not quickly enough to show the guitar floating,
but instead of the instrument being thrown away from
her, as on other occasions, the handle of the guitar was
towards her hands. The truth is that all the mani¬
festations were done by the rapid materialisation and
de-materialisation of two spirit hands, which came off
her own and returned to them, as at most materialisa¬
tion seances, and if they could be seen by the spectators,
they would be found to be duplicates of her own hands
in appearance. The spirits have evidently concentrated
their power to do this simple manifestation well, rather
than to produce a greater variety of weaker effects,
since no medium can be very great in all directions at
once. The same rapid retreat of the hands which made
the handle of the instrument fly towards Mrs. Fay, has
often been observed when deceitful persons, among
ostensibly friendly sitters, have struck lights at dark
seances; on such occasions the instruments have been
seen flying towards—and sometimes actually within—
the outstretched hands of the mediums, much to their
chagrin, the materialised hands and the real hands
being drawn towards each other by the necessitated
sudden union of the two.
Manifestations through Mrs. Fay’s mediumship
usually take place with almost the same precision and
accuracy as experiments in physics.
A TRANCE ADDRESS BY MRS. TAPPAN.
(Conclusion.)
The following are concluding extracts from1 the trance
address delivered by Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan at Birmingham:—
The spirit-world in its simplest manifestations answers the
question—‘How can a spirit act upon matter ? By saying that
every spirit inhabits a material form, which is not palpable to
your external senses, but nevertheless is to it material, and
the spirit acts upon that form just the same as you act upon
your forms. If spirit cannot act upon matter, then you
cannot act upon your own bodies, Deity cannot act upon the
universe, and the whole system of creation is chimerical.
“ But,” say objectors, “ we do not perceive the connecting
link between a disembodied spirit and tangible objects like
tables and chairs. .We are obliged to lift them with our hands
or with some adequate mechanical appliances.” The spirit-
world says, we have in spirit-life other qualities and other
properties which are at our command. You are aware that there
are impalpable elements surrounding each individual, and
those persons denominated mediums possess an aura or im¬
palpable atmosphere which nevertheless is composed of atoms,
and this is the substance which spirits employ to control
tangible bodies, and which you could employ by force of will
if you understood the necessary process, and which, when the
matter becomes sufficiently explainable to your senses, as
chemistry and astronomy are, you will employ instead of the
dull, mechanical processes that now occupy you. A single
effort of the will causes you to raise your hand and change the
place of a chair with that hand. Now, if you understood that
between you and that chair is a subtle fluid, that if
you knew the laws controlling it, you could also govern
it, you would find the new process of raising the
chair very easy. The human will has not yet discovered
this, and it has remained for the spirit-world to reveal
this to mankind. The world of science says, “What new
force or element in nature has been revealed by Spiritualism?”
Witness the force of moving tangible and weighty substances
without any known mechanical appliance. (Applause.) The
next step in the process of investigation is the importance of
the fact that the two worlds are united and connected by intel¬
ligent communication. Professor Huxley says it does not
matter, supposing these things are true, one would not wish to
sit all day in the post office, or to listen to the jargon of feeble
old women talking. But he knows that is not the point. It
does not matter what nonsense comes from the world of
spirits, since it is inhabited by just such people as are daily
going out of your earth. (Applause). But can they speak at
all? If they can, that fact is of more importance than any
other that can be known. It is important to the recipient of
a letter that the post office is an avenue of communication;
and it is important to those who wish to send a telegraphic
message to a friend that there is such a means of conveying
that message; and while all the world does not wish to hear
what all the rest of the world has to say to one another, if
there is a particular person that you wish to hear from, you
should be anxious to know, “Is there the means ? ”, and the
great question occupying human thought from birth to death
is, “ Is there any means of knowing what lies beyond death?”
(Applause.) And if that question can be successfully answered,
it solves a painful and peculiar doubt which haunts from the
very years of childhood to old age, the majority of mankind.
The very business of Spiritualism is to solve this question to
every individual mind; to make it known to humanity that
there is a process whereby the two worlds can hold communion
with one another, and to point out that it is not an unnatural
process, that it is not a process removed from human thought,
that it is not supernatural, but only super-mundane, and that
it belongs as legitimately to the next step in science as elec¬
tricity and magnetism belonged to the steps that had been
previously taken, and that it must of necessity take the place
of and fill in that void and chasm that has existed between
54
THE SPIRITUALIST. Jan. 29, 1875.
man’s spiritual and his material nature, by extending the uni¬
verse beyond the mere line of the senses, to that impalpable
and imponderable, yet real existence, which constitutes the
chief portion of human life after all. The dead sea-level of
the human senses, to which science must always solve and
bring every question connected with matter, does not of neces¬
sity refer to that portion of humanity which is not imme¬
diately and directly amenable to the laws of so-called matter.
For that portion there must be a new set of laws discovered,
and this one step of pointing to the communication, or means
of communication, between the two worlds, is a solution of
these laws. We do not presume to say that these steps of
investigation are as yet carefully classified, or that these laws
can as yet be distinctly made known and practised by each
one in his own library; but we do say that the theory and the
facts have been so far attested and explained as to belong to
the next step of scientific inquiry in the world, and to consti¬
tute the next scientific discovery and basis in human thought;
and that it will be no more strange to admit and attribute
any fact or occurrence to the presence of spiritual agency than
it is now strange to say, “ Oh, that is the result of electricity,”
or, “ The telegraph wires were out of order last night, and
delayed all the messages.” These are all admitted now:
a century ago the name of electricity was like Greek to the
majority of mankind. (Applause.)
This subtle law, as we have stated, also brings a conscious¬
ness of the future state within the region of human probabi¬
lity and thought. The difficulty about all religions and
theologies in the past has been that they have put this ques¬
tion too far away, making man’s spiritual nature a separate
thing, making it remote and too far removed. This does not
claim to be a theology, but it bridges over that wide chasm
between the supposed spirit and matter, by pointing out that
the region of spirit is very much nearer than mankind have
supposed, and that in reality, as the ancient poet, Hesiod,
said, “ Millions of spiritual beings walk the earth unseen.”
Milton expresses this from the Greek poet, and thousands
have admitted it in their speculations and imaginations ; but
the reality of it has scarcely dawned upon any except those
who have the palpable proofs connected with Spiritualism.
But that this should be so, and that these millions of spiritual
beings have been seeking and are now expressing their exist¬
ence by this method, and that they come upon you and influence
you, even though unconsciously to yourself, has been a favourite
belief taught by many religionists. “ Guardian angels,” “the
presence of the unseen host,” the “ cloud of witnesses,” the
Various processes of religious inspiration—there must be a
law for these, and the law must be amenable to the intuitive
department of human consciousness, to which we have re¬
ferred, and Spiritualism offers the external expression of that
which always has been in existence, but which the world has
not been ready to receive as a science until to-day. (Applause.)
What has Spiritualism revealed concerning the spiritual
world ? It has revealed, as we have stated, by the testimony
of every spirit which has manifested itself since the beginning
of Spiritualism, that it is a continuation of life, that the
identity of the spirit commences when it leaves off upon earth,
that the consciousness, the affections, the intelligence are the
same, that it is the putting off a garment merely, and
awakening in another stage of the same kind of existence;
that there is in reality no darkness, no terror, nothing con¬
nected with the change called death more than there is with
the change called sleep, which you go to nightly, because you
are aware that to-morrow you will waken, but in death the sleep
has an awakening in another stage of existence. The human
spirit tells you that the spirit world is that world which lies
all around the earth and beyond its atmosphere, composed of
those fine substances which you cannot perceive with the
senses, but which like electricity and magnetism may be set
in motion and made palpable to the senses; and that the
aura which surrounds the earth, and the atoms of which the
spirit world is composed are just as palpable and are as much
arranged in forms and governed by laws, as are the atoms
and forms arranged and governed in the material world; that
they do not of necessity correspond to, or resemble, or are the
exact prototypes of those forms found on earth, but are
adapted to the nature of the spirit in the same way that
earthly forms and surroundings are adapted to the nature of
humanity. In other words,that wonderful spiritual life is a con¬
tinuation of existence, and should be prepared for here very
much as the child prepares in the primary school for the
higher departments of learning; just in proportion to the
advancement that you attain on earth, so will be your starting
point in the world of spirits, and just in proportion as you are
backward and slothful, and ignorant and unspiritual, so will be
your starting point in the world of spirits : in other words, each
human being here present to night, were death suddenly to come
would waken to-morrow with precisely the same mental status
and moral condition in which he left this earth; the beginning of
the future life is just as you have prepared the way by your
earthly life. Nothing can be plainer, nothing simpler, nothing
more natural, since death only disrobes you or relieves you of
that which is a superfluous form when the spirit no longer
requires it, since the spiritual body answers in its structure
and formation to the needs and requirements of the spirit in
its new-found state. But in the place of the five senses
which you require here, and which, if you will pardon us, are
only one sense after all—the spirit does not require those five
expressions, but has them in one sense, that is, perception.
And to prove to you that we are correct, you take a blind
person, and the sense of hearing absorbs the usual attention
that is given through sight; and the hearing and the touch
take the place of the sense of sight; so that the blind can
hear the approach of a footstep which you can by no means
hear, showing that all the force and tension of the mind are
expended in other directions when robbed of the one sense of
sight. A deaf person is very acute in vision and in feeling;
and will see things that ordinary mortals do not see, and will
understand by expression of countenance and features that
which you would require to be expressed in words. And take
a person blind, and deaf, and dumb, the sense of feeling
takes the place of sight, and of hearing, and of speech,
and these become so intensified that they can almost know
what is occurring in your thoughts. When disrobed of this
outward covering which organisation or accident may have
made blind or deaf, or impaired in some faculty, the spiritual
faculty of sense may be termed perception, which is vision
and hearing, and the senses all in one, and which pervades
and animates your bodies, making expression in these various
avenues of sense, but always in reality the attribute of the
spirit itself. For instance, many things pass before the eye
which you do not see. If it were the eye that saw you would
see them ; but it is your, thought, and you only see that which
attracts your attention or thought. Many sounds occur which
you do not hear, because your thought which is really that
which hears is intent upon something else; but when your
thought or attention is directed to the sound, you hear because
you are intent upon that sound. The artist, the speculator,
and the geologist go out into the same field. The artist sees
the variety of colour, the changes of hue, the landscape ; but
is not aware of the number of roods or acres of ground he is
travelling over, and he has no idea of their value in
pounds, shillings, and pence. The speculator goes and
he measures with steps of a pace each, and calculates
the exact amount of value in the land; but the colour of
the leaves he has never once thought of; while the
geologist, perhaps not noticing colour of leaves nor number
of acres, is intent upon the property of the soil, and
upon the period such and such a rock may have had its for¬
mation. They see with their thoughts, and you are astonished
to find upon visiting the same field, that neither of them
have seen articles in common, and you might naturally sup¬
pose it to be very contradictory evidence if you had heard it
from the spirit world concerning spiritual existence. (Ap¬
plause.) The spirit sees in the spirit world not what is there
only, but what he or she is adapted to see, and as each
person takes his own individuality and thought with them,
there are, doubtless, just as contradictory representations con¬
cerning the spirit world as come from these three different
men concerning a particular field. But, invariably, the
spirits tell you that they inhabit a real world; that that world
is adapted to their condition; that they perceive higher and
lower states ; and that every thought [and feeling and action
of life has made up a portion of their condition in spirit life.
Also the nature of their employments, which of course would
form a chapter by itself, must correspond t6 and accord with
their spiritual condition.
Mr. J. J. Morse is now lecturing in Boston, U.S.
Mr. Algernoit Joy, one of the honorary secretaries to
the British National Association of Spiritualists, and who for
some time past has been in Switzerland, expects to be in
Paris, at the Hotel des Deux Mondes, for a day, on or about
Sunday next, and will probably call on Spiritualistic friends
in the French capital. He will probably be present at the
National Association soirte next Wednesday. He will visit
Geneva and Boulogne on his way home.
Jan. 29, 1875.
THE SPIHITUALIST.
55
MAEVELLOUS DIRECT WRITING- BY SPIRITS.
The Ba/nner of Light (Chicago) of January 2nd, contains
the following account of the direct spirit writing so often
received in the presence of Dr. Slade, of New York, one of the
most powerful physical mediums in America:
By appointment, arrangements were made to give me a
seance with Dr. Henry Slade, of New York City, with the
following result: I entered the Doctor’s rooms in daylight,
and took a seat by the end of a large square-shaped table in
the seance-room, and the Doctor, after lowering the curtains
of the windows just enough to darken the room to the shade
of an ordinary sunset-light, took a seat on the side of the
table, near enough to me, so that we could grasp hands across
the corner of the table. He then passed a double slate to me
for examination. I found that the slate contained no writing
on its surface. He then bit off about one-sixteenth of an inch
of the end of a slate pencil, and placed it upon the upper side
of the under slate; the slate was then closed upon its hinges
so as to enclose the pencil withim He grasped one end of
the slate with his right hand, and I grasped the other end
firmly with my left hand; we then grasped hold of the other
hand of each other, holding the slate away from contact with
the table, and instantly I heard a scratching noise upon the inner
surface of the folded slates, as though a pencil were being used
for rapid writing upon the inside. Whenever we broke
the grasp between his left and my right hand the noise would
cease, and instantly proceed when we resumed our connection
of hands. In two minutes’ time, I should think, the noise
ceased ; and then the slate was opened, to find the inner
surface of both slates covered with a well-executed message,
which I transcribed to paper at once. It read as follows:—
“ Dear Friend,—We can see that this truth is spreading throughout
the land, east, west, north and south, because people are tired of faith,
and are now looking for common sense. Spiritualism has'had its strug¬
gles to bring man’s mind to the investigation of its truths. Our object
in coming is to make man understand the laws of his own being, and to
teach him the true love and law of God, and how necessary it is for all
to live true to themselves in order to be happy. Spirits have come to
earth in all ages, and always will, for God’s laws never change: they are
to-day as in the past, and for ever will be. A. W. Slade.’
A chair which stood upon the floor about six feet away from
the opposite cdrner of the table to us, commenced a series of
short jumps until it came near the table, and then retraced its
steps in a different direction. A small bell which lay upon the
floor directly under the centre of the table, floated around
underneath, and ever and anon would show itself plainly above
the edge of the table on the opposite side from us, ringing all
the while to indicate its position. An accordion would mea¬
sure out tunes when the Doctor placed his fingers lightly in
contact with it, although he did not exert any force or even
touch the proper place for the hands. He requested me to
take it in my hands to see if the spirits could play with me;
but they only succeeded in moving the bellows slightly, with¬
out producing any musical sounds. A materialised hand
showed itself a number of times above the edge of the table
opposite to us, and it also came out under the edge of the
table directly in front of me, and grasped hold of my beard,
and pulled it with considerable force, so that I could plainly
see the hand, and what was done. Both our hands were
placed upon the top of the table during all of the manifes¬
tations not otherwise indicated above. Owasso, his Indian
control, entranced him, and said that, if I came at a future
time in the evening, they would try and show me materialised
faces. John Brown Smith, M.D.
Amherst, Mass.
The Spikitual Magazine.—Mr. Thomas Shorter, who
for so many years has edited The Spiritual Magazine, gave up
his duties in that capacity at the close of the year 1874,
although he continues to write for its pages as heretofore.
During his editorial career Mr. Shorter won the respect of all
who knew him, because of his intimate acquaintance with the
historical phases of ancient and modern Spiritualism, because
of his literary and poetical ability, and because of his genial
characteristics. The Spiritual Magazine is now edited by Dr.
George Sexton, a chief representative of the Christian Spirit¬
ualists, and one whose intellectual capacity is undoubted.
Dr. Sexton announces that the Magazine will contain carefully-
written articles of permanent value. He informs us that
several of the old subscribers to The Spiritual Magazine do
not know the address of its new publisher ; they will find it
on reference to our advertising columns.
TRAVELLING IN THE SPIRIT.
In the string of curious experiences selected from the cor¬
respondence on Levitation, published in the Daily News, of
the 20th January last, the following is noteworthy :—
“ Airwalker ” relates the following :—I dreamed I was in
Venice; it was a fine moonlight night, but too warm to sleep.
I opened my window and left it, floating away through the
air, hovering lesurely and with the utmost ease from roof to
roof, and from terrace to terrace, over streets and canals, and
witnessing many curious sights in passing before open lighted
windows. Next morning, finding myself in extra good
humour, and excellent health, I remembered my interesting
nightly tour, but I never was in and knew I had never seen
Venice but on paper, and there certainly not the roofs and
higher terraces. I had quite forgotten this amusing nightly
promenade, when, two years later, I, for the first time, saw
Venice. I ascended the clock tower, and as soon as I emerged
from the narrow trap to the platform of the two gigantic
bronze figures, I gave one sweeping look round and knew at
once I had seen these very roofs before, and soon I remem¬
bered when and how. My guide seeing me shaking, holding
on the railing, and staring at the uninteresting roofs, asked
whether I was giddy, and called my attention to the adjoining
wonders of St. Mark’s Cathedral, &c. I assured him I was so
far from being giddy that I only wished for a pair of wings to
leave him and the platform for a reconnoitering promenade
through the air.
Compare this with the experience recorded by Shelley in his
fragmentary Speculations on Metaphysics in his Essays
and Letters from Abroad, &c., vol. i, 2,50.
“I was walking with a friend in the neighbourhood of
Oxford, engaged in earnest and interesting conversation. We
suddenly turned the corner of a lane, and the view, which its
high banks and hedges had concealed, suddenly presented
itself. The view consisted of a windmill standing in one
among many plashy meadows, enclosed with stone walls, the
irregular and broken ground between the wall and the road on
which we stood, a long low hill behind the windmill, and a
grey covering of uniform cloud spread over the evening sky.
The scene surely was a common scene, and the hour little
calculated to kindle lawless thought ; it was a tame uninterest¬
ing assemblage of objects. The effect which it produced on
me was not such as could have been expected. I suddenly
remembered to have seen that exact scene in some dream of
long 
“ Here I was obliged to leave off, overcome by thrilling
horror."
This remark closes the fragment, which was written in
1815.
The present writer may add that he has twice in dreams
been in fields, both times the same, evidently English, but as
ordinary and uninteresting as those described by Shelley. All
their features are perfectly visible to his mind’s eye, and he
has a secret intimate certainty that they exist, and that some
day he will behold them palpably. X.
Next Wednesday’s Soieee.—At the conversazione at
the Cavendish Booms on Wednesday next the chair will be
occupied by Mr. Martin B. Smith, one of the vice-presidents
of the National Association of Spiritualists. Mrs. Nos-
worthy, whose account of the bad effects produced by some
“ haunted furniture ” excited so much interest when pub¬
lished in these pages, will give a reading from one of the
English poets. Mrs. Nosworthy has often attracted large and
refined public audiences at Birkenhead by her dramatic
powers. Miss Beatrice Nosworthy is one of the youngest and
one of the best of trance mediums. Mr. Seward, a gentleman
who has come to England from California to bring out a new
musical invention, will exhibit and give an explanation of his
models, which merit the attention of all persons interested in
music. They have been examined and approved by some of
the leading composers in England, and by the great musical
firms, and promise to effect useful reforms in the inethod of
teaching music to the young and in the training of choirs.
The invention should have a special interest, music being the
most spiritual of the arts. A large number of tickets has
already been sold, and the meeting altogether is expected to
be a good one. Further particulars will be found in our
advertising columns.
56
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 29, 1875.
SPIRIT MUSIC.
Murmurings on the waters,
Murmufings on the sea,
For earth’s invisible daughters,
Are breathing words to me.
We are waiting, we are waiting, on the shores of this better land,
We are singing, we are singing, in solemn strains and grand;
We are happy though we see that thou art pained and troubled now,
For we see the light of spirit-life that hovers round thy brow.
There is music ever playing, playing in this better land,
Solemn music to encourage the upward-struggling band;
Sometimes you catch it in your slumber, or feel it in your heart:-—
You will hear it swelling sweetly when the soul and body part;
MarGuebite, through the mediumship of Mrs. K. C.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
INVOCATIONS, AlTD THE INSPIRATION OF BARRY CORNWALL.
Sib,—The time was when poets would invoke the Muses.
That time has passed, and the poet’s thoughts flow forth in
harmonious numbers quite as well without the invocation.
My dear old friend, Barry Cornwall, the poet, who passed away
from life but the other day, at the age of eighty-six—the
schoolfellow of both Byron and Peel—often told me how the
idea, in verse, came into his mind, he could not say from
whence, but certainly with no effort or conscious predispo¬
sition on his part. He might be at the time in an omnibus, or
in the crowded street, it seemed all the same ; and he would
often run into a shop for a piece of paper on which to in¬
scribe the lines.! It is to be remarked, that the thoughts of
such “ inspired” moments do not hold to the memory, some¬
what as it is with the entranced somnambule—with a life
within a life as it were, for man is more of a compound
nature than is supposed, and his mind is a council chamber
determining the choice, the executive will, and the impulse to
action. Now, sir, many spirits have pronounced very de¬
cidedly against the practising prayer at spiritual circles and
inspirational addresses at public meetings, being convinced
that it is quite unnecessary, and that it amounts to a super¬
stition, and very many Spiritualists are of the same mind.
At least it is so regarded by the outer world and men of
science. There is no objection to music, vocal or instru¬
mental, the measure and harmony of which seem to have
a spirit-stirring influence; in fact, music was used by Mesmer
long since. Also, we know not what certain fumes and per¬
fumes, or incense, &c., might do in respect to conditioning
the medium and those present. The question of conditions
has yet to be investigated, but is of course the root of the
whole question, and the first step in science. We know that
the inspiration of the oracles was ascribed to certain fumes
arising from the soil of a particular spot, and no doubt there
was reason for the belief. Depend upon it the means re¬
quired are to be found in nature and in the conditions that
surround us, and that all prayer and supplication and invo¬
cation are superfluous, and are, in fact, superstition. These
inspirational addresses remind me of the improvisatore of
Italy, who used no invocation, yet would speak for an hour
in verse on any given subject, and all very clever, but with
seldom anything worth recording. Henby G. Atkinson.
18, Rue de la Douaine, Boulogne, France.
•RECOGNISABLE SPIRIT FACES.
Sib,—I beg to state that having lately attended two of the
materialisation seances given by the American mediums,
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor, at their rooms, 2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, W.C., on the evenings of Wednesday
and Saturday, 20th and 23rd instant, successful results and
marvels were witnessed which I think should be made known
to the readers of your widely-circulated journal.
At the seqnce given on Wednesday evening there were ten
sitters, exclusive of the mediums; amongst those sitters were
myself and Mrs. Regan, Mrs. Woodforde, Miss Woodison, Mr.
Reynolds, and Mr. Smith. After the dark seance, which was
very satisfactory, we sat for materialisations, in double row,
facing an extemporised black curtain with square aperture,
suspended from top of the door-frame at entrance to .the bed¬
room. To the left of the curtain was placed a chair, about
three feet therefrom, with a lamp, enclosed in a white square
screen, which threw a mellow, subdued light on the whole.
The first recognised face to appear was that of my wife’s
brother, who departed this life in Australia, some years ago;
and a most startling manifestation it certainly was, for on his
being recognised he smiled, bowed, and kissed his hand to his
sister, Mrs. Regan. The sound of the kiss was heard; he then
disappeared, and reappeared, looking very happy, and said
distinctly—“God bless you!” He disappeared, and again
finally reappeared, smiling, and in a natural manner bade us
“ Good-night 1” kissing both his hands to his sister at the
same time. We all heard him.
The next to appear was a young lady who had been the
wife of a gentleman who was present, and he soon recognised
her. She kissed her hands to him, and was distinctly seen by
the whole of the company. Several others followed in succes¬
sion, two being remarkable and historical personages—Mary,
Queen of Scots, who appeared very natural-looking, and the
late Emperor Napoleon, who looked just as when he departed.
He reappeared several times and bowed to Mr. Reynolds,
whom he knew personally when here. A very beautiful nun
appeared, and was recognised by Mrs. Woodforde ; she bowed
to me, and held her hands as if in prayer. The last to appear
was Mr. Reynolds’s brother, which was as striking a manifesta¬
tion as Mrs. Regan’s brother. Mr. Reynolds asked him to
speak. He replied by saying—“ It cost him such an effort
an expression, it appears, he very often used when in the
flesh. He reappeared several times, looking as natural as when
here, smiling, and pulling his long beard apart, as was his
habit when on earth.
The seance of Saturday evening was similar to the one de¬
scribed herein, the relatives of the sitters making themselves
as strikingly manifest, especially the second materialisation
of Mrs. Regan’s brother, who again appeared, and whose voice
was louder and stronger when he spoke.
Amongst the sitters at the latter seance were Capt. James,
of Tottenham, his son and gentleman friend, Mr. Smith,
myself and Mrs. Regan, Mrs. Wilkes, Mrs. Woodforde, Miss
Lottie Fowler, and Mrs. Bullock, whose mother and sister
materialised beautifully, and were distinctly seen. Likewise
the husband of Mrs. Wilkes, his gold spectacles looking so
real and distinct that you felt you could take them from his
eyes.
The wonderful success of these marvellous materialisation
seances is to be attributed to the special and rare phase of
mediumship possessed by those young gentlemen Messrs.
Bastian and Taylor, in being gifted with the power of bring¬
ing our dearest ones again to be seen and conversed with. In
conclusion, I would suggest that it is most essential that the
circle should be harmonious and passive to get successful
manifestations, and particularly that no one of the sitters at
the seances should cavil about too much or too little light,
George, the controlling spirit of the circle, being the best
judge of such matters. James Regan.
4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth,
January 23,1875. '
MATTER AND SPIRIT.
Sib,—The following spirit message, given to me in 1866, in
reply to the questions put by a friend, will, I think, be accep¬
table to some of your readers. I have several times recently
seen this subject—the connection between “ Spirit and
Matter ”—mentioned in the spiritualistic papers, and on that
account have chosen this message as, perhaps, suitable for the
present time:—
Question.—What is Matter ? Is it an essence coeval with
creation, and the contrary to spirit ? or, is it the aggregation
of centres of forces, acting on our material perceptions;
denser, because less utilised by the life of God, and more so
in proportion as it recedes from the divine ? if so is there not
truth in the ancient eastern belief, that matter is evil in itself
in proportion to its density ?
Answer.—Matter is essential to spirit, even as spirit is
essential to matter. The Holy Spirit of God is embodied in a
spiritual body of the Father. Is it at all possible to conceive
of spirit—which is essence—^without some degree of materi¬
ality, so called now ? Not in your earthly manner of using
that term, but, as the force thrown off, and embodied into sur¬
roundings by the presence of life or spirit.
God, the Great Creator is. From Him all things are
formed.
The fact of substances being condensed together, forming
visible living things, proves the fact of the natural presence
of a degree of materiality, or rather substantiality and reality,
which would not be possible if spirit were spirit only, so to
speak. But there is as vast and wondrous a difference in the
Jan. 29, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST. 57
degrees of the density of matter, as must always exist between
the different spirit spheres, from the highest and holiest, even
down to the lowest, coarsest, and most evil. The lower on
the scale of existence, from spirit angelic down to men’s
earth, the denser becomes the materiality. And from evil
comes the intense materiality of this earth.
Beality is different from, and yet in a degree corresponds
to, materiality.
Materiality is the reality which is cast off and con¬
densed from evil—as reality is thrown off and condensed from
the high and pure essence of divine life, in the varied forms of
spirit.
Thus animal life is one of the throwings-off, or emanations of
spirit life, which vary with the scale of density, down to the
evil emanations and purely earthly creations, and forms of
evil.
The term “ material” thus is an earthly term to apply to
the intensely coarse materiality produced by the density of
evil.
Otherwise, the correspondences “reality and spiritual
substantiality,” being the correspondence to material sub¬
stance, evil only consists in the intensity and power which it
has wrought to attract evil to evil, and over good to encrust,
as it were, a dense form.
Question.—Clairvoyants say that spirit germs attract to
themselves material atoms from their surroundings. What
does this mean ?
Answer.—It applies entirely to the auras of attraction and
repulsion, by which all things in God’s universe are preserved
in their order.
Any germ of spirit-life must necessarily attract matter’ or
substance around it, in which it becomes clothed in bodily
form. In process of time, as evil is subdued, the intensity of
the materialism of the earthly body will pass away, and man
even in the body will become more spiritualised. Ere this
can be fiery trials must come, the world-soul, so to speak,
must take the spiritual body form, and pass into a higher
state. Thereby will the aura of the entire atmosphere of the
earth’s universe become purified, evil annihilated or overcome.
Then and thus shall the prophecy of the new earth and
heavens be fulfilled and the end of earthly things will be at
hand. E. J. T.
St. Leonard's-on-Sea.
SWEDENBORGIAN" PROBLEMS.
Sir,—I find in your issue of Jan. 15th a communication
from a respected friend (Dr. Berridge), in which he cites a
passage from the writings of T. L. Harris, relative to a defect
on the part of the Apostles, in their not organising the Infant
Christian Church, as an industrial Christian institution, the
outcome of the pure doctrines of their Divine Master.
T. L. Harris has taken exception to certain statements, here
and there, in the writings of Emanuel Swedenborg, though he
considers Swedenborg to have been the first in whom internal
respiration returned to the natural consciousness. And he
coincides with most that Swedenborg has written, especially
his doctrinal utterances.
He also protests strongly, in The Herald of Light, against
either Swedenborg’s or his own writings being taken as infalli¬
ble, or as final truth.
Now, it appears to me, that it was utterly impossible for the
Apostles to do what Mr. Harris says they are not to be con¬
sidered free from blame for not attempting.
Our Saviour conquered all the hells, and led captivity cap¬
tive. But He did not do this for Himself alone. And, though
He cleared the world of spirits from all preponderance of infer¬
nal power, He could not clear it of that vast multitude with
whom mankind were in willing co-operation. And when we
remember that there is no possibility of man’s living without
connection with spirits, it is plain, that as there was no gene¬
ral assembly of Christian spirits in the spirit-world at that
time, there could be no such external institution of pure
life upon the earth, as would be proof against all external
corruption. It needed a true Christian Church in the spiritual
world, where good and evil are first separated, before there
could be one organised and established here. Hence the pri¬
mary cause of the early declension of the Christian Church.
This our Saviour foresaw and foretold, and also His second
advent, which second advent would not have been delayed if
all needful means had then existed in the world of spirits.
The reason why the powerful action of the Holy Spirit did
not continue, seems to have been that a powerful sphere then
existed in the lower regions of the spirit-world, consequent
upon, and for the effecting of, the lost judgment upon the
hells of those Who lived before the Lord’s advent; but this
sphere must necessarily have become weaker as Christians
arrived in that world, all of whom were only in the rudimen¬
tary states of the Christian life. Otherwise- they could not
have breathed there, either as progressing in their own states,
or as mediums for the advancement of Christians in this world.
And it seems to me that it is only as a consequence of the for¬
mation of the New Jerusalem above, and the execution of a
last judgment upon the descendants of the first or external
Christian Church in the world of spirits, that f ‘ internal respi¬
ration,” and a new Jerusalem on earth accompanying it, are
now possible.
Our Lord enjoined His Apostles’to preach the Gospel, to
baptise in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy
Spirit; but He did not command them to organise the Chris¬
tian Church. This, in truth, can only be done by Himself, as
now, the Church begins to breathe from Him, mediatorially,
through His New Church in the heavens. Preparatory to this
divine work, modern Spiritualism seems to me to be the
gathering and hewing of the rough materials, out of which the
Divine Architect is about to build His new tabernacle, that His
dwelling may be with men, and He may be their God.
Thomas Bobinson.
2, Hulme’s-road, Newton-heath.
THE RING TEST.
Sir,—I believe that a few facts occasionally contributed to
The Spiritualist, would be more acceptable to its readers, than
any amount of mere theorising.
On the present occasion I shall confine myself to the rela¬
tion of what appears to me a convincing proof of the truth of
one of the most extraordinary physical phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism, viz., “ the passage of matter through matter.”
On Tuesday, the 5th of January, Mrs. and . Miss Showers
kindly gave a dark seance at my house. After the usual
concert of spirit-voices, accompanied by Miss Showers on the
piano, the conditions were broken by one of the party leaving
the circle, and we adjourned for a short time to another room
for refreshment.
On our return to the room in which the seance was held,
we formed a new circle, consisting of only six people, and
a wooden ring, procured by me in London on that day, was
placed on the table in front of me. I held Miss Showers’ left
hand fast in mine, and pressed firmly against the table, so
that my hand was doubled with the knuckles upwards, the
medium’s right hand being held by my son.
. Soon after the gas had been extinguished, I heard the ring
move, it then lightly touched the back of my hand, and I
thought remained merely resting on it, without having accom¬
plished the test.
I called for a light and then found that the ring had really
passed on to my wrist, the upper part of the ring resting on
the .back of my hand. It must here be remarked that there
was not the slightest fumbling during the passage of the ring,
that the medium’s hand never moved, and that the ring is too
small to pass over my doubled fist, even when I am not hold¬
ing another person’s hand.
Of course this kind of test at any particular seance, can only
be perfectly convincing to one person, viz., the individual on
whose wrist the ring is passed, but I defy the cleverest con¬
juror in the world to perform by sleight-of-hand, the same
feat under the same conditions. I can safely assert that I was
not biologised. 1. James.
Tottenham, Jan. 19,1875.
THE SPIRITUALISM OELOTHAIR.”
Sir,—The deserved encomiums made by your Correspondent
“M. A.,” on Dr. Badcliffe’s article in the Contemporary Review of
December, entitled, "Man Transcorporeal,” where the principle
is laid down that “ No definition can apply to man’s spirit in
its fulness, except that which is equally applicable to the
Divine Spirit,” that in fact, to quote Addison, “ It is the
Divinity that stirs within us,” recalls an identical conclusion
expressed in the remarkable tale by Mr. Disraeli, called
Lothair.
It may be remembered how Mr. Disraeli there presents to
the reader a young man of more than average intellect, dis¬
tracted by the various religious problems and controversies of
the day, and carried through several trying phases of thought,
before the author lands him safely on a theory, as ennobling
as it was satisfying, that of man’s divinity.
Lothair, in the early stages of the tale, is much under the
influence of an American lady of no ordinary amiability and
58
THE SPIRITUALIST.
29, 1875.
intelligence, a Spiritualist who diverts him from what she con¬
siders a false step that he was about to take. She dies. After
her death he is, through a variety of circumstances, again
about to be drawn into the same snare as before, when he is
suddenly' surprised by the apparition of the American lady.
The spirit again addressed him with even more than her for¬
mer force and fervour, against what she considered his old dan¬
ger, and on this occasion, and under these unexpected circum¬
stances, her advice prevails.
Lothair next tried negation, but this attempt is attended
with but little success, for spiritual thoughts once aroused are
not so easily set aside. Still, however, his doubts were
neither finally settled nor his aspirations fully satisfied, until
he meets at Jerusalem with a Syrian sage, who convinces him
that, “ Man is divine.” Fortified by this hopeful assurance,
and not doubting its truth, he returns to England a contented
man, determined to live a life in conformity, as far as may be,
with this his great heritage and responsibility.
Mr. Disraeli has the character of “ levelling up,” but surely,
in the present instance at least, it would ill become me to
name this habit otherwise than with respect and acquiescence.
It seems evident that even the Spiritualism of this remark¬
able book, by means of which Lothair was enabled to act an
independent manly part in the face of many difficulties, signi¬
ficant as this is in itself, coming as it does from such a source,
was but secondary in the author’s mind to what appears to
have been the main object of the book, because, indeed, the
most important object, that of pointing out to man his true
position as man, his true greatness—greater could not exist—■
his divinity.
As Dr. Eadcliffe puts it, “ The spirit which animated man,
and pervades his body, is but a spark struck off from that
Divine Spirit which animated creation.” A spark, very far
gone from original perfection, original righteousness, we may
well exclaim. Truly so, very far gone indeed, as sparks incar¬
nated must necessarily be as a general rule, but still sparks.
Moreover, let it be remembered, that if it be once granted that
a man’s spirit is a spark struck off from the Divine Spirit
which animates the universe ; then, it naturally follows, that
every spirit must have existed before it was incarnated, and, if
once incarnated, why might it not be incarnated again ? for
what has happened once may always happen again. Once
admit incarnation, and reincarnation seems a natural conse¬
quence, and this one thing is certain, if reincarnation be a
truth, then a man’s final doom at his death becomes a myth.
The doctrine of reincarnation has been held, and is now
held by most of the higher religions, ancient and modern. It
is taught both in the Old and New Testaments, and had
gained so many followers among Christians in the middle
ages, under the name of Platonist Christians, that nothing
short of the sharpest persecution, supplemented by the curses
of the Athanasian Creed, could have suppressed it.
Further, it seems probable, that if man be really immortal,
his spirit must be either a spark of the great Central Divinity
which has had no beginning, or must be eternal in itself. We
cannot, so to speak, be immortal at one end, and that which
has had a beginning must probably have an end, at least of its
individuality.
May not the object of these sparks, being cast forth from
Divinity, being sent out, as it were, from the Paradise of Glory,
have been in order that each separate spark should learn the
knowledge of good and evil for itself ? so that, having learned
good from evil for itself, it might, by choosing for itself the
former, gravitate back in due season towards its great centre,
like seeking like, perfect as an independent and self-disciplined
individual, perfect as its Father in Heaven is perfect, but still
a self-disciplined being, possibly through much tribulation,
reaping its individual reward? I have said, ” Ye are Gods.”
Weymouth. '   M. A., Cantab.
SPIEITtTALISM IN EDINBURGH.
Sib,—In the last number of The Spiritualist, Edinburgh
gets the credit of being associated with Liverpool, Dalston,
and Newcastle, as possessing one of the.'* chief local societies
of Spiritualists in the country.” The fact, however, is that
“The Edinburgh Psychological Society” exists only upon
paper; no meetings have been held for many months ; at no
time did it number more than fifty members, if so many, and
I believe at the last meeting they had dwindled down to about
a dozen; in fact the society is defunct.
There must be a good many Spiritualists in Edinburgh, but
only a few have the' courage to avow their belief. The state
of Spiritualism here very much resembles what your corre¬
spondent Mr. Eendle says of it in Brixton.
Edinburgh. A SPIRITUALIST.
SEANCES WITH ME. CHAS. E. WILLIAMS.
Sib,—May I ask you to kindly give a place in your columns
to the following brief notice of public seances held by that
most deservedly popular medium, Mr. 0. E. Williams, during
the past fev? months, at 61, Lamb’s-conduit-street. The
public have become so well acquainted with the great and
continuous success of his spirit guide “John King,” that it
has almost appeared to friends a work of supererogation to
bring to public notice many accounts of the astounding
phenomena taking place there with so much regularity. For
Mr. Williams’ position has long become so well-established as
the leading professional medium for the materialisation of
spirit forms and the exhibition of “ John King’s” spirit light
or lamp, that many notices in print would have been some¬
times calculated to attract rather too many students of the
physical phenomena to his door on seance nights, so that the
“ horns of the dilemma” for him might have become a choice
between allowing too great a number of visitors to crowd his
rooms, or sending the hungry for good spiritual food empty
away. Still it may be gratifying to his numerous friends and
well-wishers at a distance to know not only of the continued
success of “ John King” on most public nights in the recorded
phenomena appertaining to his peculiar role, but also of
recent attempts, some fairly successful, to materialise during
the dark seance without the use of the cabinet. For some
months past I have watched these philanthropic spirit
attempts to introduce this new order of the phenomena with
much interest.
On the first or second occasion, about four months since,
when John King appeared lighted up at the dark seance with¬
out the use of the cabinet, I sat next the medium, and was
greatly impressed by perceiving how very much and suddenly
startled Mr. Williams himself was by that spirit’s unexpected
appearance at our side and over our heads. For at the cabinet
seances, the medium being always entranced, has not been
able to participate with his visitors in the act of handling the
spirit lamp, nor indeed do I believe he has yet seen it. One
Saturday evening lately, each and every sitter present, to the
number of ten, if I remember rightly, had the lamp placed
by John King on his or her hand, each for a few seconds, and
all I think felt, as I have repeatedly done, its warmth (very
slight), its weight, or the sensation as of weight, and its
hardness. Latterly, too, John King seems to make it one of
his strong points, inj order to meet all doubt or suspicion if
possible, to mount some nine feet or so to the ceiling, so that
any of the theorists who might take a fancy to the idea that
Mr. Williams had received the assistance of some spirit friend
to unloose his cords and melt the sealing wax upon them,
would be forced to resort to still further marvellous theorising,
and say that he had been elongated some three and a half
feet above his ordinary, stature of five feet ten. I find it
difficult to decide in my own mind whether the materialisa¬
tion and spirit lamp, the pleasant and friendly conversational
voice of John King, or the feats in spirit-photography in
which that spirit and his medium have taken part, should
be reckoned the greatest among these modern marvels.
I know that John King also must instruct occasionally the
spirit friends present of visitors to whom he is desirous of
showing more than his usual kindness, for very recently the
spirit of one who was very near and dear to me* found
power to speak softly into my ear, through the tube, words of
deep significance to myself; John King giving afterwards, in
his fine manly bass voice, without the trumpet, the continua¬
tion and ending of that communication.
The harmonium recently introduced to Mr. Williams’ seance
room, seems to be a great acquisition, doing much to pro¬
mote harmony in a brief time (when manipulated by the fine
touch of Mr. H., and accompanied by his musical voice) in
all minds present, even if a discordant one should happen
to be among them. And when on the subject of music, I
may mention a little novelty which lately happened to myself
in that department of an evening’s entertainment at one of
these seances. On one of the evenings, when several hats
were brought by the spirit Peter, and placed on their owners’
heads correctly in the dark ; mine, after having been placed
very awkwardly indeed at first on mine, to which I called
attention, was afterwards instantly altered to the most
fashionable position, and then used as a small pianoforte, two
small spirit hands on the crown keeping the best of time to
the musical box which Peter had just wound up and started,
much to the merriment of all present, as well as my own. On
that evening, great harmony had prevailed in our circle, and
the medium was in fair health also. Though the drain upon
his physical powers is often very great when holding a large
Jan. 29, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
59
number of seances, private as well as public, yet his spirit
guides seem quite equal to the heavy task of maintaining his
general health intact. But all who come in contact with
mediums, should never forget, that such gifts as mediumship
of a high order ought not to be tampered with, by invita¬
tions to too much gaiety or indulgence of any kind, and that
that greatest earthly boon, good health, particularly for
mediums, should be religiously cultivated, and every moral or
other aid offered to these sensitive individuals, which it is in
the power of such as benefit by them, to bestow. C.
4th January, 1876.
A. MATERIALISATION SEANCE.
Sir,—A distinguished company assembled at Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory’s, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, on
Saturday, January 16th, and the seance was of a marvellous
nature, the different voices of the four spirits being so con¬
vincing ; at the same time I clairvoyantly saw a spirit form
and a light around the medium.
In the light seance for materialisations, Florence and the
bright and lively spirit Lenore appeared and talked to the
company; I walked up to both of the spirits, and saw them
face to face, and I saw that they were two distinct, persons,
and not the medium, as one was rather taller than the other
by, say, from two to three inches. I have not enjoyed such a
pleasant seance for a great while, as the dear spirit friends
looked so much like life. The success of the seance was due to
our observance of the conditions laid down by the spirits, with
whom, for one hour, we all had the privilege of talking and
shaking hands. As you are in search of truth, I thought I
would write these few lines. Yours respectfully, in favour of
honest mediums all over the world, Lottie Fowler,
2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square, W.C.
SPIRITUALISM IN GERMANY.
Sir,-—When I visited Leipzig last August I was deeply im¬
pressed with the enthusiasm and activity displayed in the
society there, and the firm resolution, after I had stated my
experiences, to form circles for developing mediums. Their
intention to set to work at once in like manner encouraged
me with hopes that at last practical progress would go hand
in hand with theorising; but, alas ! there is now no sign of
life from that quarter, and I feel almost ashamed of my
country, which continues to receive facts second hand, whilst
by a very little trouble it might get them at home. It is
nonsense to try to make people believe these fundamental
phenomena by verbal arguments; they must be witnessed,
otherwise the gesticulating and ranting defender of “ uni¬
versity” (not, mind you, “ universal”) unchangeable»laws will
get the best of it. A striking proof of this I found in the
last number of Psychic Studies in a foot-note referring to the
ring test reported among my other statements. The editor
says : “ It could only have been a very clever trick ; the ring
must have had an opening, or prove to us that spirits can
dissolve matter, &c.”
Now, I thought my previous reports demonstrated clearly
enough that wilful deception in this our private circle was out
of question, therefore I did not state all the particulars of the
case. I brought the iron ring (taken from my 4 in. telescope)
myself. I laid it on the table, and bound the wrist of the
medium to that of his neighbour ; in a few seconds it was on
his arm, and the binding intact. We so often got this re¬
markable ring test that it grew quite a commonplace affair,
and I remember that it was one of the many little incidents
in the seance reported by Mr. Charles Blackburn.
Ducie-ayenue, Manchester. C. BiEIMERS.
[The ring test is very common in England; a good instance is published
in the present number of this journal, and the test is given at most of Mr.
■Williams’s public seances.—Ed.]
Eeception at Mrs. Gregory’s.—Last Tuesday night
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, of 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-
square, London, gave a reception to Spiritualistic and other
friends, among whom were Lord Borthwick; Lady Borth-
wick ; Dr. Allman, of Edinburgh ; Mrs. Allman ; Miss
Showers; Mrs. Haweis; Sir William Fairfax; Mr. Maitland
Magill Crichton; Mr. Clark ; the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses,
M.A.; Mr. Peele, R.A.; Mr. George Sutherland; Mr. Perci-
val; the Misses Strong; Mr. Barton ; Miss Hope ; Mrs. Wise¬
man ; Miss Kislingbury; Mr. Webster Glynes ; Captain James;
and Mr. W- H. Harrison.
Spirit Drawings in Brighton.—The Brighton Gazette
says:—One of these so-called “sensitives” appears in the
person of a lady, residing in Brighton, named Mrs. Catherine
Berry, and a number of drawings, about 400 in number, are
now on view at the Spiritualist Institution, 82, St. James’s-
street. Those who belong to the number of the uninitiated
have been puzzled to make out the meaning of them, but I am
assured by the gentleman. Mr. John Bray, in whose room they
are exhibited, that they have a deep and recondite meaning
attached to them, and that I want but a deeper spiritual
insight to unravel their meaning. They are supposed to re¬
present the beginning of life; to solve in a manner (I suppose
with insight) the difficulties which Darwin, Huxley, and other
great physiologists and naturalists are unable to do with un-(
aided reason. Be that as it may, this appears to be a curious
phase of this new religion.
The Increase oe Lunacy.—At a recent meeting of the
Islington Guardians of the Poor, a letter was read from the
superintendent of a private lunatic asplum stating that a
young woman belonging to that parish wa-s so unmanageable
that he wished her to be taken away, and would get her cer¬
tified and defray all the expenses of sending her to Fisherton
House, Salisbury, if the Guardians would consent. Mr. Hicks,
the clerk to the Guardians, said they were in a fix never con¬
templated by the Act of Parliament, for places to which
lunatics could be sent were not to be had ; the county asylums
were all full, and the private asylums nearly always full;
they would soon be in a greater fix, and be totally unable to
find any asylums to which they could send their lunatics.
The American Word “Scientist.” — The word
f Scientist ” has been imported into the English language
from America, by whom is uncertain; but we first heard it
through the lips of Mrs. Hardinge. It is also commonly used
by other American trance speakers. Since then it has begun
to travel outside the ranks of Spiritualism ; Mr. Serjeant Cox
uses it in his book, “ What am I?’’’ and Nature, in reviewing
that book, called special attention to his use of the word.
The Family Herald recently ridiculed it as a Transatlantic
importation, not yet forming a recognised part of the English
language, though why it should not be adopted, seeing that it
is a substitute for the phrase “ scientific man,” it is difficult
to understand, seeing that it economises both time and space.
A new Spiritual journal was started some months since in
Boston, called The Spiritual Scientist, so that will force the
word upon us with all the more energy. Still, the journal
had better have been called the Scientific Spiritualist; because
on this side of the water, whenever its name is quoted, the
majority of readers will doubt whether it is not an illiterate
title or a slang word, ranking in the same category as “ gin-
slings,” “ stone fences,” and “ brandy smashes.”
Spirits in a Law Court.—A justice of the peace in
Chicago, who is a convert to Spiritualism, is, according to the
Chicago Tribune, in the habit of having protracted conversa¬
tions with Sir Edward Coke, Blackstone, and other authorities,
and bringing their experience to bear on the case before him.
The other day, during the forenoon session of the court, a
case came up for trial. The attorney for the defence quoted a
decision which he found in one of the early Illinois reports.
It was apparently decisive. The lawyer looked triumphantly
at the judge. The latter said, “Wait a minute, I feel the in¬
fluence.” Then the judge grabbed a lead pencil and a sheet
of paper. His hand went convulsively, and at the end of five
minutes he had scribbled over the entire page. When he had
finished he said to the lawyer, “I have just received a
message from Judge Lockwood? who was one of the Judges
of the Supreme Court at the time this decision was rendered.
He authorises me to say that the majority of the members of the'
then Court who are now in the spirit land, after mature con¬
sideration, decided to reverse their former judgment. Please
inform the profession of that fact, that they may govern
themselves accordingly.” The judge then continued, “ Under
the circumstances, you will see that I can pay no attention to
the decision you have quoted,' and judgment must be ren¬
dered against you.” The lawyer remonstrated; and the
judge finally agreed to postpone the case for one week, in
order to give Judge Lockwood and his colleagues an opportu¬
nity to examine the matter again, and see if they are deter¬
mined to reverse their former opinion. In the meantime, the
lawyers of Chicago are meditating whether it will not be
necessary for them to burn all their reports if judges in the
spirit land are to be allowed to carry on the business of
making decisions and of reversing those which they have
made in this world.—Pall Mall Gazepte.
60
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 29, 1875,
Mbs. Fay has taken apartments at 31, Brook-street,
Hanover-square, W,, where she will give seances profes¬
sionally.
The Baroness Adelma Yay, who has fine vocal abili¬
ties, has expressed her willingness, to sing at one of the soirees
of the National Association of Spiritualists when she visits
London in the spring. The broad liberal spirit which cha¬
racterises her writings have gained her many friends in this
country.
Peevision by a Savage.—The subjoined passage will
he found at page 86, vol. ii. of Livingstone’s Last Journals,
recently published:—Suleiman-ben-Juma lived on the
main-land, Mosessame, opposite Zanzibar. It is impossible
to deny his power of foresight, except by rejecting all evi¬
dence, for he frequently foretold the deaths of great men
among Arabs, and he was pre-eminently a good man,
upright and sincere—‘ Thisti,’ none like him now for good¬
ness and skill. He said that two middle-sized white men,
with straight noses and flowing hair down to the girdle
behind, came at times and told him things to come. He
died twelve years ago, and left no successor; he foretold his
own decease, three days beforehand, by cholera.”
The Sx. John’s Association oe Spiritualists.—Mr.
R. Pearce, late honorary secretary to the St. John’s Association
of Spiritualists, Clerkenwell, informs us that:—“ In May last,
at the fifth annual meeting, it was decided to adjourn the Sun¬
day evening meetings of the Association during the summer
months. Some of the members thought that the meetings
would not be well attended during the summer, and that the
Society could not afford to continue them at a loss. There is
no doubt, however, that had Mr. Barber and myself been
willing to continue to bear the burden of the meetings, i.e., to
find speakers, guarantee the due payment of rent and other
charges, and tp see to the proper conduct of the services, most
of the members would have been glad to have had them con¬
tinued. Neither of us, however, was willing to carry on a work
which had pressed heavily on us for so long a time. We did
our best for the Association, and both much regret the pass
things have now come to. When the meetings were adjourned
it was arranged that as many members as wished could meet
at Mr. Barber’s once a week during the summer, and that the
Sunday services and other meetings should be resumed in the
autumn. At the same time a new committee was elected, with
Mr. Cotter as secretary. For some time a few' members met at
Mr. Barber’s once a week, but the number attending gradually
dwindled down, and at last these meetings ceased. As you
know, the Sunday evening meetings at Goswell Hall were not
resumed by the Association ; the Committee elected last May
has never met, and the members have not had the matter
enough at heart to take the management into their own hands.
Therefore to all intents and purposes the St. John’s Associa¬
tion is dead, although there would yet be time to resuscitate
it, and carry on its work on an improved basis, did the
members care to do so. Were this done I would willingly do
anything I could to help it in any way, so also would Mr. Bar¬
ber, if we saw a chance of there being thorough unity among
the members.” The career of the St. John’s Association shows
how much depends upon a good working secretary, to keep
small organisations alive ; indeed, Spiritualism is deeply in¬
debted to those secretaries of local societies who attend to the
duties of their office. Mr. Pearce, Mr. Steele, Mr. Barber,
and others, have kept the St. John’s Association alive for
years by their steady work on its behalf, and sometimes by
paying off small arrears; they now seem likely to give up the
work because of the apathy of most of the members.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J.L.—Your note describes only ordinary .manifestations.
Lieut.-Colonel.—Please see “ Answers to Correspondents,” pub¬
lished on the 15th of January.
Continental subscribers are requested to be on their guard against
overcharges and delays in the supply of this journal. Mr. G-led-
stanes, of Paris, has sent us a receipted bill for £1 Os. 8d., for
the supply-of The Spiritualist to him during 1874, by a bookseller
living in Southampton-row. The proper charge for The Spirit¬
ualist for one year is 8s, 8d., plus 4s. 4d. postage to Paris, total
13s. Till June last the price of The Spiritualist was threepence
each number, which would raise the total charge for' 1874 to
about 15s. Mr. Gledstanes called the attention of the bookseller
to his overcharge, but was informed that the said charge was
right. Continental subscribers are requested also, to see that
their weekly copies are started from London every Thursday
night, and not delayed.before being posted.
Mr. Coles, of Chicago, lectured on Sunday at. Goswell
Hall.
Next month Mr. and Mrs. Everitt will go to Portsmouth,
and Mr. Everitt expects to give several lectures there and in
adjacent places.
Mr. Haxby informs us that he and Mr. Burns are joint
secretaries to a committee for the presentation of a testimo¬
nial to Mr. Wallace, one of the oldest mediums in this
country.
To-night a meeting will he held at 110, Islington,
Liverpool, the Rooms of the Psychological Society of that
town, to discuss a scientific paper by Dr. William Hitchman,
entitled “Recent Philosophy of Existence.”
A Haunted House.—Mrs; M. Theresa Wood, of Bed¬
ford House, Carlyle-square, Brompton, favours us with the fol¬
lowing extract from a private letter to her, describing a haunted
house in the Midland districts, but the tenants do not wish the
exact locality to be published :—“ You know Mrs. family;
well, they have a room that is haunted. It seems that last
January the youngest daughter E had a dream that she
would die on the 14th of October, 1874, and about a fort¬
night before that time she was taken ill with rheumatic fever.
However, they would not let her die, and she is now recover¬
ing ; but during her illness something queer has been hap¬
pening. One night her sister was sitting in the room with
her, when all were gone to bed, and the gas was lowered, when
she distinctly saw a white figure come into the room, walk
up to the bed, look at the invalid, and then walk out again.
Another night I think it was Lizzie  and Florence 
were sleeping with one of the Miss , when she said to
them, ‘ Don’t be alarmed if you hear a noise, for my door
often opens wide and shuts again.’ And sure enough they
had not been in bed long, before the door-knob rattled, and the
door opened. They called out ‘ Who’s there ? ’ but received
no answer, of course. When they recounted the incident next
morning at breakfast, an old gentleman, a Wesleyan minister
who was staying there, said ‘ Now you speak of it, I will
tell you. I have been very much disturbed in the night. I
had been in bed some time when I felt the bed raised some
distance from the floor, and this happened two or three
times.’ Then another night Mrs.  and a married sister
from London were in the same bed, talking about the little
invalid, when in the middle of a sentence they were suddenly
served the very same trick. They were too terrified either
to shout or move, so had to lie there till morning. I hope
I shan’t be served the same tricks. I think it would drive me
mad. I suppose you are not tired of it yet. I like to hear
of these things as long as they don’t touch me; so, hoping
yon enjoy, them, and trusting you are all well, with best love
to all, believe me, &e.”
OSWELL HALL, 86, Goswell-road, E.C.—IN-
K STRUCTIVE LECTURES to HUMANITY, are delivered every
Sunday evening, by Trance, Inspirational and other Mediums. Doors open
at 6,30, service at 7 o’clock. Admission Free.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of Ttie Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen..11, Ave Maria-lane. E.C.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. fid.
Emanuel Swedenborg : his life and
WRITING By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forthalso the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four t eel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. HI. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
COATES’ BAZAAR, 126, West Derby-road, Liverpool,
Mrs. Coates, begs to inform her friends and customers that her well-
selected stock of Christmas and New Year’s Stationery, Toys and Fancy
Goods have now arrived, and invites inspection. Mrs. O. has no hesitation
in stating that for price and value, her Christmas, New Year’s and
Birthday Cards, are unequalled. White and fancy coloured tissue paper
from 4d.; Playing Cards from 81d. per packet; also, a large assortment of
English, French, and German toys to choose from at equally reasonable
prices. '
Depot for the sale of progressive literature. Estimates given for Printing,
Bookbinding, etc.
Jan. 29, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIBVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living arid Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Yemon-place,
Bloomsbury-squaro, W.C.,
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seames, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, .will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing, Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having success fully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
n application by letter.
'S' V. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
O . Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five DoUars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course;—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
ad, Bow, London, E.
BR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefitted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
Messrs, harry bastian and malcolm
TAYLOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums, from America.—
PARLOUR SEANCES every evening except Tuesday, Friday, and
Sunday, at 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square. Tickets, 5s. each; hour
8 o’clock. For private seancesr address as above.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
k3 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK and SADLER, TRANCE and PHYSI¬
CAL MEDIUMS, are OPEN to ENGAGEMENTS in any part of
the Country, for Private or Public Seances. Terms, as per arrangements.
Seances (when at home), Wednesday, 2s. 6d.; Saturday, 5s. Address, No.
1a, Nelson-terrace, Cardiff.
Trance mediumshtp for family business
and Other Tests, Healing or Development, by Spirit Mesmerism, &c.
Mr. Olive, 49, Belmont-street, Chalk Farm-road, N.W. Six years practice.
Terms—21s. per private seance.
A public seance at above address on Tuesday evenings, at 7 o’clock,
admission 2s. 6d. Also at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, on Mondays
at 3 p.m.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negietti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
IMPORTANT TO INVALIDS!!!
MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS BY LOOK OP HAIR!!!
MR. AND MRS. E. H. GREEN, TRANCE SPEAKERS
AND CLAIRVOYANT PHYSICIANS.
For Medical Diagnosis send, lock of Hair, well enclosed in oiled paper,
stating sex and age of patient. Prescriptions carefully compounded, under
spirit-control of “Professor Hare" and the Indian Chief “ Blackhawk.’’
Fee to accompany the Hair, 10s. 6d., by post office order on Bfotherton
—Address, Marsh House, Brother ton. Ferry Bridge, Yorkshire.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investiga.tion of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Nurnberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
BRITISH' NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Filz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.O.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finehley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betctiworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. R.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice, D.D, 44,Netherwood-rd., WestKensington-pk., W
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terraee, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendo Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fifz-Gerald, Desmond, G„ M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. &., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-'square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-sti eet, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-squafe, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmoiitb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., IS, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer:
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
: Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tem.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de.Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko. Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs 'Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babeo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia,
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epee Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A. *
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell ■
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris,
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.;
•'mM'SPiRiTfrALiST.
■IV,
^ Ef SHRITXJiMiiSM MfelwM »
' 1NYESTIGATI0X.
SPiRXTtrAMSM deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H.Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.G.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Sillier, Esq.; Mrs. 'J. G. Sillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“■Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary,/Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jenckeh, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported :—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room*—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’ . ,  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
hall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
ouch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters'breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
' 5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult, for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I ,come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of Communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will'
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have’ all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the bod^v
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate', and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies..
The best manifestations are obtained when the mtedium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations arc bom of the
spirit, and'shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting ot a circle symptoms of other forms of.
medium^hip ban tilts or raps may make their appearance.
“THE- SPIRITU A LI ST”' W E WSPA P EE:
A Record of the Science and Ethics ofSpiritmlism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent {Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Ohurch,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H.
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London\ Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.RJ., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris);,Mrs. F. Showers; Mr..J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
T
HE TWO DISCOVERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of Ihe most’ intense
interest, received, by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers,* 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the path of duty; also the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematieal discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools.
Ready by January 1st, 1875. Suitable for a New-Year’s Gift Book. A new
work on
Spiritualism, science, and Christianity;
-showing their Harmony and Relationship, and will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
also be essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and 'Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Modiumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
3s. fid.; to Subscribers, 2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is. j
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to George Farmer, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holbom, London, W. 0.
THE CRUSADE: A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2Jd. Published on
the 15th of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Heywbod and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine*
street, London.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, &c
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books afld Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E, W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London E.O.
