Registered as a Newspaper,]
?^YdSoi<oaidSi< ^di^K^5<-
Cjri: ©lirtsst Jifospapii' cmmdtii toit^ Spiiritnalistu in ®nal §ritein.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. xoio, Seventh-street. ■  ■  
No. 253. (VOL. X.—No. 26.) LONDON: FKIDAY, JUNE 29, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontetus.
The Relationship between Mesmerism and Spiritualism... 301
Seances with Messrs. Fletcher and Williams. By George
0. Joad   ... _    801
Professor Gregory’s Book on Animal Magnetism .-—The
Preface to the Second Edition 302
Private Manifestations. By O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.,
Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster
Hospital, ...      ... ... ... 302
Organisation...  ... ... ...   ... ... ... 303
IJnseen Influences... ... ...       303
Spiritualism among Savages  303
The Rochester Rappings   Ijj...,... 304
The Tower Ghost 305
The Apparition of Lord William Petty. By the Rev. W.
Whitear  305
The Angel of Silence. By William H. Harrison 306
An Interesting Psychological Experiment. By Amelia
Comer ■ 306
Experiments in Mesmerism. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S. 806
Poetry:—A Miracle of Love  ... 308
Correspondence:—Spiritual Metaphysics — A Spiritual
Message—Miscellaneous Subjects—Paraffin Moulds of
Spirit Faces, No. 3—The Late Professsor Gregory’s
Work on Mesmerism — Clairvoyant Seances in
Brighton   ■... ... 308
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries. By Miss Kislinghury,
and O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci    312
Answers to Correspondents -   812
Paragraphs:—“Scientist,” 301; Spiritual Literature in
Cape Town, 301; A Vision, 304; Dreamland, 304 ;
Passed to Spirit Life, 305; Swedenborg Society, 305;
The Psychological Society of Great Britain, 307;
Soiree at Serjeants’ Inn, 307 ; Spiritualism and the
Newspapers, 307; Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage, 311 ;
Spiritualism in Liverpool, 311; A Supernatural Bed¬
fellow... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...    312
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
BSTABhlSHED IK 1869.
mHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A. oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, ana is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who.
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. O. F. Varley, C.E, F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.E.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;NHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. O. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Pardon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. O.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s,, post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, LOUaHBOaOUGH-ROAD-NORTH, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
 H. E. FRANCES, HON. SBC.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
(As exhibited at the Oaxton celebration), is a self-inking one
and can easily be worked by a child of ten. Ils work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet.
“HOW TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the
art of printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of
printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c., post free 13
stamps.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co., PATENTEES.
22, Liverpool Street, London, E.O,
A Model Press on view at Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 31, Great Russell-street.
Price from 30s. to j69 10s.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales’.of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. Ill, By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trttbner & CO.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
London, E.C.
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. Chas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
1, Castledine-road, Anerley, S.E. 
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
established 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
HENRY D. raNCKEN," ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Temporary Rooms—72, Navarino-road, Dalston,
London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The tef Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to specialsiances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have’, the privilege of attending, the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines aro
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can he obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership .’—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
.Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
  E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O,
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Rank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince's Salon, and the Duke's Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, P.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEAR’S TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pear’s, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-read, Cardiff, Ad- ,
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
HATCHARD’S DUPLEX FUNERAL CARS
(Used open or closed), Silver-mounted, Violet or Oak Panels,
Plated Harness, &c.
Inventors, Patentees and Builders,
S. HATOHARD & CO.,
FUNERAL FURNISHERS, &0.
Chief Office:—
47, CRAWFORD ST., BRYANSTON SQ., W.
Funerals conducted in accordance with the views of Spirit¬
ualists. Coloured Palls supplied. Personal attendance at any
address on receipt of letter or telegram.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 29, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S. W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Hi'nywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings,E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place. W.
Kogers, E. D., Bose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin 11., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thosy 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 84, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald,Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., C, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.'
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennlngton-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fiteroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. War wick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W,
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Kogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Strawhndge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house .Leeds.
Wilson, D. Hr, M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W-
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square,"Chelsea, S.W.
Bonorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr, J. E. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Bonorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rasslm Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gvildenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmield. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal. .
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lmdesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.'
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq ,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes; Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq •, 2. Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Mempliis, Tennessee. U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
M. de Bfissompierre, 285j Chaussee St. Rierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelrne Fritz, ‘ President de I’Umpn, 67, Rue du Midi,
1 Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacpby, 11, Rue de Vienne,, Brussels.
Z. Rest,ESfl., M.D., Union Springs.UayudajCo., New York., U.S.A.
Le, Cbmfe de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athen'ee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton. F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetlque. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dais ton, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-streef, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconce de Tor>,®i»-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirlta Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
ffLLt. <J. % W-LLLIAMS,
L
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
IFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALIS 31 EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
LONDON:—SlMPKIN, MARSHALL & CO.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE RELIGION OF JESUS compared with
THE CHRISTIANITY OF TO-DAY. By Frederick
A. Binney.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
The trapped medium • or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.AS.8.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among seientifle men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6cl.: post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT { The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; eontrihutions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., <fcc. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russeli-street, London, W.O. 
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
tubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
The food that we live on. in-
strnctive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart,
lecluding some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—BpintaoMsf Newspaper
Branen Office. 
\ NNALI DELLO SPIRTTIfeMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.   
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.  
SYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
. devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Motze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
. qi, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home, daily; fr<|>m 12j tfil 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings froni 8, o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctually. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &e.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. j. j. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E,   
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris. 
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E, 
MR. J. W. FLETCHER, Clairvoyant and
Trance Medium, No. 14, Southampton-row. Seances
attended at residence if desired. At home 11 to 5.
URATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet bn Curative' Mesmerism, Is. post
free. ’ ’ '  
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Speaker,
• will deliver Orations and Poems to public or
private audiences in any part of the United Kingdom. For all
particulars address to him at Eagle House, 14, Sillvvood-road
Brighton.
FTl L. HENLY, Mesmerist, 5, St. James’s-
1 • terrace, Notting-hilL “ Your treatment of insanity is
excellent.”—George Wyld, M.D., 12, Great Oumberland-place,
Hyde-park, to whom reference is permitted.
MRS. PARKER Lectures on all Social
Reform Subjects, and attends Drawing Room Dis¬
cussions. Now at Pekin House, 11, Elizabeth-place, Jersey
Hours from 12 to 5.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &e. Address, “Spiritualist,” 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN: GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo.
bald. Part 1,price 6(1., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened." The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, price 4d.
CLAIRVOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
GRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
will be published as soen as Mrs. W eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolnor, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Oh. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
A CATALOGUE of a most extraordinary
callection of six hundred works on Alchemy, Appari¬
tions, Astrology, Chiromancy, Dreams, Geomancy, Mesmerism,
Physiognomy, Psychology, The Rosieruoians, Freemasons, and
Mystics, Sorcery and Witchcraft, with some curious miscel¬
laneous books, will be sent post free on receipt of six penny
stamps, which will be returned to purchasers by John Wilson,
12, King William-street, Charing-oross.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300foi' Is., post free, or 5G0 for Is. 6c?., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, cynsequently irreligious age.’
Volume Tej^. Kumber Twenty-^ix.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN MESMERISM AND j !
SPIRITUALISM. | 1
The above subject was dealt with at some length in these j 11
pages last week, and in continuation thereof attention may j (|
be called to the motives which are believed to influence ||
certain spirits in associating themselves more or less m
permanently with mediums. These motives appear to vary, j ()
and so far as inspirational, trance, and poetical mediums are | I
concerned, to be of an unselfish kind. Such spirits rarely ! j
interfere with the liberty of the medium; they only give j i
advice, and that advice in nearly every instance has a j j j
tendency to make him wiser and better. At the other end | j
of the scale, the lower spirits are supposed by many who I j |
have , had long experience in observing their doings, to ji
attach themselves to mediums for the purpose of tasting the 1|||
pleasures of earth over again by community of sensation i j i
with the sensitive, and although they often work great ! j j
marvels on the physical plane of existence, they sometimes | j
care little or nothing for the moral good or evil resulting 1 j I
from such pastimes. j |
This fact of the possibility of community of sensation j
between two individuals is abundantly established by mes- j j
merism. In many experiments when the mesmerist is [ i
pricked the sensitive also feels the pain; when the mes- 15 j
merist drinks wine the sensitive tastes it, and so on. It j |
has, however, been argued that as the mesmerist or the j i
controlling power does not in return experience the sensa- |) |
tions of the patient, the spirits who control mediums are j j
similarly exempt. But Mr. Atkinson’s experiences show l|
that the mesmerist does sometimes take on the sensations j !
of his subject. How much more, then, might he do so in i
that state of exalted sensitiveness believed to be gained by ]
the spirit when freed from the body ? j
This community of sensation may sometimes be used by |
spirits for good purposes. When Miss Rhondda Williams, j
during her last illness, was for a time the guest of Mrs. j I j
Makdougall-Gregory, the spirits would occasionally entrance j |
her for an hour at a time, avowedly for the purpose of j j
giving the medium freedom from pain by putting her into I j!
a mesmeric sleep ; but they invariably asserted that all the ! j
time she was insensible they felt the pain themselves, and ! (j
bore it for a time for the sake of giving her relief.
SEANCES WITH MESSRS. FLETCHER AND WILLIAMS.
BY GEORGE C. JOAD. j ) j
Although the occurrences I am about to record fail in | j j
more than one point of being a perfect proof of anything, | j j
still they offer a certain amount of evidence—first, that the I j
controlling power is distinct from the medium ; second that j j j
two of the John Kings are the same identity. | I
On Tuesday last I paid a visit to Mr. Fletcher. On his j j
becoming entranced, he was at first controlled by (pro- j j |
fessedly) “John King.” I may mention that Mr. Fletcher j jj
told me afterwards that this was the first time John King |l
had ever spoken through him. The discourse was on |||
Spiritualism, and the state of my mind respecting it was j I
accurately stated. I mentioned that I was unable to obtain j ([
any proof that the spirit-world had anything to do with the j j I
matter. John King said he had come on purpose to help j >!
me in my investigation, and would do all he could to prove j i
it to me. I asked him whether I should see or hear him I / j
on Friday. He said, “ Yes,” if I wished. I then requested | j
him to give me some test. He agreed, and asked what it I
should be. I left it to him to choose. He said, “ Well, I
mil say something to you now, and repeat it then. I will say, j j j
i You are an odd fellowthat will not he a common remark?' | j j
Later during the sitting the medium stated that John King j j
had brought a spirit and placed it beside me; from the | j
description I thought I could recognise some one who had IP
JUNE 29th, 1877.
passed away rather more than a year ago; I could obtain
nothing as to identity beyond a description of the personal
appearance, which, however, was very peculiar. I wished
for the name, and could not get it. I then asked John if
he would tell it me on Friday, and he said he would try.
Yesterday evening I attended a seance at the rooms of the
National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-
street, London. Mr. Williams was the medium. I sat on
his left. For a long time we had no manifestations. At
length I was touched on the head, and John King’s voice,
apparently behind the medium, said something to me which,
as the musical-box was playing, I could not hear; so I asked
him to speak again. He then said, “How are you? I
cannot give you the name to-night." I,replied, “I am sorry
for that; can you repeat what you said the other day?”
“ Yes. You are a funny fellow.'" The power seemed
weak, and the manifestations very intermittent. At the com¬
mencement of the sitting I had “ initialed” a card, and placed
it, with a pencil, on the table before me. On John King’s
addressing me again, I told him he had changed a word in
the sentence, and asked if he could repeat the exact word
he had used before. He said, “ JNo." I then requested
him to write down what he had said on the card, and by
way of reply received three taps on the forehead. John
King remarked that I had not seen him for a long time.
I had not seen him since last November, and said, “ No; but I
have heard you, have I not ?” “ Yes," he replied. “ Where ?”
((In Southampton-row." There was nothing more of a per¬
sonal character. On the gas being lighted, I found my card
had been written, or rather scrawled upon, and read, “ We
cannot give you the name." This was written on both sides.
I had better state that I had hold of the little finger of the
medium’s left hand all the time; that he did not change it,
I am certain, because he wore a ring on the little finger
which I noticed at the beginning and felt all through the
sitting.
Unless one assumes collusion between the mediums—and
for my part I repudiate the idea—it is difficult to account
for what occurred, except on the theory of an intelligence
extraneous to either medium or sitter; thought-reading—
whatever that may be—will hardly cover all the facts,;
thought-reading would at once have revealed the name, and
would scarcely have substituted “funny” for “odd.” I
shall continue to investigate in the same direction, and,
should I obtain further results, will communicate them.
Oakfield, Wimbledon Park, June 23rd, 1877.
“ Scientist.”—The word scientist ” now occurs in many communi¬
cations sent to this journal. The word is of American origin, and not
yet recognised or adopted by the English scientific world- Nature, in a
review of one of Mr. Serjeant Cox’s books, called attention to his use of
the expression. What is to be said for and against the adoption of
“ scientist ? ” It is economical as a substitute for “ scientific man,” the
use of one word being saved.
Spiritual Literature in Cape Town.—Mr. T. Berks Hutchinson
has generously presented the following works on Spiritualism to the
Grey Library, Cape Town, South Africa:—November, 1875: Dialec¬
tical Society's Report on Spiritualism ; Spiritual Phenomena, W. Crookes,
F.R.S.; Miracles, and Modem Spiritualism, Alfred R. Wallace. Dec.,
1875; Modern American Spiritualism, Emma Hardinge ; Incidents of
My Life, Home. April, 1876: Footfalls on the Boundary of another
World, R. D. Owen; Blanchette, E. Sargent; Where are the Dead?
Thos. Binney ; Letters and Tracts, Judge Edmonds; Mrs. Tappan's
Orations; The Spiritualist and The Medium (weekly) ; Spiritual
Magazine and Human Nature (monthly). March, 1877 : Nature's
Divine Revelations, A. J. Davis; “Arabula," or, The Divine Guest,
A. J. Davis; Penetralia, A. J. Davis; Stellar Key, A. J. Davis; The
Inner Life Mysteries Explained, A. J. Davis; The Physician, Vol. I.,
Great Harmonia ; The Reformer, Vol, IV., Great Harmonia;. Seers
of the Ages, J. M. Peebles ; Ghost Land ; Occultism; Will Ability, 3 os.
Hands; Career of Religious Ideas, H. Tuttle; Mesmerism and Electrical
Psychology, Dodd’s ; Lectures on Mental Science, 3. S. Neave; Supra-
mundane Facts, Rev. Mr.‘ Ferguson ; Hafed, Prince of Persia; My
Experiences, Catherine Berry; and The Clock Struch One, S. Watson.
302
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 29, 1877.
PKOFESSOR GREGORY’S BOOK ON “ANIMAL
MAGNETISM.”
THE PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION.
The chief difference between this and the original edition
of Gregory’s Animal Magnetism, is that the first three
chapters of the older work have been omitted. Those
chapters consisted for the most part of arguments against
the imposture theory of Mesmerism, and they may have un¬
fortunately been necessary in Professor Gregory’s time, but are
not so now. The elementary facts of mesmerism are now widely
known and accepted, and day by day there is a steadily in¬
creasing number of scientific and intellectual inquirers.
Furthermore, the students of Psychology now possess journals,
organisations, social influence, and public platforms of their
own, and their experience of the past is such that they prefer
to tell the public that those few authorities upon other sub¬
jects who take upon themselves to speak upon that which
they do not understand, and to deny the reality of mesmeric
phenomena, are untrustworthy guides, unworthy the atten¬
tion of honourable men. They feel no desire to prolong the
number of years during which the said authorities have been
treated with more respect than they deserve, in the endeavour
to instruct them in a conciliatory manner as to the nature of
some of the phenomena of the universe respecting which they
are devoid of knowledge.
The late Dr. William Gregory was born in 1803, married
in 1840, and died in 1858. He was a Fellow of the Royal
Society of Edinburgh, and during a large portion of his life
occupied the chair of Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University, a position . obtained after a contested election in
which Dr. Lyon Playfair was his friendly opponent. Dr.
Gregory refused to canvass the electors, and Dr. Alison told
him that he would lose the appointment in consequence, but
he was true to his principles, and said that he would be “ a
martyr, if necessary, to the cause of truth.” Previously
Dr. Gregory had been Professor of Chemistry at Glasgow,
whence he departed to Aberdeen as Professor of Materia
Medica, of which the chair was vacant, but in reality he, by
mutual understanding of the authorities, taught chemistry.
During his residence in Aberdeen he was suffering much of
the time from the effects of an accident, so was assisted in his
experiments by his wife; to this the University authorities
at first objected, but she argued that as his predecessor, Dr.
Forbes, had his daughter to assist him, she (Mrs. Gregory)
had an equal right to assist her husband.
Mrs. Gregory’s maiden name was Lisette Scott; she was
daughter of John Scott the younger, of Gela, who was the
son of ’Sir George Makdougall and Ann Makdougall,
daughter and heiress of the ancient family of Makerstoun,
established in Roxburghshire since a.d. 1100.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory was as deeply interested in
psychological science as her partner; indeed, it is well
known that up to the present time she continues to work ardu¬
ously in London, doing all she can to disseminate a know¬
ledge of this interesting science. The present book is
issued under her auspices. Professor and Mrs. Gregory
were both well acquainted with Harriet Martineau, who
wished Professor Gregory to write her biography, and offered
to send all the documents and letters necessary for that pur¬
pose. He was unable, in the midst of other arduous duties,
to undertake the additional responsible work. Professor
Gregory’s works on chemistry, especially the organic branch
of that subject, are even now valuable text-books to the
student, although it is a science in which such rapid advances
are made from day to day.
So far as I know, all the standard books of the past on
Mesmerism are now out of print, and the necessity for the
republication of Professor Gregory’s work on Animal Mag¬
netism has long been recognised by psychologists, whose
interesting field of research is now attracting so much atten¬
tion. In the preface to the first edition Professor Gregory
mentions the following as the authors of the best works or
papers then (1851) in circulation in this country on the sub¬
ject : Mr. J. O. Oolquhoun, the Rev. Messrs. Townsend and
Sandby, Miss Martineau, Dr. Esdaile, Mr. Braid, Dr. Had¬
dock, Dr. Scoresby, Dr. Elliotson, and Mr. Herbert Mayo.
Professor Gregory acknowledged his indebtedness for some
of the contents of his book, to Earl Stanhope, the Earl of
||| Eglinton, Sir Walter C. Trevelyan, Major Buckley, Dr.
|)| J. W. Haddock, Dr. Maculloch, the Rev. A. Gilmour, and
! | Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
||| I should have preferred to have altered the title of the
| | present work to Mesmerism and its Phenomena, since the
i|j word “magnetism ” has a recognised meaning among scien-
||| tific men, and the psychical facts mentioned in this book
|)| are not primarily, if at all, related to magnetism proper,
||| except in the sense that bonds of union exist throughout
||| all nature. The prefix “animal” of course qualifies the
|)| term, but it is best to have a new name altogether to avoid
11 possible confusion. However, as the book is so well known
j | as Gregory’s Animal Magnetism, and the author preferred that
)| title himself, it has been retained.
I William H. Harrison.
I j! 38, Great Russell-street, London.
! PRIVATE MANIFESTATIONS.
| BT C, CARTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI,, LECTURER ON COMPARATIVE ANATOMY AT
j WESTMINSTER HOSPITAL.
| A private seance was held last Sunday evening in my
| rooms, the persons present being my wife, brother, self, and
I Mr. Herne. Sitting at a small drawing-room table, the “con-
| trol” which calls itself “Sarah” was manifested in about
I ten minutes. This control is said to be of a violent and
| blasphemous nature. After a few slight raps, the table rose,
| and forcibly dashed itself in a downward direction, breaking
j one leg of thick wood. During all the time of the seance,
j Mr. Herne’s hands were held between my brother and my-
| self, and his feet secured by my wife. No motion of his
| body or limbs which could account for the movement of the
j table took place. He exhibited great trepidation at the
j “control” present. Every, one at the table was touched at
j spots far beyond the reach of any part of Mr. Herne’s body.
Subsequently my chair was pulled backwards in a direction
which a fraudulent medium could neither pull norpush ; and
I was forcibly touched on the shoulder nearest to Mr. Herne
at a moment when I was looking at him, and in the direction
of the force which touched me. The broken table leg was
then placed by my brother under the table, and an effort was
made by some agency external to the sitters to replace the
broken iron and woodwork in statu quo, which failed. After¬
wards (Mr. Herne’s feet and hands being secured) a large
heavy sofa behind him, and beyond his radius, was thrown
on one side, and brought towards the middle of the room,
while my chair was gently dragged from beneath me ; Mr.
Herne’s chair was thrown to a corner of the room ; and him¬
self thrown on the floor. I never let go his hands, nor did
my wife his feet.
Afterwards, and when the seance had ended, a small stone
Indian axe, which I was carelessly holding in my hand, was
snatched from me, and thrown to a height above the level
of my brother’s head. Mr. Herne had his back to us at the
time, his hand on the mantelpiece, where he was looking at
some statues. Nobody was near me.
The next experiment is more interesting. I requested
Herne to repeat what I had seen in the presence of Dr. Slade,
when the medium, placing the palm of his hand lightly on the
back-rung of a wooden Windsor chair, with both his thumbs
and all fingers visible to me, caused it to rise from the
ground to a height of about six inches, perfect parallelism
being kept between the seat of the chair and the floor.
This was repeated three times. It is much to be desired
that Mr. Herne should repeat this manifestation in daylight
as a simple and satisfactory proof.
In conclusion, I wish to say that the time of the seance
was 9 p.m., that the windows were open and the blinds
pulled up, and that a moderator lamp, full blaze, was on a
side-table. The experiments, therefore, were carried on in
full light, and the colour of the irides of the medium’s eyes
were visible to all of us throughout the whole of the
evening.
Ay ! there may be muscle and sinew, there may be intelligence and
intellect, there may be the profoundest research, there may be the most
transcendent genius, yet unless integrity and justice, unless sympathy,
charity, and good-will to men underlie and overarch the character, that
life is a moral failure !—J, M, Peebles,
June 29, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
303
ORGANISATION. j j
Throughout all nature, organisation, in a multitudinous j
sense, prevails. Within man’s organisation are over sixty j j
primary elemental substances, and see the wonderful results j j
flowing from their union. Brilliancy in his eyes, elasticity /i
in the step, strength in every muscle, and untold potency in |
the various departments of the brain ! Without organisation, j
he becomes, as it were, a nonentity. The union of oxygen j
and hydrogen produce water; combining oxygen and nitrogen |
we have the atmosphere we breathe. In union there is |
strength—a positive force that can displace mountains, j
remove obstructions in the path of progress, and reform and j
elevate the world. By the combination of active minds, j |
working harmoniously together, as great results can be pro- j j
duced in the moral world, as are daily seen in the physical | !
universe by the uniting of different elements. Without j |
organisation there would be no scintillating stars and j j
worlds—in fact, in one sense, nothing in all of God’s vast j j
universe. See the results that flow from organisation j !
among the Mohammedans, Buddhists, Methodists, Hardshell | I
Baptists! If organisation can propagate an error, will it j j
not have ten-fold more potency when truth alone is involved ? I I
The New Hampshire State Society of Spiritualists take a 11
rational view of this subject in the announcement: “ That we j
believe in organisation as an essential law of nature. Reli- I j
gions are not exempt from the influence of this law. Only j j
through organised and systematic effort can Spiritualism be ||
established in this State, and regular meetings be sustained.” j
—Religio-Philosophical Journal, ! j
UNSEEN INFLUENCES. | |
When—asks a spirit—will men learn that if they wish to m
draw the nobler influences of the unseen world around them, i[j
they must make their own interior conditions attractive to j j
such influences ? A few on earth realise this now, and yet HI
but dimly, not as they will when they have become divested j j
of their fleshly tabernacle. Would that the secret law might j j
be made as plain to all as any of the ordinary laws of visible j !
life! But experience is a good schoolmaster, and it will j |
teach the precious secret in time. Why do we have crime ? ! j
Clearly because we put ourselves in such a condition of mind j |
that we can be easily accessible to dark and undeveloped j !
spirits. Let us once close these avenues to their ajjproacb, j j
and they cannot work their will through us upon others. Hi
No law ought to be plainer, as none when once understood | |
will work better results. We are continually open to the ||
reception of spirit influences, either good or bad; it lies j I
almost wholly with ourselves to say which shall operate j j
through our organisations. j(j
If we would draw down to us the elevated and ennobling |
influences which there are spirits always ready to exert over j j
us, we have a rule by which it can at any time be done. At j (j
all events, we must give hospitality to either one or the
other class continually. We exist between the two, and are If
educated and disciplined by them in turn. How blessed a j j
thing it is to know that it is within our power to have the ||!
company of none but the good if we will. How very j j
precious the thought that we can so easily expel unwelcome j|
guests from our minds by so simple a process as that of j)j
inviting none but the good ones. This is a vital point in s
true Spiritualism. None of us can really call ourselves m
Spiritualists until we live by the application of this rule, j)
which is sure to introduce peace and harmony into the heart, is
Unless we live according to the laws of which we profess to m
know the existence, of what use to speak of these things HI
to others? The world best knows what it most distinctly Isj
sees, and all the argumentation and preaching that can be jH
showered on its head will never have the effect of a practical |J|
demonstration. m
We might learn a valuable lesson from the church itself j||
on this point, for it does not yet recognise the operative raw
existence of such a spiritual law, and therefore it goes on ](|
experimenting with its power and pomp, its authority and uj
worldly methods. It talks about a ** still, small voice,” m
but has never heard it. It does not yet recognise the |l|
simple truth that we all make our own surroundings, but ||{
is satisfied still to leave it with the minister, the synod, j|j
and the council. Not for them is it to impose upon the
human spirit a silent and hidden law which it must take
up for itself. There is no authority outside the law that is
greater than the law. And this is the time for all true
and good Spiritualists to preach the truth, on which they
have laid hold far more effectually by obeying its hidden
statutes, than by combating hostile opinions or even impaling
error with the sword of the intellect.—Banner of Light,
SPIRITUALISM AMONG SAVAGES.
Mr. J. M. Peebles, formerly United States Consul at Trebizond,
and who has contributed greatly by his writings and lectures to the
spread of Spiritualism, is now making a second tour round the world.
Writing to the Banner of Light newspaper, Mr. Peebles says :—
On Thursday morning, the 22nd, we reached Kandavu, one of the
groups that constitute the hundred Fiji Islands. Considering the
climate, soil, and fruits, it is quite natural that England should covet
the control of these sunny isles. The Governor, Sir Arthur Gordon,
testifies not only to the general good behaviour of the native Fijis, but
to their “ aptness to learn, and their readiness to adopt many of the
English customs.” Among others, we here took on board a famous
native Fiji, and Captain Rich, a gentleman who had resided upon the
islands a number of years.
Governor Gordon and Captain Rich both agree that the Fijians have
ever believed in God and a future existence. They also believe in
inferior gods and multitudes of demons. But there is one bad king-
demon above all the host, whom they call Taboro. To him they pray
and offer sacrifices of flowers and fruits. The great and good God
they denominate Kalo. He resides in the sun, whispers in the winds,
smiles in the morning light, and manifests his displeasure in the
hurricane.
Captain Rich gave me a most interesting description of their methods
of holding converse with spirits. They fast for a season, and then-
using the Captain’s language—“ they go into a kind of a fit, becoming
very spasmodic, and then they pretend that the spirit has come.” In
this ecstatic state “they profess to see their dead relatives and to
foretell the future.” They also have “seasons of casting out bad
spirits.” The Captain had seen them do this repeatedly. Bystanders,
looking on, say, “They ’re gone mad! ” The chiefs exercise a sort of
general supervision over these manifestations.
Sailing in the Southern Pacific waters, meeting and conversing with
Southern-Sea Islanders, I have put forth every effort to sound the
depths of their religious convictions, and get at the foundation of their
myths.
Religion in some form is natural alike to savage and the man of
culture. Accordingly, “Wherever there are traces of human life,”
says Max Muller, “there are traces also of religion.” And the mis-
sionary Gill, writing of that small cluster of Isles, known as the
Hervey Group, observes that the “ Polynesian name for God, Vatea,
expresses a great truth. The continued existence of the human soul
after death is implied in their laments, their beautiful allegories, and in
their pretended intercourse with spirits. Each island in the group has
a dialect, a history, and a worship of its own.”
These islanders all, so far as I have been able to form an opinion,
believe in gods, good and bad ; in the immortality of the soul; and in
a future existence that very much resembles this. Hence Ikoke said,
when hearing of the murder of his younger brother, “ I shall meet him
in the warriors’ resting-place, and we shall there again dance the
warriors’ dance.”
A dirge for Vera, composed by Uanuko, runs thus : “ I go toward the
setting sun. I go far away, mother, by a perilous path to spirit-land.
.... Halt, Yera, on thy journey ; turn thine eyes toward Mangaia ;
look again at thy parents, whose days are spent in tears. They love
thee. Tueva, encircled with red leaves, is mourning. Oh, north-west
wind, bear him gently on his way. How desolate is our home. Per¬
haps he will return by a brighter path from, the spirit-land. By the
aid of a mighty god he shall return. The morning will bring him. Do
not weep, mother.”
The following is a portion of the death-chant of Koroa for Yarenga :
“ Sweet was she who came from the sun-rising. In spirit-land she is
now wed. She was wooed by a shadow. Such was my vision on the
mountain At the gathering-place of ghosts is her home, built by
her ancestors, where spirits rest awhile—rest, or chant, and sing in the
evening. She has gone to her home. She has entered the expanse
where, visiting the land of red-parrot-feathers, she wilf return in
renewed youth—return, leading us to the spirit-expanse. Let there be
abundance of fragrant leaves, magnificent, sweet-scented flowers, with
garlands of myrtle for the advent.”
Reaching Auckland, New Zealand, early on the morning of February
26th, we were met at the landing by the Hon. John Macleod, for several
years a member of the New Zealand and Colonial Parliament, and a
devoted Spiritualist. Yisiting this gentleman’s residence, riding out
to the extinct volcanoes, visiting the library, the Rev. Mr. Edgar, a
liberal, unsectarian clergyman, and other persons and places of interest,
we returned just before evening time to our steamer. Auckland is a
beautiful and healthy city, with a population of 15,000. We are yet
ten days from Melbourne, Australia.
Auckland, New Zealand,
The 100,000 cheap leaflets, containing instructions how to form spirit
circles at home, are now printed and ready for distribution.
304
THE SPIR
THE EOCHESTEE EAPPINGS.
To the Editor of “ The AthenceumT
Scarsdale Villas, Kensington, June 4tli, 1877.
In your impression of the 26th of May last, I noticed
with deep regret that my letter to Mr. J). D. Home has
been the cause of bringing my name before the public. The
publication of my letter by Mr. Home, of February, 1876,
was improper and unauthorised. As regards the serious
charges contained in Mrs. Norman Culver’s unsworn deposi¬
tion, made, not as you erroneously put it, six years ago, but
twenty-six years and upwards ago, I think in common fair¬
ness you will not deny me the right of reply. At the time of
the publication of this defamatory, unsworn deposition I was
a mere child. My family, however, took up the matter,
and Mrs. Norman Culver, subsequently, not only verbally,
but in writing, retracted all the charges brought against me
and my sister. Shortly after the publication of this docu- j
ment, Mr. E. W. Capron, published in the Express in 1851
(recopied in the Pittsburg Post) a letter to this effect:— I
111 notice in the Express of Saturday what pretends to j
be a statement of a confession (in extracts from an unsworn- j
to deposition) made by Catharine Fox to Mrs. Norman Cul¬
ver.' Without noticing the loose and indefinite manner of
the whole statement, I wish to call attention to the following
extract:—
“ ‘ Catharine Fox told me that, when the committee held
their ankles at Rochester, the Dutch servant-girl rapped
with her knuckles under the floor from the cellar. The |
girl was instructed to rap whenever she heard their voices I
calling spirits.’
“As I was present during the investigation, and had an j
opportunity to know something of the circumstances, I will j
ask space to state—
“1st. That during that investigation (which lasted three j
days, and was carried on by three different committees), not j
one of the examinations took place in the house of the Fox
family, the first meeting of the committee being in the Hall
of the Sons of Temperance, the second at the office of Vice-
Chancellor Whittlesey, and the third at the rooms of Doctor
Gates, at the Rochester House.
“ 2nd. There was no previous notice given to the family,
and they did not know when they were to go until the com¬
mittee called for them.
“ 3rd. They did not have, and never had, a Dutch or
other servant-girl in the family at Rochester up to the time
of the investigation.; I
“4th. Catharine Fox was not in Rochester during any |
part of these investigations, but was at.my house in Auburn, 1
seventy miles distant. \
“ Any further comment on the above unsworn 1 deposi- j
tion ’ would be superfluous, as the above serves to illustrate <
its character.” • , ; , ; - ; A |
For further evidence rebutting these charges I refer you j
to the contemporary literature on that subject from the year (
1851 onwards.’ !
I may be perhaps permitted to state that, as regards Mrs. ]
Norman Culver, she left her husband some year or two prior <
to the year 1851, and wandered about with a person named i
Burr, who gained a livelihood by giving public lectures, J
principally denunciatory of Spiritualism. After her return f
to her husband her mind gave way, and she had temporary |J
attacks of kleptomania; her husband, in despair, committed jj
suicide. It is painful for me to state these facts, known 8
only to our family, to whom Mrs. Culver was distantly re- j
lated; but I deem this necessary to show the character of |
the witness brought up to testify against me after the lapse |
of upwards of a quarter of a century. I ask, is this con¬
duct on the part of Dr. Carpenter fair and reasonable ?
The theory Dr. Carpenter endorses is., that these rappings
are produced by the joints of the toes of the foot. Can any
explanation be less satisfactory? I appeal to Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Lord Rayleigh, Mr. H. Choi- \
mondeley Pennell, Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr. Varley, and many
more, to whom I have afforded, every opportunity of testing
these phenomena and ascertaining their cause, whether the )
toe-joint theory suffices to account for these mysterious rap- j
pings, or whether they are produced by artificial means.
These rappings, or echoes from an unseen world, as I call (
IT UAL 1ST. ' June 29, 187?.
/I them, have occurred in the presence of the gentlemen I have
j referred to, and in the presence of other men of science, in a
I clear light, against the pane of a window, on the panel of a
j door, abreast with those present, even overhead, upon a wire
i stretched across the room, and beyond my reach or touch,
jj They have taken place on the floor, while I was seated on a
jj swing several feet off the ground; they have happened while
| I stood isolated on glass tumblers, the floor beneath vibrating
l! as the rappings sounded on the. carpet. If the phenomena
jj called spiritual rested on these rappings as their sole
| evidence, possibly suspicion might be justified ; but, I ask,
jj how does Dr. Carpenter account for the appearance of forms ?
Jj These appearances have been witnessed by Mr. H. P. Town-
j send, Mr. C. F. Livermore, Dr. Gray, Dr. Edward Bayard
ji (all of New York), by Mr. Irving Yanwart (nephew to
jj Washington Irving), and others in the United States.
On a recent occasion, at the house of Mrs. S. C. Hall,
jj Kensington, a luminous hand, descending from a consider-
Jj able height opposite to me, seized a pencil and wrote a few
j words, then rose and gradually faded away. I ask what
Jj produced this phenomenon ?
;( In conclusion, I repeat my request that I may be heard in v
j answer to the unprovoked, unjustifiable attack now made
Jj upon me. For years past I have lived in strict seclusion,
j only allowing intimate friends to visit; and now, after the
j lapse of upwards of a quarter of a century, I am called upon
j to repel slanderous statements made against me by a person
j I had hardly ever spoken to, knew nothing of, and which
j statements have been retracted and denied by the accusant
j again and again. Katharine Fox-Jencken.
*** The statement that Mrs. Culver’s deposition was
j made only six years ago is Dr. Carpenter’s.
A Vision.—A sublime philosophy which a Socrates, au Aristotle, a Plato
might envy, but could never reach. Visions of God; three yet one ; foot¬
steps of angels; a gigantic war of spirits going on from the dawn of crea¬
tion, unseen yet not unfelt; rivers of Divine grace flowing ever through
the world of matter; dull facts of nature transformed into an alphabet of
living symbols; our God on earth, marrying his own creation by a
changeless vow, changeless as himself; a city of light, that of God,
stretching out before us in the infinite future with its antipodes, a
chaos of rebel torture, the everlasting living of that second death; good
and evil in their ultimate issues; such are some of the echoes which
break in upon the ear from the anthems of the angelic choirs; such are
some of the pulsations of light which escape from that half unveiled
throne of insufferable glory.—“ Manchester Dialogues^ By the Rev.
Father Harper, S.J. Second Series, p. 71.
Dreamland.—There is a deep mystery connected with dreams,
>j unless we examine them from a spiritual standpoint; then they
jj become somewhat clear. The soul often leaves the body during the
ij hours of sleep, and is told what is to occur; and if the same is im-
11 pressed upon the brain, when the soul returns to the body it is
j] regarded as a dream. The Norwegian bark Faro, which reached
ij New York lately, brought Capt. Johnson and the crew of the schooner
11 Laura A. Webb, of Deer Island, Me., which was abandoned on the
Jj 15th ult., after five days’effort to save her. The Webb sailed hence
i j for Nassau, N.P., in ballast, under charter of B. J. Wenburg, of 15, Old-
[ j slip. Captain Thompson gives an account of his troubles. The ship
, j was almost a complete wreck ; one man had his leg broken, and all on
►j board but him seemed discouraged. The captain in the course of his
ji narrative said n Two more days without sight of a sail. We were
, | still doing what we could to keep from drifting to the eastward, but
i j it wasn’t of much use, and most of those on board were getting pretty
jj well discouraged. Abner Newman, the man with the broken leg, kept
ij up his courage better than any of them. On the third morning he
11 told his mates that he had a dream in one of the short spells when
J j exhaustion so far overcame pain that he could sleep some. 11 dreamed
ij that I was eating my pea-soup, boys, at Deer Isle,5 said he, ‘and a
1 j white cat streaked with gray jumped up on the table and watched me
H ea,t. We’ll get out of this all right, never fear.’ I liked the fellow’s
I pluck, but at the same tinie I was beginning to feel a little dubious.
We seemed to be drifting along about the middle of the storm with no
j chance to run out of it. Besides, we were going so much to the east-
j ward that I thought that accounted for our not encountering vessels of
I some sort. Four days and nights had been spent in about as un¬
comfortable quarters as a man could pick out, and still no sail hove
in sight. About half-past three on the afternoon of the 15th, the
Norwegian bark Faro sighted us and came to our assistance. The
storm had abated somewhat, but still there was a good deal of risk in
i making the transfer in such a sea, but it was accomplished without
] accident. I never took much stock in dreams, but it does seem strange
the way Abner Newman’s dream came out. As soon as we could get
him ashore he was sent to comfortable quarters, and the first morning
j after he got there they gave him a bowl of pea-soup. There is more
j than one witness that can swear that before he had swallowed the
|] first spoonful a white cat, streaked with gtay, jumped on the table, as
familiar as an old friend, and sat there watching him till he had
finished.55—Religio-Philosophical Journal,
June 29, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
305
THE TOWER GHOST. . , Ilf
The late Professor Gregory, in his book on Animal Mag- j j
netism, states that the following narrative about the “ Tower | |i
Ghost” was communicated to him by Sir David Brewster : jlj
“At the trial of Queen Caroline, in 1821, the guards at |||
the Tower were doubled, and Colonel S., the Keeper of the j |
Regalia, was quartered there with his family. Towards I j
twilight, one evening, and before dark, he, his wife, son and | |
daughter, were sitting listening to the sentinels, who were | I
singing and answering one another, on the beats above and j j
below them. The evening was sultry, and the door stood | |
ajar, when something suddenly rolled in through the open [ |
space. Colonel S. at first thought it was a cloud of smoke, j j
but it assumed the shape of a pyramid of dark thick grey, j j
with something working towards its centre. Mrs. S. saw I
a form. Miss S. felt an indescribable sensation of chill and j I
horror. The son sat at the window, staring at the terrified I j
and agitated party, but saw nothing. Mrs. S. threw her j j
head down upon her arms on the table, and screamed out, j j
1 Oh! Christ! it has seized me!’ The Colonel took a chair j j
and hurled it at the phantom, through which it passed. The ! !
cloud seemed to him to revolve round the room, and then j j
disappear, as it came, through the door. He had scarcely j j
risen from his chair to follow, when he heard a loud shriek | j
and heavy fall at the bottom of the stair. He stopped to j j
listen, and in a few minutes the guard came up and chal- j j
lenged the poor sentry, who had been so lately singing, but j j
who now lay at the entrance in a swoon. The serjeant m
shook him rudely, declared he was asleep on his post, and ffl
put him under arrest. Nest day, the soldier was brought j f
to a court-martial, when Colonel S. appeared on his behalf, | |
to testify that he could not have been asleep, for that he I j
had been singing, and the Colonel’s family had been lis- j j
tening ten minutes before. The man declared that, while j j
walking towards the stair entrance, a dreadful figure had jjj
issued from the doorway, which he took at first for an j |
escaped bear, on his hind legs. It passed him, and scowled | j
upon him with a human face, and the expression of a demon, 1|
disappearing over the Barbican. He was so frightened that m
he became giddy, and knew no more. His story, of course, j j
was not believed by the judges, but he was believed to have j j
had an attack of vertigo, and was acquitted and released on j f
Colonel S.’s evidence. That evening, Colonel S. went to j j
congratulate the man; but he was so changed that he did j |
not know him. From a glow of rude health in his hand- j j
some face, he had become of the colour of bad paste. Colonel j j
S. said to him, ‘ Why do you look so dejected, my lad ? I I I
think I have done you a great favour in getting you off; j j
and I would advise you in future to continue your habit of j j
singing.’ f Colonel,’he replied, i you have saved my cha- j j
racter, and I thank you; but as for anything else it little | ]
signifies. From the moment I saw that demon I felt I was j j
a dead man.’ He never recovered his spirits, and died next j !
day, forty-eight hours after he had seen the spectre. Colonel I |
S. had conversed with the serjeant about it, who quietly j j
remarked, | It was a bad job, but he was only a recruit, and j j
must get used to it like the rest.’ * What!’ said Colonel S. j||
‘have you heard of others seeing the same?’ 4 Oh, yes,’ j j
answered the serjeant; 4 there are many queer, unaccountable j j
things seen here, I assure you, and many of our recruits faint j |
a time or two, but they get used to it, and it don’t hurt | i
them.’ Mrs. S. never got used to it. She remained in a j |
state of dejection for six weeks, and then died. Colonel S. ! j
was long in recovering from the impression, and was reluc- j j
tant to speak of it, but said he would never deny the thing | |
he had seen.” | j
i I I
Mr. T. Wilks, booksellei', of 14, Lorne-terrace, Green-lanes, Stoke jjj
Newington, can afford all necessary information to investigators into jj j
Spiritualism, and facilitate the formation of experimental circles in his j j
district. . ||
Passed to Spirit-Life.—Dr. Dupuis, the editor of Gallileen, a jlj
spiritual paper published at Ostend, Belgium, has passed to spirit-life, ijj
In life his motto was, “Without charity no salvation,” using that jjj
evidently in contradistinction to the Roman Catholic motto, “ Out of ijj
the church no salvation.” Though only thirty years of age, he had ijj
served as an Assistant-Major in the French army ; when at liberty to jvj
do so he commenced the publication of the Gallileen, and he passed to jj
spirit-life while endeavouring to present to the world the glorious truths i j
of Spiritualism, 7
THE APPARITION OF LORD WILLIAM PETTY.
BY THE REV. W. WHITEAR.
I am sorry to say that the account of the death of Lord
William Petty, or, properly, The Honourable William Gran¬
ville Petty, first published by Mr. Warner, and repeated in
The Spiritualist^ vol. x., p. 268, is full of errors.
Mr. Petty died of inflammation (but not of the lungs), and
he was attended by Mr. Alsop, and that is almost all of the
story which was not contradicted more than forty-five years
since by Mr. Jervis (not Jarvis), Mr. Petty’s tutor, who
was with him at the time of his death, and must have known
how it happened.
Mr. Jervis’ account of the death of his pupil was pub¬
lished in a pamphlet called Remarks on some Passages in
the Literary Recollections of the Rev, Richard Warner.
London : R. Hunter, 1831. Mr. Jervis says that neither he
nor Dr. Priestly attended the funeral, nor did he ever
receive such a communication as that said to have been
made to him by Dr. Priestly during the journey, though
they were on such friendly terms that if anything of the
kind had happened to either of them it would have been
unreservedly communicated to the other.
I do not know the exact date of Mr. Petty’s death, but it
must have occurred more than forty years before the publi¬
cation of Mr. Warner’s book in 1830, so there was plenty of
time for mistakes to work and misrecollections to creep into
the story.
It is now scarcely possible to ascertain whether Mr. Alsop
really saw any apparition, but a story so incorrect in its
details as that of Mr, Warner is certainly not sufficient to
prove that he did.
We have here another proof of the loose way in which such
stories are often told, even when they are recorded by per¬
sons who would not intentionally deceive, and the conse¬
quent necessity for searching investigation into the par¬
ticulars. It is not too much to say that such stories cannot
be relied upon unless they are written down very soon after
the occurrence, either by some one personally concerned, or
after the most careful inquiry, if by any other; and to de¬
scribe accurately even when accuracy is honestly aimed at,
is no easy matter.
High-street, Hornsey, June 16,1877.
Miss Anna Blackwell’s Prize Essay on Spiritualism has been
translated into French, and has been well received so far.—-La Religion
Ldique has given it a favourable notice.
Swedenborg- Society,—The annual meeting of this Society was held
at the Society’s House, 36, Bloomsbury-street, London, W.C., on the
19th inst.; the Rev. Dr. Bayley, of Kensington, occupied the chair.
The report of the committee states that 4,888 volumes of the True
Christian Religion and 4,755 volumes of the Apocalypse Revealed have
been presented gratuitously to ministers and students, and 369 volumes
of the latter work to editors of the press, from the time the offer of
these works was first made up to the 30 th May. The sales of the
same works for the year are 465 volumes of the former, and 633 volumes
of the latter. Of the general publications of the Society, 3,319
volumes have been sold and 3,151 presented, making a total of 6,470
volumes issued during the year. The operations of the Society during
the last ten years are thus summarised:—1868 to 1877, income (from
all sources), <£8,488 ; 1868 to 1877, works sold and presented, 41,637.
Of two works alone, viz., the True Christian Religion and Apocalypse
Revealed, the sales for the same period are stated to be 4,732 volumes
of the former, and 1,204 volumes of the latter, showing an increase of
nearly four-fold over previous sales of these works. Several extracts
from reviews of the two works just mentioned are given, but our space
will only permit of one on the Apocalypse Revealed being quoted here.
“ After volumes upon volumes have been written on streets paved with
gold, and thrones tending to impart a physical idea of a future state ;
on beasts and dragons, as referring to earthly potentates, or to the
hierarchy of hell; and the scarlet lady as being applicable to the
Church of Rome and the Pope, it is truly refreshing to find a more
elevated expression of such terms, persons, and things which Sweden¬
borg shows to be purely allegorical, and to have entirely a spiritual
meaning. What that meaning is appears very distinctly and compre¬
hensively described in this volume.” The report was unanimously
received and adopted, and the following resolution carried nem. con.
“ That the extended knowledge of earthly things" which has been
supplied to the human mind in modern times by scientific researches
which have no parallel in the past, points to the necessity of a corre¬
sponding increase of spiritual knowledge as its complement required by
the hunger and thirst of the soul. And, as the I ord has vouchsafed
to this Society the possession of the literature containing the heavenly
truths the case demands, it is plainly the duty of each member to
proceed vigorously and continuously in its dissemination.”
With mai>ble-like feet on the darksome clouds
Ascending f rom worlds of woe,
The Angel of Silence in majesty stood,
All patiently calm as the murmuring flood,
Of the passions of men and their deeds of blood,
Re-echoed from depths below*
And sadly the murmurs of sorrow and pain,
Of the tide of human tears,
Rose heavenwards with prayers for a time of peace,
For the day when the tumult of life should cease,
When the souls of men should obtain release,
In the march of the silent years.
Impassively calm was her snow-white brow,
As she read the Decrees of Fate,
Whilst down from the point of her gleaming sword,
The radiance of truth in its purity poured,
To those who could grasp the Word of the Lord,
In the regions of strife and hate.
That Messenger knew that no sign from heaven
Would to stem the tide avail,
That the web must be woven in human life,
Of the outcome of sin, of the wages of strife,
Till the fruits of repentance with holiness rife,
Shine forth as the Holy Grail.
The conscience of man must be scarred and stung,
By the arrows of pain and. sin,
By the furnace fires of affliction be tried,
Ere the soul casts away its dark mantle of pride,
Not from the power of the voice outside,
But the might of the thought within.
Hearts by that Angel are softened and swayed,
In the noiseless hours of night,
And in deeds by day is the work outwrought,
For the matchless power of the silent thought,
From realms on high by an Angel brought,
Floods the wide world with light.
AN INTERESTING PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIMENT.
BT AMELIA COKNEK.
I have great pleasure in authenticating the circumstance
of my daughter’s writing my thoughts, alluded to in your
article on u The Relationship between Mesmerism and Spirit¬
ualism,” in the last number of Tfie Spiritualist.
The modus operandi is simply this:—I ask a friend who
may be present, but not sitting with us at the table, to write
a few words on a piece of paper and give them to me pri¬
vately, so that my daughter may not see them. I then
place my fingers on her hand, and ask the spirits to read my
thoughts (I, in the meantime, reading the communication
on the paper), and write them through my daughter’s hand.
This they invariably do, although she has no knowledge
of what she is writing, and does not know until we tell her.
I have tried placing my fingers on various parts of her arm,
but the power gets weaker the farther they are removed
from her hand; still the communication has been given in
her writing when my hand has been placed on her shoulder.
I do not believe that I have any mesmeric influence over
my daughter, but that I merely give her that physical power
for her writing of which she is deficient.
At our seance this afternoon I read your paragraph before-
mentioned to our spirit friends, asking for their explanation.
The following was written through my daughter’s hand in
reply, and I believe it to be a pure and truthful explanation
of the phenomenon. She was not aware of what she had
written until it was read to her afterwards :—
“We are not in the habit of answering paragraphs in
newspapers, but will make an exception in this case. We
do not see how any one can mistake the influence which
controls your daughter’s hand. When you ask us to write
your thoughts, we simply do it in the way you would read
from a book. Your daughter is a passive instrument in the
matter for the time being, we using her hand as a machine,
she not knowing the purport of oiir writing. This machine,
or hand, is not sufficient without a portion of vitality from
yourself.”
I may further state that I have had proofs, apart from my
daughter’s mediumship, of spirits reading my thoughts and
immediately carrying out my wishes.
3, St. Tkomas’s-square, Hackney, June 24tb, 1877.
EXPERIMENTS IN MESMERISM.*
BT HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G-.S.
I was once requested by a physician to try the effect of
mesmerism on a lady who was suffering fearfully from tic, a
complaint to which she had been subject for many years.
The trial was most successful, but before a cure could be
effected, the lady was obliged to go to Paris with her husband.
As my peculiar influence had so good an effect upon her, it
seemed most desirable to continue the process, if possible ;
and as I had already tested the fact that mesmeric power
could be conveyed by water, cotton, leather, and other sub¬
stances, I suggested the plan of sending her mesmerised
gloves by post to Paris. The experiment succeeded perfectly;
the glove put on her hand always sent her into mesmeric
sleep, and relieved her intense suffering, which all other
means had wholly failed to do. The mesmerised glove by
use gradually lost its property, and then failed to cause sleep
after a third time, so that I had to send newly mesmerised
gloves every week, and the old ones were from time to time
returned, to be charged afresh. This led to the observation
of a very striking fact. I found that, before I could renew
the healthy power, I had to remove the unhealthy influence
or contagion, which the glove had absorbed from the patient.
I felt in my hand, on approaching the old gloves, the same
unpleasant sensations that I have from touching a diseased
individual, besides absolute pain from the tic. The sensa¬
tions were as clear and unmistakable as those of heat from
a flame, or of the roughness or smoothness of objects. The
pain was the same in character as that of the patient. After
I had mesmerised the glove for two or three minutes, the
sensation ceased, and the glove was now cleansed from the
influence it had absorbed and brought with it. The sensation
now was the same that I have when I relieve pain by mes¬
merising, when I can tell at once that the pain is relieved.
I was in fact a complete mesmerometer, and had within my¬
self the most convincing proof of the mesmeric fact, and of
its relation to ordinary contagion. It might be supposed
that the influence of the gloves on the patient was due only
to the imagination ; but I tested this by sending sometimes
unmesmerised gloves, and at other times such as had been
used by the patient, without doing anything to them; and
always found that the unmesmerised gloves had no effect,
and the used gloves a most disagreeable one. I have made
the experiment in a great many cases, and with the same
results. The perception I had of pain and other states
appeared at first very strange to me, as if it were a new
sense; but I soon became familiar with it, so that it ceased
to attract notice.
My patients used to try to deceive me as to their, pains,
but could never succeed, and they used to remark that I
knew their sensations better than they did. When mes¬
merising nervous patients, I have felt a prickling sensation
in my hand, but as soon as the sleep came on I felt a slight
shock, as it were; all disagreeable feelings ceased, and I
experienced an agreeable influence in their place. On the
occurrence of any decided change in the patients, as from
trance to somnambulism, I felt the same slight shock. I
have found that one’s own peculiar mesmeric power may be
in a measure conveyed to another, and also that the peculiar
mesmeric state or sleep may be conveyed from one patient to
another. This accounts for the occasional contagion of fits,
and for such phenomena as the contagious preaching mania
in Sweden. I have experienced the same sympathetic
influence as in the case of gloves from letters, especially if
the paper were glazed; and I could thus tell the state of the
patient before reading the letter. Sometimes the heat and
prickling have been so strong that I have laid the letter on
the table to read without touching it. The influence from a
* Extracted from Professor Gregory’s Animal Magnetism,
306 THE SPIRITUALIST. June 29, 1877.
June 29, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
307
feverish state would cause my hand to feel hot and feverish, j
even to others, the whole day. On one occasion, on reading j
a letter from a distance, I had the sensation of tears. It |
was so strong that I felt sure the writer had been in tears j
while writing it, although nothing in the case, or in the I
letter, led to this conclusion. It proved, however, on in- j
quiry, that the writer had been in tears, and that the tears j
had fallen on the paper. In one case, in which the patient, I
a lady, was too sensitive to be treated in the usual way, I ;
gave her mesmerised water, which immediately caused her j
to sleep, and she was thus cured of sleeplessness. Once, |
when she sent for the water, I could not venture to mesmerise j
it, as I had just been mesmerising a diseased subject, so I j
sent ordinary water, without any remark. In a few days I j
received a note to say that the water had lost its power, and | j
no longer caused sleep. On one occasion I breathed a dream |
into a glove, which I sent to a lady; the dream occurred, j
One of the ladies above mentioned, with her whole family, j
are sensitive to the approach of iron, which recalls the j
faculty possessed by some, of discovering veins of ore, or j
springs of water under ground. I found that if, when j
engaged in mesmerising for pain, my mind was bent on what j
I was doing, I received little or no influence. I could at will j
either impress the patients or absorb their condition. In j
either case, if the will was active, the influence never affected |
me beyond the hand used ; but if I were thinking of other |
things, I experienced the whole symptoms of the patient so I
far as pain was concerned, and I thus approached to the state
of the somnambulist who detects the diseases of others.
The following is a remarkable instance of sympathy :—I
had mesmerised a young lady who was living with my
brother and sister, twenty miles from town. She proved an
excellent clairvoyante. One Sunday I was walking with a
lady, after church, in her garden, in St. John’s Wood, when
I found the dead body of a new-born infant, wrapped up in
a clean cloth; it must have been thrown over the wall.
Next morning I received a note from my sister, telling me
that my patient had on the Sunday, after church, insisted
on taking her all about the garden to look for a baby,
because she was sure she should find one. Once when I had
been mesmerising the same young lady before a company,
and was making a cross pass to wake her, a lady standing
close by received the influence from my hand, and ran away
screaming lijie one possessed. From that time, whenever I
mesmerised my patient, which was at very uncertain times,
when I could get away from London, this lady, living four
miles off, fell into mesmeric sleep at the same time, and her
case exhibited the same phenomena of clairvoyance.
Two of my patients once fell into a dead sleep or trance,
so deep that I believe you might have cut them to pieces,
and they Would have felt nothing. No ordinary means could
arouse them; yet, if a drop of water fell, even on their dress,
it immediately set them a-trembling; the touch of a piece of
silver convulsed them with laughter, which the touch of
another metal instantly stopped. The trembling and laughing
seemed wholly without consciousness, a kind of life in death,
or merely spasmodic. I have seen and heard some patients
writhe and groan and scream as if in agony, and yet on
awaking declare they had had delightful dreams. Here a
conscious and an unconscious state seemed to exist together,
so that the persons may be truly said to be beside themselves.
One lady whom I know, suffers acutely from the contact of
metals. She feels a pricking sensation, with general dis¬
comfort, and at times even sickness. A brass thimble
caused her finger to swell, and she was forced to leave it off.
She is compelled to eat with wooden spoons, and to use her
handkerchief to open the door when the door-handle is of
metal. This sensitiveness is not uncommon, and should be
carefully attended to, as it may be the unsuspected cause of
much suffering. In general, medical men pay no attention
to such things, and call them nervous or hysterical, and
thus save the trouble of investigation. Sir C. Bell said that
the eternal answer of the indolent is, “ It is hysterical.”
But supposing them hysterical, what then ? They are not
the less real nor the less interesting.
Miss Kate Selina Cook, the medium, is at the present time on a
visit to Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester.
Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance address in the Freemasons’
(Old) Hall, Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne, on Sunday next, July
1st, at 6.30 p.m., subject, “ The "WorldIts Use.” Also another
address on the following evening, at the same place, subject, “Is
Spiritualism a Practical Philosophy ? ”
Members of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism
are requested to note that on and after Thursday evening, the 28th
insfc., until further notice, the meetings will be temporarily held at 72,
Navarino-road, pending completion of arrangements for removal to new
premises.—Thomas Blyton, Hon. Sec.
The Psychological Society oe Great Britain.—On Friday, the
15th inst., Mr. Serjeant Cox entertained the Council of the Psycho¬
logical Society of Great Britain at dinner at his town residence, 36,
j Bussell-square. The guests present were—Colonel Hartley, Com¬
mander Kelso, R.N., Mr. Crookes, F.R.S., Mr. Holmes, J.P., Mr.
I Geo: Harris, LL.D., the Rev. W. [S. Moses, Dr. Richardson, F.R.S.,
Mr. W. P. Clayden, Mr. Deputy Saunders, Professor Plumptre, Mr.
Coffin, Mr. Gordon, Mr. Hosack (police magistrate), Mr. C. C. Massey,
Mr. Tagore, Mr. Charles Bray, Mr. F. K. Munton, Mr. Ballaston, Mr.
John Holland, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Soiree at Serjeants Inn.—On Thursday, the 21st inst., Mr, Ser¬
jeant Cox invited a reunion of Literature, Art, and Science, at the
ancient halls of the Honourable Society of Judges and Serjeants. The
two great halls were handsomely decorated with banks of flowers and
coloured plants, conspicuous among which was a sideboard, contributed
by Messrs. Veitch and Son, which contained a choice selection of rare
orchids, and a group of the recently-discovered insectivorous plants,
which attracted universal attention. The exquisitely painted windows,
illuminated with the arms of the chief justices, were lighted on the out¬
side by lime lights. The Band of the 1st Life Guards, under the con¬
duct of Mr. Waterson, played a selection of choice music in the great
hall. Upwards of 300 persons were present, among whom were—Sir
J. Heron Maxwell, Bart.; Sir Walter Sterling, Bart.; the Dowager
Lady Rayleigh; Sir John Help, Bart; Mr.Cave,M.P.; Mr. Forsyth, M.P.;
Sir P. Perkins, M.P., and Lady Perkins; Sir G. Hodgkinson ; Colonel
Ducane ; Mr. Collins, Q.C.; Mr. Philbrick, Q.C.; the Duke de Pomar;
Mr. Dobson, R.A.; Mr. George Cruickshank; Mr. C. Landseer, R.A.;
Mr. Frank Dicksee; Mr. Crookes, F.R.S.; Sir Walter and Lady
Crofton; Mr. Davis, R.A. ; Mr. and Mrs. Hepworth Dixon; Mr.
Serjeant Robinson; Colonel Dubane; Mr. Faed, R.A.; Mr. W. Long¬
mans ; Mr. C. Mathews and Mrs. Mathews; Mr. Gregory, M.P.;
Mr. E. Galsworthy, J.P.; the Rev. H. R. Haweis; the Rev. Harry
Jones and Mrs. Jones ; Mr. S. C. Hall; Mr. C. Hill, J.P.; Mrs. and
Miss Jacquet; Mr. Harwood Harwood, J.P.; Mr. and Mrs. H. M.
Dunphy; Mr. Hollingshead; Mr. Henry Neville ; Mr. Frederick
Harrison; Mr. Hardman, J.P.; Mr. Julian Hawthorn ; Mrs. Henry
Wood; Mr. J. C. Jeaffreson; Mr. Blanchard Jerrold ; Mr. C. Kent;
Professor E. Ray Lankester; Mr. Marshall, J.P.; Mr. Marten, Q.C. ;
the Rev. J. Norman; Mr. Newmarch, F.R.S. ; Mr. Ouless; Captain
Bedford Pym, M.P.; Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Rossetti; Mr. Charles
Reade; Dr. Richardson, F.R.S. ; Dr. Sieveking; the Rev. Dr.
Scrivener ; Mr. and Mrs. Spender; Mr. Palgrave Simpson; Sir Robert
and Lady Torrens; Sir J. Tyler ; Mr. and Mrs. Triibner ; Mr. C. F.
Yarley, F.R.S.; Mr. W. H. Harrison; Dr. Weymouth; Sir W.
Wyatt; Mr. Wyld, J.P.; Mr. Wedgewood, M.P.; Dr. and Mrs.
Waddilove, and many others.
| Spiritualism and the Newspapers.—It has often been noticed that
provincial papers are more truthful in relation to Spiritualism than
those in London, that, as a rule, they take more pains to ascertain what
are the facts, and display more fearlessness and independence in making
them known when discovered. A recent example of this has been
furnished by the Barrow Herald; it has printed three or four im¬
partial reports by its own commissioner, and several columns in length
| each, of Miss Wood’s seances in Barrow-in-Furness, and concludes the
| whole narrative with the following remarks: — “In concluding my
account of these seances I may say that I have endeavoured to give a
plain, impartial outline of them. There is something very perplex¬
ing in the phenomena; as I have the greatest faith in Miss Wood’s
| honesty, believing her to be, in some unaccountable way, merely a
| passive instrument of a power which science as yet has not formu-
] lated. I simply know the fact that evanescent forms of some kind
were in the room, visible to all, possessing power to do all the
things I have narrated, and more than I have recorded, as the notes
| I made were necessarily brief. I can offer no opinion where these forms
came from, nor where they went to when dissipated. As I stated
[ before, I examined the room, also the veiled recess, called a cabinet,
and found no trap doors, nor any implements of trickery—nothing
] more than a chair in which the medium sat, and in which she was
| tied. The room was so small that the slightest movement of the
medium behind the curtain could be heard, so that no change of dress
could be made, even had it been possible for her to have slipped out
of her bonds, which I have evidence she could not have done. Nor
! j was it possible for her to have a large stock of muslin stowed about
I her—as her scant proportions and black attire plainly indicated.
' | Besides, she was stopping at the house of friends who, if there had
II been any semblance of imposture, would have exposed it. We were told
[j by them that Miss Wood came without box or bag, her travelling ae-
: companiments being only a waterproof cape in a strap, so as to re-
| move all doubts as to her integrity, I say this in justice to the young
I lady. However, I must leave the unriddling of the phenomena to
i psychological, investigators. I only know such wonderful facts did
j transpire. How I do not know. Here I must leave the question,
j having simply done my duty as an impartial journalist. I trust the
i verdict of those who were present at the stances will be that I have
(j given a truthful, unbiassed, and honest report.”
308
THE SPIRITUALIST
June 29, 1877,
foettfi. j ■ I
A MIRACLE OF LOVE. . ■ ^
She dreamed her love had left her, and she lay jvj
Deserted, in a lone and silent room j) j
Where sunbeams never entered, and the day :);
Borrowed from night one half its solemn gloom, i 1 \
And many black-robed figures stood around, * i \;
And dark black banners waved beneath a spellm
The wind moaned through the chinks with dismal sound, j; j
Upon her form the heavy shadows fell. |) |
And while in misery she rested there, u j
Her beauty paled, and swiftly fled away; . jyl
All the bright glory vanished from her hair, j|!
Which faded even to an ashen grey. i) ]
Soon all the light died in her eyes of blue, i j i
And in them came a strange unearthly look; . ' m
Her sweet red lips too, lost their rosy hue, I) ;
And her fair face a weird expression took. I) j
When lo 1 her love returned, and as she stood, i j j
The darkness faded, and the sunlight streamed ’ i) {
In at the casement in a perfect flood, |.| |
And on the blazoned banners brightly gleamed. j) I
Angelic beings moved along the floor, | (!
Lo ! a bright halo spreading everywhere, i (j
And dainty flowers bestrewed the threshold o’er i) |
Whilst rich-toned music filled the very air. j)|
Then she arose in all her beauty sweet, | (i
Her deep eyes glanced with sudden flashes bright, hi
And rippling down to meet her blue-veined feet, i j |
The long locks fell, a shower of golden light; U !
Her lips were parted like the opening rose, ; it;
Her glowing face like some high angel’s shone,
And such sweet holiness did it disclose, m
It made one feel more pure to look thereon. i( I
Her lover clasped her; ’twas a golden time, i);
And almost wild with rapture did they seem; I i f
Why seek to read the meaning of my rhyme ? h !
You know’twas nothing but a maiden’s dream. , •' i|j
0. A, B. | I
(Eomsponuence. i I
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed j J j
to those of this journal audits readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned; h i
copies should he kept by the writers.\\ j
SPIRITUAL METAPHYSICS. It ;
Sir,—Mr. H. G-. Atkinson says “we have nothing to do with what | i
things are in themselves.” If such a sweeping annihilation of all it j
science were to be admitted, we may say with Epicurus that every sen- [j j
sation is dXoyog, and shut our eyes and our books for ever. As I under- i j
stood Mr. Massey’s interpretation of Hegel, the distinction between jj.l
“ nothing ” and “ not being ” is clearly marked out; as in fact Hegel j(j
said when he laid down his axiom Seyn unci Nichts ist dasselbe” I
cannot admit Mr. Atkinson’s enlogium of Humboldt, who may rank j j
with the compiler of Bradshaw’s Guide, an excellent author, but rather j K!
With a gift of specialisation and a tendency to crowd too many subjects j j
on one page. Even if I were to grant that metaphysical speculations end j j
in “ mere conflicting utterances,” I would suggest that some at least of j |
those utterances are probably right. The object of every science appears | |
to me either to know what a thing is, or to know what it is not ; in fact, ! j
to be able to predict affirmatives or negatives to any given proposition, j 11
as Abselardus did when he wrote his Sic et Non. i) j
I agree with Mr. Stain ton-Moses that the phenomena (of which no j j
careful observer can now have a doubt), should be explained. But I j)j
venture to contend that we shall never be able to understand them till j j
we penetrate into the underlying philosophy of the subject. Of course ] j j
my own views as to “ form ” may be wrong, though I am inclined to j j i
stand by the old aphorism, “Forma dat esse rei datque distinqid.” I ihj
think that metaphysicians can amend the phrase “ passage of matter j \ \
through matter,” by the substitution of the words “ passage of form I) j
through form,” to which I do not yet see the logical objection.
I am glad that we are now beginning to discuss these grave subjects, l( |
as whatever individual opinions may be sacrificed, the interchange of I) |
thought must tend to advance the common object for which SpirituaUsts, j |
psychologists, and metaphysicians are firmly combined.
 — C. Carter Blake. Ij j
Sir,—Mr. Atkinson’s controversy with Mr. St. George Stock, in your ] |
columns last year, had prepared me for his protest against any attempt | I
to bespeak interest in metaphysical studies. I presume that it is to the i j j
ontological schools that his objections refer, for surely he cannot slight j) j
the results of metaphysical analysis (though it is in truth from these | (:
that idealism emerges). Indeed, it is only by this path that he can have j i i
arrived,- like many others, at the conclusion that ontology, or a real ;)j
knowledge transcending phenomena and their laws, is a hopeless and j j j
impossible quest. “ We have nothing to do,” says Mr. Atkinson, “ with || j
what things are in themselves,” but without the advantage of past meta- I) |
physical analysis he could never have framed that sentence; so, accord- j j |
ing to his own showing, metaphysics have done something for the ji i
advance of knowledge, viz., in assigning its limits. And if people will j) i
go on talking about “Matter,” with the constant assumption that it is j j
a real self-subsistent substance, or entity, and while speculative i j
materialists see in this hypothetical dead something the “ promise and | J
potency of every form of life,” metaphysicians must continue to insist |
on being heard, at least in this negative province of their activity.
Mr. Atkinson seems to consider (with many other thinkers), that the i i
whole issue between Materialism and Idealism is one of words. But I Jv i
maintain that it is impossible to judge whether this is so or not without
an examination of the systems of philosophy to which I invited atten¬
tion. Nor could Mr. Atkinson’s proposition be even intelligible to any
one who had not advanced so far at least in philosophy as to apprehend
clearly the distinction between “ things in themselves” and phenomena,
and the fact that our senses give us no information whatever about the
former. But for Berkeley and Kant, among the moderns, we should
never have got even thus far. But having reached this point we see
the difficulty of even stating the issue between Materialism and Idealism.
When, for instance, Mr. Atkinson tells us that “ mind itself is but a
function of a physical or spiritual body,” he certainly postulates the
“ thing in itself.’’ Supposing him by mind to mean consciousness, he
must mean, not, of course, that the phenomenon or object perceived (the
body physical or spiritual), is the cause or underlying reality of the per¬
cipient, but that one unknown and unknowable something is the cause
or underlying reality of both subject and object—in other words of per-
cipience, regarded as the indifference of these two. And then the ques¬
tion arises, Is this Materialism ? or may it not just as reasonably be
represented as Idealism? The Materialist aspect would be that the
“ thing in itself ” need not manifest its product in consciousness, con¬
sciousness being its accident, not its essence. The Idealist aspect would
be—the r thing in itself” is spirit or activity, which can only manifest
its product, nay, can have no product at all except in consciousness^
Unmanifested existence—or, as Fichte’s translator renders daseyn,
ex-istence, is no existence. The Idealist and the Materialist are at
one in this, that the ego and the non-ego are not distinct beings without
necessary relation to each other. To pursue the subject further from
this point would necessitate an exposition in some detail of the specula¬
tions of Fichte and Schelling and Hegel, the former representing the
subjective Idealist, the two latter the ontological argument. What is
practically important to observe at present with respect to the utility of
metaphysics is that the Materialist is necessarily driven by the stress of
his own indispensable suppositions into ontology. Beginning by a denial
of spirit as prior to and independent of the phenomenal matter, because, as
Mr. Atkinson once expressed it [Spiritualist, May 19th, 1876), “ Some¬
thing unextended would seem to be nothing at all; ” he is forced by
metaphysical analysis to relegate his “ matter ” to that same realm of
nothingness. Nevertheless, in building up his system, and in deducing
his practical consequences—such as consciousness being a “function”
of matter—he obtains the assent of the multitude, who have never
thought, perhaps never heard, of the distinction between phenomenalism
and ontology, and who imagine themselves to know perfectly well what
“ matter ” means, and that it has a great advantage over “ spirit ” in this
respect. Mr. Atkinson objects to ontology ; but can he escape from the
dilemma that the only possible alternative of ontology is idealism ? For
if we do not go beyond phenomena, we do not go out of consciousness,
their esse, be it repeated, and, if necessary, repeated ad nauseam, being
only per dpi, including, of course, in this expression the representative,
as well as the presentative, or intuitional consciousness.
Neither Newton’s nor Humboldt’s warning, cited by Mr. Atkinson, has
any true application to the question of the speculative utility of meta¬
physics. Humboldt’s, no doubt, had reference to imaginary applications,
leading to aberrations in physical science, of Schelling’s Nature-Philo¬
sophy. But protests against substituting an a priori for an inductive
method in science, should be taken with the important reservation in
favour of a perfect philosophy, when such shall exist. At present they
only mean this, that induction from facts is a surer method of arriving
at truth than deduction from a false or doubtful or immature philosophy,
which, I suppose, nobody would dispute. If they are taken to mean
more than this, and to deny the possibility of arriving at true philosophy
—aye, a philosophy that shall reveal the laws of nature—save through
the pedestrian method of “ observation and experiment,” I can only say
that no reproach of medievalism, come though it may from the great and
good men named, will quench my faith that such a philosophy is capable
of being intellectually discerned from the necessity of the rational pro¬
cesses immanent in nature, and wherein spirit consists. As Schelling
says, “The highest perfection of the natural sciences would be the
perfect spiritualisation of nature’s laws into laws of intuition and
thought.” C. C. Massey.
Temple, June 24th. ■ • -
A SPIRIT MESSAGE.
Sir,—The following spiritual communication from a brother who
passed from earth in infancy, was given through the mediumship of the
late Mr. G. B. Prichard, January 7th, 1872 :—
“ Carry yourself as one who has his own fortune in his hands, that is,
with confidence and calmness. The might of the heathen is nought,
and the power of the worldling is a sham. Live on, not simply drawing
the breath of earth, but as enjoying the atmospheres and sunshine of
that heaven which the Lord fills with His blessings for those who will
enter it and partake of its bounties. The trials of the hour are the
mortal’s blessings, so soon as the hour shall have passed. The horror
of darkness is the night of disbelief, which, in a point of time, haunts
the child of light in the winter of spiritual dearth; but then the light
shineth in darkness, and though the darkness comprehendeth it not, yet
at that time the children of light (for the future is bare to the prophetic
eye) hail the light, and the moment of their horror is fled for ever.
What has the Christian to dread in the frowning skies, and in the
tempests of the earth? They are in the lower states of his outward
man. The light from within plainly tells him they pass away when they
have done their work of cleansing and purifying, and then come sun¬
shine, and the zephyrs of the spring, which usher in the fruits of summer
—of summer, with its azure skies, its verdant scenes, and its lakes and
rivers, reflecting all the beauties from on high. How everything in
nature unfolds tfle tale of the Almighty love! Alas! how slow are men
to read it, and how readily they might read. Lo! The day-spring from
on high! Where ? where ? says the outward man. ‘ Not here, nor
there,’ is the answer from above, ‘ for the kingdom of heaven is within
June 29, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
309
you.’ The objector saith ‘ No ; | the affirmer saith ‘ Yea/ And as
days pass, and as states ripen each in its appointed time, the ‘ no ’
becomes fainter and fainter, dies into a whisper, then is heard no more,
and in its place a bright and clear affirmative falleth upon the ear.
Read, then, the tale of the Almighty love in His book of Life, His book
of Nature, and in His hourly revealings in the affairs of men. None
need fail in reading and understanding His books, His works, and His
providences in life. Let men put away their vain sacrifices and oblations,
‘ they are an abomination ’ to Him; He takes not delight in blood, nor
in the sufferings of the lowest of animated life; all enjoy life from Him
in their varied grades and conditions, till the sacrificial knife of man,
and his cruelty, make all creation groan and travail. Justice and judg¬
ment, not oppression. The peace-offerings of the heart throw their
incense, which are grateful odours to the nostrils of the Most High.
These reflections will help you and others on the road of life.” P.
Upper Norwood.  
MISCELLANEOUS SUBJECTS.
Sib,—Being from home when in due course my copy of the 8th
came to hand, I have only just read Mr. H. G. Atkinson’s communi¬
cation, and others of considerable interest. With Mr. C. C. Massey’s
paper I have much sympathy, my own experiences being similar to
those he relates of himself. I have not much personal experience, but
I argued, as he seems to have done, and rested upon the testimony of
those who appeared to me to be as truthful and capable as I can pro¬
fess to be. Those who—
In blind and naked ignorance
Deliver brawling judgments, unashamed
On all things (Vivien),
in season and out of season, are very numerous. They never spend a
shilling in search of truth, but are ever ready to pronounce oracularly
upon the foolishness of those who do. “To be taxed with folly by
fools,” as Mr. Massey remarks, “ is no new experience.” He quotes
Tennyson, as above, with strict appropriateness. The following from
Goethe is no less so, and bears testimony at once to the universality of
insolent ignorance, and to the impenetrable mental opacity of the sub¬
jects of it:—
“ And upon the wind-swept peaks of Armenia,
And down in the depths far hid from the day,
Of the temples of Egypt and old Abyssinia,
This, and but this, was the gospel alway:
‘ Fools from their folly ’tis hopeless to stay !
Mules will be mules, by the law of their mulishness ;
Then be advised, and leave fools to their foolishness.
What from an ass can be got but a bray ? ’”
Will you kindly bear with a word of admonition to some of your
correspondents who, it appears to me, do injury by extravagance.
Mr. A. J. Smart is an offender in the present number of The
Spiritualist. His words are—“ There are thousands of intelligent men
and women who...... by the recognition of spirit communion, and a
reverent study of the spiritual phenomena and philosophy have
had set before their aspirations ideals of purity and goodness infinitely
more lofty than those of any sect or church in Christendom.’’ To say
the least, is not this a rash assertion ? The writer’s acquaintance with
the literature of the present-day pulpit is surely very limited. Allow
me to recommend him to read the sermons of Caird, Tulloch, Temple,
Brooke, Sears, J. J. Tayler, Robertson, Channing, Martineau, and
Haweis.
Mr. Atkinson, judging from his letter, would seem to have met with
a phenomenon that was new to .him, yet I can hardly think wholly so.
Some of the circumstances are common, I think I may say, to every
man who has had the misfortune to lose a limb. That “the spirit
pervades the whole body ” is a matter iterated and reiterated in every
volume of Swedenborg’s. What is new to me is what Mr. Atkinson
relates, as testified to him, that the person who had his arm cut off
from the shoulder .and who is certain that he has a spiritual arm,
“ sees and actually feels with his other band this spiritual arm,” and
that “he can touch anything, and even puli up many things with the
spiritual arm.” This part of the phenomenon is something of which it
is difficult to form a conception. Perhaps what Swedenborg says of
the “ cutaneous covering of the spiritual body ” (D. L. and W. 257)
composed “ of the purer substances of nature ” (White’s Life of
Swedenborg, 2nd Ed., p. 147 ; and references, A Layman's Reply to
Dr. Pond, p. 176) may suggest to your correspondent a solution. See
further, Acts v. 19.
Upon reading Mr. Atkinson’s letter I at once recalled what I had
read some fifteen years ago bearing upon the phenomenon. The volume
I refer to was written in French by J. E. Le Boys Des Guays. The
English edition, which is before me, is dateless, but the preface to the
second American edition, edited by Dr. Bush, bears the date of 1848.
I think there have been subsequent editions, and that the work can be
had of Mr. Spiers, Bloomsbury. The title is, Letters to a Man of the
World. Letter Y. treats on the present question. In Letter XII. the
author remarks upon what Mr. Atkinson says is “ very suggestive.”
“ Now,” says Mr. Atkinson. “ although a man’s arm taken off is not
renewed, yet the parts severed from many other creatures are, and
may not the spirit form of the lost part be the source and explanation
of it ? ” My letter is already too extended, but I will add a short
paragraph from M. Guays touching this particular point. His theory
is based upon and expository of the philosophy and theology of
Swedenborg, who is admitted to he the most distinguished seer known
to history. The author says—“ The animal exists only because it is the
correspondence of certain spiritual substances and forms, of which the
whole together has constituted the spiritual body upon which corre¬
sponding material particles are moulded. Here is explained the
mystery of the life and generation of all that is born, grows, and dies.
j .... Why have a great many animals—and principally the saurians—
j) | the faculty of reproducing amputated members ? How is it that the
j( | foot of the lizard, when torn off, grows out again ? One of two things
| (j —either nature performs a miracle, or else material substances mould
| j I themselves upon the spiritual body, as upon a model. This solution
] |! can alone explain why hybrids and mules cannot reproduce themselves;
i 11 why the graft can only be performed upon trees of the same class, for
111 though material forms maybe coupled, it is impossible in the same
11 j manner to establish spiritual forms.”
! j One word more. Touching what I have said is new in Mr. Atkinson’s
i i letter, I would ask, is it not probable that the amputated subject is a
ju medium? “The person who has lost a limb preserves his spiritual
i j j body entire ; if the spiritual limb is not visible......it is because the
ji j material is not capable of seeing anything but what is material. It is
| (! not, it is true, the material eye which sees; it is the spiritual eye ; but
[)! as in general the spiritual eye cannot see in our world but by the
j|| medium of the material covering,” &c., your readers may consult
if! further Swedenborg’s Heaven and Hell, No. 344; Wilkinson’s Life of
iji Swedenborg, p. 226; White’s Life, pp. 222-3; Arcana Celestia, Nos.
||j 1880, 9577,9814. J. De Maine Browne.
i (! Manchester, 19th Juno.
j PARAFFIN MOULDS OF SPIRIT FACES, NO. 3.
jfl Sir,—Your number of June 8th contains an account of the first
|!! manifestation of this new and splendid phenomenon—-that is to say, of
i) j the first two moulds of faces we obtained ; the first only as deep as the
|( | middle of the cheek (at 194 degs. Fahrenheit), the second so far back as
||| to include the ears. I told you how wondrously beautiful were the
i j results. Also that we were promised, so soon as our interrupted
| ( seances should be resumed (an interruption first caused by the absence of
111 John King, and then prolonged by that of the medium, Firman) that we
!j should receive what would be a great advance upon that phenomenon,
I namely, whole heads and necks, dipped before our eyes into the melted
j paraffin. Six different ones have now been promised to us. As this
\ constitutes a new chapter in the records of Spiritualistic phenomena,
| which must run through a considerable time, I think I cannot do better
m than to journalise the succession of our experiences. This may be at
| | once more interesting and more instructive to your readers than my mere
: (| summarising results at the close.
ijj Tuesday, June 19.—Found Firman had at last returned last night,
iji Seance held for simple consultation of John King as to the satisfactori-
i (| ness of our preparations, and to our course of proceedings. He
|>j approves them, and directs us to abstain from all questions on other
i {I matters outside of the “ bathing business ” in hand. Says he is better
|| and happier for where he has been; and where he has (l put up prayers"
j for us. Asks us to put up prayers for him, and to pray to God for help
for the good success of what we are about. No other manifestations
j than that of his voice, followed afterwards by writing. Precise direc-
I tions given in both modes. We are to have the paraffin ready melted
to-morrow.
. Wednesday, June 20.—The paraffin bath (vertical cylinder of tinned
|(! sheet iron, 24 inches deep by 18 diameter) in front of the middle of the
| j curtain. Small narrow table in front of that, at which we sit, in chain
ijl of hands (Mrs- Firman, Count, and J.) Basin of cold water, and large
i | musical box on table. Begin with strong and fine electric vacuum-
|j| tube light. Presently strong raps on the cylinder, very sonorous.
| j j Directed to put out the light. Soon J. K. appears with his lamp. The
| | cylinder filled, from two-thirds to three-fourths, with the melted paraffin
j(| at 85 degs. centigrade, 168 degs. Fahrenheit (much too hot; ses-Spirit-
| j ualist of 8th). John’s light not very good. He spends a full half hour
|i or more, talking to us, showing himself from head to foot with it, toiich-
| (i ing us. with it, rapping strongly with his luminous stone first on the
iji musical box, or the cylinder, and then instantaneously on the ceiling;
| | trying to strengthen its luminosity from the Count’s influence by placing
iji it on his head, flourishing it about with rapid shoots of movement,
i j | making with it some half-dozen times the sign of the Cross vertically
i I in the air, or horizontally above the paraffin bath. He grasps my
I j | hand with one hand till my bones ache, pats on the head with the other,
i j i puts the other arm round my neck, and applies his face caressingly to
i j j mine. Does same to the Count. Through all this I supposed he was
i j | waiting for the paraffin to cool down to a proper degree of density (when
In all was over we found it had not fallen below 82 degs. cent., 163 degs.
; (i Fahr.). But at last he told us he was sorry to have to disappoint us for
|ji to-day.
i j; He said he could not “ get up ” his light well, nor materialise heads
i j j and forms well, though he had been trying to do so. That they would
i j | have been imperfect, and he wished them to be perfect. That he thought
|j| we should succeed to-morrow, and that they meant to begin with that
| j | of Glaucus, of whom only one mould was to be taken (he had before
iji told us that Glaucus had consented to only one). He told us not to
iji have the paraffin much above the melting point, as it would then
I j | adhere much better and give better moulds. He told the Count that
ij| when the mould should have been taken he would place it in his
ij| hands, and that the form could then be better “ dematerialised out of
iji it,” Without liability of the mould to break in falling. He took an
|ji affectionate and solemn leave, with prayers for the blessing of God,
| j I and kind messages to the Countess, to two other ladies who have
|j| been occasional attendants. He said that Alexandrine would make
ijj her mould when her brother (a wealthy and distinguished Russian
|( | gentleman, now at the baths of Vichy), should be present. I told him
ijl I had ready my portrait (an ordinary carte-de-visite photograph), which
|j I he had before said he would give to my mother, just as he had asked the
|j | Count for his—which the Count promised him in a medallion—(how
| j | strangely like human life this sounds!) I said I would not interfere by
|j ] giving it now unless he chose. He said I should give it to her herself,
j (j He has told the Count in reference to his, that he would prize it, and
810
THE SPIRITUALIST. June 29, 1877.
show it to him when he (the Count) should come to their side. The good j (
Count is the object of his most particular affection—though I am far ]
from having any disposition or reason to complain that he does not i /
reciprocate mine for him. | j |
Thursday, 21st.—Nothing but John’s talking, and that only after ||
three-quarters of an hour of waiting. The weather too unfavourable, j) j
Great regret expressed at his being compelled to disappoint us. Hoped ; (I
for better to-morrow. Said we want a good thunderstorm to clear the j)j
atmosphere. He wrote afterwards: (i The weather being so warm, the m
hot paraffin in the close room makes it so hot that we cannot possibly hold | (|
together. I had Glaucus materialised several times, but the moment 1 j)
tried to materialise in one place, he melted, as it were, in another* until i(j
I felt quite discouraged. We must try and keep on until we get it?' ||j
Friday, 22nd.—Pretty much as yesterday. We had a basin of freez- j i
ing mixture on the floor (pounded ice and salt) to cool the confined room, j i |
and a large tub of iced water, to receive the mould after its formation, j j
John seemed quite distressed at having again to disappoint us. The | i
Count suggested putting off till Monday. John said he would come | (j
early to-morrow, and “ be about," and judge whether it would be worth m
while to try; and that he would write whether to bring in “ that big thing J j j
—that barrel I suppose I may call it—of the paraffin?' If we should I (!
make the attempt, he said it must be done very quickly, and that he >
would try with the spirit he could best form. j |
Saturday, 23ref.—Curious and instructive experience. John first | |
wrote that the weather was still very bad, but we might as well try. j)j
He soon spoke and showed his light, but it was only the ghost of it, as m
it were. We could barely see the white outline of a figure behind it. j j
He called our attention to the poorness of his light, and said that was a j j
measure of u the power.’’ I did not see the face, but we heard several j !
quick splashing dips, followed each time by the sound of the copious K|
dripping of the liquid paraffin back into the vessel, as the head was j j
withdrawn. We were pretty copiously splashed with it, especially I. j j
(The table no longer intervened between us and the cylinder. It was j j
placed on one side, and we sat in close contact with the cylinder.) The i i
face was evidently dashed quickly down on and into the surface of the j |
paraffin, and besides raising the liquid stuff nearly up to the edge of the j > i
vessel, it dashed out a considerable volume of it in a direction which j |1
was unfortunate for me as I happened to sit. We asked John if it was |
Glaucus. No; he was not here to-day. Was it the same one as before? |)
No, it was another young lady ; we should know her when we saw the |
mould. But he presently asked us when our Russian friend, who had |)
been here some time ago, and was at some baths, would be back? We i)
answered that it must be pretty soon, as he was to stay only a month at j (
Vichy. “ Well, it was Alexandrine, his sister, and she made this trial jj
now so as to know how to do it for him when he arrives—to accustom j) i
herself?' Presently he added : % It is only half a head ; no use trying j) |
for the whole head till the weather is better." The Count meanwhile had j \
received it into his hands as before (see your number of 8th inst.), and n
had deposited it in the tub of iced water to harden.
And there we found it, when we lighted the candle. It was indeed j|j
Alexandrine, as we well knew her. At the first,glance it seemed a | M
splendid success ; closer examination showed it to be a partial failure, j (!
Yet the success and failure, blended in the one mould, involved double j; i
instruction. Viewed in profile, and in one aspect in front, it bad a i}|
celestial beauty similar to, while different from, the former moulds. The j(j
face was larger than the former, as we had always seen it to be. The >
hair was built higher up on the top of the head, in elaborate coiffure, j)j
than in the case of the other. It included one ear. A long curl hung (
down on one side, as we were accustomed to see it in Alexandrine’s >1
materialisations. Yet, on closer and continued inspection, we found J
something strangely wrong. On the upper part the head was unnatur- j (j
ally twisted to one side. The ear stood out almost at right angles, \:\
instead of resting flat on the side of the head. Below there was, not j)l
exactly a double neck, but the neck almost doubledin breadth. The i(j
lower part of the right cheek, or jaw, was magnified out of all proportion |)|
to the left. It would seem that the first materialisation, formed for the |) j
first quick dip, or rather rapid dash into the liquid, had failed, or melted j (j
out of form after its model had been taken, and had then been rapidly |)|
reconstituted for the next and the next dips; but reconstituted with ijj
change—unintended, but real change. Possibly, it might have been i(j
that she plunged hastily at different angles of incidence. It is certain j /1
that there seem to be two faces there blended into one ; divinely beautiful ](
on the one side, and precisely Alexandrine, as we have so often admired j(j
her, but wholly out of form on the other, and in the ensemble as a m
whole. She evidently acted with precipitation, with a sort of fright, i (j
To get a good result she ought to have dipped steadily and deliberately, n
and without any dash and splash, as was done on the former occasion; j / j
and so she, no doubt, will do the next time, now that she has had the |(j
experience of a first lesson, when her brother will be here for the | |
definitive operation. But the Count has taken the present mould to be |)j
cast as it is, because it is even more curious and instructive than would j (j
have been a perfect, unblemished success at the first attempt. John H
afterwards wrote : “ On account of the weather, we could not hold well j)|
together, so the face fell in where we could not hold out. We have to do K i
these things almost in a moment, and that is how we could not keep Kj
together. She got frightened and disturbed, and that caused the
splashing." Something curiously like this occurred in our first moulds of I \ j
John’s light, or stone, which came out, not exactly round, as we always m
see it, and as it always came out afterwards, but distorted quite out of m
its proper circular shape. ju
I make no apology for giving these details. It is in them that the Ij]
value of instructiveness chiefly lies—at least so far as regards all i(j
speculation as to the modus operandi. We are told to try again to- HI
morrow; and that it will be with another spirit, the same one whose j 5 j
two exquisite moulds we already have. John says: 111 will try her iu
* Compare this with some of our former observations of imperfect and partial mate- I (i
riaUsations. (See The Spiritualist of May, 1877, page 207, second column.)
whole form, but if the weather is not better, I had better only give the
half again." He evidently does all he can with the amount of “ the
power " available on the occasion. My humble function is simply that
of keen observer and accurate recorder, for the purpose of giving to the
outside world what I regret to thus occur under the eyes of only three.
I try to make your readers as much as possible witnesses of what we
see. But, I repeat, try these things yourselves. Through Williams, in
London, if you will work as we do, with patient perseverance, I see no
reason why you, too, should not equally succeed. Probably, too, through
Firman’s mother in Manchester, Mr. Reimers would get the face and
head of that spirit, “ Bertie,’’ whose hand and foot he has already got.
Is there not something curiously kindred in the mediumship of Firman
and of his mother ?
Sunday, 21th.—Still another disappointment to-day, for a reason not
worth explaining. The spirit of whom we have our two moulds, and
who was to have tried to-day for the whole head, if possible, wrote that
she could not come to-morrow, “ having to go on a mission," but would
on Tuesday; that to-morrow “my own dear friend will try again?'
That means Alexandrine, who yesterday made the experiment which
was half a success, half a failure, as above set forth. She evidently
means to prepare herself well by practice for complete success for her
brother.
Monday, 2oth,—A perfect success with the face of Alexandrine, as far
back as the ears. Extremely beautiful. The paraffin just about at its
melting point; which is the best temperature. John King could not
“get up " his light, though he kept us some time waiting his efforts to do
so. He asked if we were willing to have it done in the dark; “you
have already seen it, and will do so again?' We answered that he should
do as he pleased, and as he could; it was now all the same to us. But
we were enabled to follow the course of proceedings, by hearing what he
would be saying to the spirit, almost as well as though we had seen—
such things as, “Now. Now; don'tbe afraid—don't splash"—“ Courage,
courage?'—“ Now again?'—“ Once more. Courage."—“ And now once
more, and that will be enough. Courage. Courage." Such were the ex¬
pressions we could hear him speak, in a low tone, evidently addressed,
not to us, but to her. We also exhorted her to courage. Coincident
and corresponding with them, we would hear the dips of the face
alternately into the paraffin and the cold water, followed always by the
dripping back into the respective vessels, as the face would be with¬
drawn. “ Fm sorry you can't see," said John, in his usual voice, to us;
“ but you have seen, and shall see again to-morrow?' We replied that it
was almost the same as seeing, as we could follow every step so clearly,
by what we heard. At last it was finished, having occupied perhaps
two or three minutes. “ Will you take it into your hands, or shall she
leave it in the cold water V' The Count received it into his hands (as
before), and lowered it into the water. After leave-taking as usual, and
on the light being struck, there it was floating, beautiful indeed! When
we turned it over so as to make it float outside upward, it reminded us of
the familiar engraving of the Christian martyr (the girl floating down a
river). There are no two blended into one as on Saturday. The head is
slightly inclined to one side. She afterwards wrote, hoping that we had
been pleased; she had done her best; and adding, naively, “ I turned
my face a little, so as to give myself a little grace." All this is practising,
and accustoming herself, for when her brother arrives from Vichy, when
she is to dip vertically and completely.
Both John King said, and she wrote, that to-morrow the other spirit
of whom we have already two moulds, meant to dip for the whole form,
and under-light (which happened to fail us to-day; probably all “ the
power” was absorbed in the materialisation).
In this case it is evident that only the front half of the head of
Alexandrine was materialised {formed as you call it), and that it was
let down horizontally and carefully into the paraffin, for the surface of
the paraffin, is some eight or ten inches below the rim of the cylinder,
while the length of the mould, from the top of the copious hair to the
root of the neck, is just about the diameter of the cylinder; so that she
could not have bent over to dip, as might have been done, if the liquid
had been up to near the top of the vessel.
So far as can be judged from the outside of the mould, not yet cast, I
do not think that ideal Greek art ever produced a more beautiful face.
It is longer and larger than the other one, a circumstance which has
been before mentioned as having been always noticed by us. This does
not seem at all below the full size of nature (I mean our human nature).
I am rather inclined to think that the neck may have been less carefully
and perfectly formed than the rest, less condensed, as it seems to be a
little too large. We are quite certain that in the various materialisations
we have so often seen of the same spirits, the face is sometimes larger,
sometimes smaller, than at others. It would seem to be a question of
degree of condensation at different times, in the same forms and propor¬
tions.
Tuesday, 2Qth.—Splendid success of the attempt promised yesterday.
The whole head and neck obtained, with two or three inches of the ex¬
pansion from the root of the neck towards the shoulders. The same
exquisitely lovely girl-spirit of whom we have already two face moulds.
Will not some of the more thoughtful inquirers think it worth while to
come to Paris expressly to see for themselves, and then ponder over the
problem how that beautiful head, on which the mould had formed itself
by the adhesion of the liquid paraffin (at temperature of 122 degs. Fahr.),
ever got out of the orifice left by that delicate neck ? And how that
elaborate coiffure of hair ever detached itself from the liquid paraffin
hardened upon it by the action of cooling it in iced water ? Present, the
Count and Countess de Bullet and myself, besides Mrs. Firman. In¬
teresting particulars next week. The next mould promised, after an
intermission of rest after the “ great effort,” is that of Glaucus.
Paris. J. L. O’Sullivan.
Sir,—I give your readers a few theories of my own from some
experiments I made in paraffin moulding at the time when Professor
June 29, 187.7,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
311
Denton’s success in America was first reported. 1st. Hot water under
the wax is worse than useless, as it will stick to the hand and scald it.
It does this in virtue of its being a good conductor of heat and its
not solidifying at ordinary temperatures. The wax on the other hand
will solidify in a thin film around the hand, and this film will act—as
long as it lasts—as a non-conductor of heat. If, however, the hand be
kept too long in the molten wax, the film will melt and it will be
scalded. It is necessary, therefore, to dip the limb into the wax and
withdraw it as quickly as possible, and to repeat this process until a
sufficiently thick layer has adhered.
2nd. Now, having dispensed with the hot water, let us see to the
temperature of the wax. I found that paraffin evaporates at a great
rate if raised to a heat much above its melting point, and that by this
evaporation the temperature was kept down to what might be called its
boiling point, just as in the case of boiling water. It is impossible,
therefore, to make the wax too hot for taking moulds, if the dipping
process be properly managed; and it is not absolutely necessary to
have a vessel of cold water near by, in which to cool the mould. John
King has found out that hot water is not necessary, and says that it gets
mixed up in drops with the wax, thus spoiling the mould. This is no
doubt true, but I think the other matters of consideration so important
as to demand further investigation. H. M. M.
THE LATE PROFESSOR GREGORY’S WORK OX MESMERISM.
Sir,—The constitutional conditions of human nature vary so much, |)j
both as regards body and mind, that it is very difficult to arrive with i < i
certainty at any general conclusions. This, every thoughtful physician j j j
will readily acknowledge : for instance, the medicine that will cast one j)!
person into a profound sleep will excite another to an unusual wake- j
fulness; in fact there seems to be nothing more uncertain than medi- j > j
cine, except it be ,e the glorious uncertainty of the law.” Hence the j||
difficulties in regard to all experiments and tests in respect to the | (j
nature of man, as we have seen in the investigations of mesmerism, j)j
clairvoyance, phrenology, Spiritualism, and even in the latest attempts j
of Dr. Terrier in regard to the functions of the brain—phreno- (
mesmerism being the only special and available influence in that re- )
search. j j j
My late friend Professor Gregory says he found that many mesmeric |( j
sleepers had a great “ unwillingness to name any person, place, or ob- |) j
ject,” and that these would seek to describe, rather than use, the appro- j j j
priate name.” If this were a very general fact it would be most remark- I j
able and interesting, but in all my experience I never observed any j j
such disinclination. In all cases the language of the sleeper was just j( j
what it was when awake, except in those instances of passing into a j j
state of loss of identity, and even in such cases the language used was j j
not essentially different; certainly there was no unwillingness to name j j
others, though they may have forgotten their own. I think, there- |)i
fore, that investigators had better compare notes before they generalise j j
and write books, but Dr. Gregory’s work is quite the best on the sub- j |
ject, and seems to have closed the mesmeric ora before the advent of i
Spiritualism. My Letters to Miss Martineau were published in the j j
same year (1851), but took a wider range in respect to method and the j |
nature of man ; it did not relate only to the phenomena of mesmerism. ) j
Every real student and investigator of the science of man and mind— J j
let him term himself physiologist, philosopher, psychologist, or Spirit- |
ualist—will find Professor Gregory’s work indispensable to his labours, j
and important to his conclusions, as the fullest and best summary of |
the whole subject on which it treats.
Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S. |1|
Boulogne. ■ ■ ■■■ j j
CLAIRVOYANT SEANCES IN BRIGHTON.
Sir,—The following is a pendant to the letter I sent you recently. |j j
Insufficient notice was given at the time to the war scenes in Asia, and | j i
the Turkish spirit again presenting himself at a short sitting on Sunday ! j j
evening and reaffirming the actuality of the scenes, the clairvoyantes j (
were called on to describe again what they had seen, which, in brief, j) j
was as follows :—
They first saw Russian troops, horse and foot, crossing a stream or iji
small river, and then lost sight of them for a time. They next saw, by j/j
the light of a village apparently on fire, the Russian troops, distinguished i (j
by their dark uniform, surrounding a smaller force, having as part of n
their uniform something white—either a scarf or a cape—of which at !) I
the time they took no more notice, but which we now know to be the j (i
distinguishing badge of Circassian troops. An engagement began by jjj
firing, which continued some time, when suddenly the Russians closed j)l
on the Circassians, and a desperate hand-to-hand conflict ensued, with jjj
much gleaming of bayonets and flashing of swords in the ruddy glare of j) j
the burning houses. The sights which the clairvoyantes now witnessed jj j
were so horrible and sickening that they could bear to look no longer, j j j
and the scene was withdrawn. As before stated, the Turkish spirit j
positively affirmed that the events were actually transpiring in Asia, jjj
Now the important point is this:—These scenes were witnessed and ijj
described by the clairvoyantes in England on Thursday, May 31st, |5j
between half-past ten and eleven p.m., and on the following Monday, jjl
June 4J,h, appeared in the Daily Telegraph, by telegram from its special j j j
correspondent, the first account of the surprise and massacre of the j)j
4,000 Circassians on the very date and in the very manner described.
At the same short Sunday sitting we were informed that the wedding, I j i
of which intimation had been given, was to come off on the next Thurs- jjj
day at 5 p.m. A little before the time one of the clairvoyantes went and jj j
locked herself in her room where she was entranced for more than an jjj
hour, and on returning to tei'ra Jirma, affirmed that she had been taken j j j
to see the ceremony, of which she gave a description. Later in the j j j
evening, at our usual time, we held a seance,and two of the clairvoyantes jj i
were speedily transported to the scene of the wedding festivities. Dane- j j j
ing was at that time actively going on, in which, strange perhaps to nj
relate, they joined. They gave minute descriptions of their partners 1 !
j j and of the festivities. The ball-room was decorated with flowers, which
j j entirely covered the walls; the music was behind a beautiful screen of
j j flowers; the room was lighted up by large stars; and flying unrestrained
j j about were birds with plumage of lovely colours. Among the dancers
j j was a little boy with large blue eyes and golden hair, named Sunbeam
jj (the spirit of an infant known to some in the circle), with a suitable
(j partner. There were many rooms, with very varied company, amount-
jj ing to several hundreds, including both ancient and modern personages,
j The scenes were very beautiful, but require a lady’s pen for their descrip-
j j tion.
j j On their return to the circle the clairvoyantes were taken for a short
) j time into a sphere of a different nature, to be shown the home of a
jj spirit who had previously visited the circle. The following is the des-
ji cription of the scene given by one of the clairvoyantes in her own
j j words:—“ Undine’s grotto was one of the most exquisite places I ever
j j saw. There was a beautiful grotto ornamented with shells, and sea-
j j weeds, and corals, and leading from the entrance was a path down to
j I another grotto of like appearance. Between the two was a seat carved
j j out of the rock. Growing on each side of the path were lovely sea-
j j weeds, with shells of various hues, and branches of crimson and white
j j coral, the colours of all of which blended harmoniously together. On the
j j seat was Undine herself, clad in a pale green dress of some shining
j j j material, trimmed with sea-weed of different colours, and having also
sea-weed in her fair hair. On each side of the entrance to the grotto
was a beautiful branch of crimson coral and sea-weed, with large shells
of pearl. Round the entrance in the rock were rows of tiny pearl
shells and little white pebbles, and the floor was strewn with pebbles as
white as snow. The aural atmosphere around every object was of a
pink colour.”
An Egyptian high-priest next appears, with robes and breastplate;
He holds in his hand a roll, inscribed “ Occultism,” and is attracted to
the circle by the interest which one of the members takes in that subject.
He is unable, however, to communicate, except in ancient character,
through the hand of one of the mediums. He is succeeded by the Turk,
and the clairvoyants are taken to Batoum, in Asia Minor. They see the
environs, the port, and the shipping. The Russian forces are some dis¬
tance from the town, on the land side. There is cannonading; the people
in the streets are running about in great confusion; a priest is standing
at the door of a mosque, looking calm and unconcerned. Notwith¬
standing the firing and disorder, nobody seems to be hurt, nor damage
of any kind to be done. Are the clairvoyants at fault ? Is the Turkish
spirit reliable ? We are mystified, and can obtain no explanation. It is
late, and the circle breaks up.. This was on Thursday: in Saturday’s
Daily Telegraph a telegram clears up the mystery:—On the night, or
evening, of our sitting, the Turkish Pasha at Batoum had ordered a
false alarm, and the commander of the war ships had been making
experiments with his cannon to ascertain the range of certain parts of
the fortifications, with a view to certain eventualities. This fully
accounted for the anomaly in the clairvoyant’s description of firing and
confusion in the streets, and yet no hurt or damage of any kind being
perceptible. The time (not specified in the telegram) with us was
between ten and eleven; if the difference in longitude is to he taken into
account, it would, of course, be considerably earlier there.
The above was written and ready for posting last evening, when a
thunderstorm drew two of the clairvoyants down to the parade on the
cliff, to view the play of the lightnings over the sea. While standing
there they witnessed an exceedingly bright spirit emerge from a dark
cloud, and pass with lightning speed across the sky; and, a few minutes
after, a diagonal line of dark spirits in the clouds. A heavy fall of rain
then forced the clairvoyants in-doors, and put a stop to their observa¬
tions. A. Snow.
18, Atlingworth-street, Brighton.
Wm. Dinning.
2, Eastern Quadrant.
Dr. Slade’s offer to Professor Lankester will be published as an
advertisement in The World next week.
Mrs. Weldon’s Concert.—At a concert given at the Langham Hall
on Thursday afternoon, last week, the “ Sea of Galilee ” was declaimed
by Mrs. Weldon with customary effect, and Dr. Bernhardt’s St. Cecilia
Choralists rendered successfully some of his pretty and quaint compo¬
sitions. Miss Masson deeply impressed the audience by her touching
rendering of Tennyson’s “Dora,” and Mr. Geo. Grossmith, jun., kept
the listeners in fits of laughter with his account of “ Private TJtieatricals
at Thespis Lodge.” The attendance was large and fashionable. The
programme will be repeated on Thursday afternoon, 5th July.
Spiritualism in Liverpool.—Last Sunday evening, June 24th, Mrs.
F. A. Nosworthy was the lecturer at Meyerbeer Hall. She took for her
subject—“ The Identity of True Christianity and True Spiritualism,”
and pointed out, not only the striking analogy, but absolute sameness
of the religion of Christ and the daily life of each real Spiritualist, when
practically devoted to truth, justice, goodness of heart, and self-sacrifice
for the welfare of others. The wisest and best teachings of the angel-
world, as she proved by excellent illustrations, were always consistent
with those beautiful utterances of the spirit divine attributed to Jesus of
Nazareth. Mrs. Nosworthy then proceeded to criticise the facts and
fallacies of each sect now comprising the religious world. This part of
her discourse elicited the unanimous approbation of the large body of
intelligent listeners. She concluded an eloquent peroration by urging
upon Christians and Spiritualists to show by spirituality of heart and
life, that lovers of God and humanity were practically possessed of the
graces of soul exemplified in the character of the Great Spiritual
Teacher. It is hoped that Mrs. Hardinge-Britten will occupy the plat¬
form of Meyerbeer Hall, on Sunday next, but, in her absence, Dr.
William Hitchman will deliver a scientific lecture, on the “ Physiology
of Trance,” in its spiritual and natural aspects, both ia ancient and
modern times.
312
THE SPIRITUALIST
June 29, 1877,
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES. j I
BV MISS KISLINGBTJRY, AND C. CABTEK BLAKE, DOC. SCI. j W
The Messager de Liege contains an appeal from the j j
Yicomte de Torres Solanot, president of the Spanish Asso- ! ;
ciation of Spiritualists, to Spiritualists in all parts of the j j
world to send representatives to a great international con- ! I
ference in Paris, next year, during the time that the ) j
Exhibition is being held there, between the months of May I I
and October. The Messager concurs heartily in the idea, j j
and declares that the Belgians will be ready to furnish their j j
contingent. England must not be behindhand in this work, j
and will doubtless be ready to join in it when the moment I j
arrives. m
It had been intended to hold a national meeting at Ostend ! j
this year, but in consequence of the death of the lamented j |
Dr. Dupuis, a Spiritualist of only three years’ standing, but ! |
an ardent defender and zealous apostle of the cause, both in j j
speech and writing, it has been decided to change the place j j
of meeting, and Brussels will probably be selected.
At Louvain, the Etudiant Catholique has published an j j
article ridiculing the astronomer Flammarion on account j i
of his relations to Spiritualism. France has also its Car- IH
penters seeking to drive nails into its Crookeses. | |
The Moniteur, the new organ of the Federation Beige, has, j j
much interesting matter in its eight little pages, and bids j
fair to become a useful journal. The following is an extract j !
from its report of M. Riko’s paper on Spiritualism, read at j j
the Hague - |j|
Spiritualism was necessary, for men had made so horrible a picture j j j
of existence after death that all but a few refused to believe in it; our ] 1
relations and friends were exiled after death to such remote and inac- i‘j]
cessible regions that no one liked to dwell upon the subject; in fact, m
one left off thinking about them, because, according to this doctrine, one j(j
dared not believe that they could be near us on earth. Their reappearance |! j
was feared, and the thought of entering into communication with them j / j
made one shudder. Even religious people had persuaded themselves Hi
into a denial of the action of spiritual beings in nature, and into j(i
rejecting the belief in the inspiration of spirits as mere self-deception jj
and unworthy of the attention of thinking and reasonable beings. For |{j
all these reasons spiritual manifestations became necessary.
Dr. Van Dooremaal, of the Hague, bad previously given j j
a lecture against Spiritualism and Mesmerism, which was ij|
published as a pamphlet. For its population and area, I |
Belgium perhaps stands first in the march of progress, j
Though a Catholic country, it has five journals more or less j i
devoted to Spiritualism, viz. : De Rots, Le Messager, Le m
Moniteur, Le Chercheur, and Le Galileen.
Among the French publications we have to notice a book j jj
of communications obtained through a writing medium of j I
Bordeaux, Madame de Krell, entitled Rayonnements de la jj
Vie Spirituelle. The communications, varying from one to I j
five or six pages in length, and signed by names more or less j j
illustrious, consist of advice to mediums, especially on the ] j
subject of healing, and of homilies more or less edifying, j I
Some of these teachings, rendered into English, would be [j
invaluable for reading at Sunday services, should such ever jj
be established on a devotional plane. The French and j j
German Spiritualist literature abounds with these moral, j j
exhortatory addresses, but they are comparatively unknown j j
in England. A part of the Rayonnements is devoted to j j
poems received in the same manner as the prose; some of j j
these, especially those signed A. de Musset, are really j j
beautiful, and have considerable merit as compositions.
Psychic Studies (Leipzig) has, among other papers, an j !
interesting article by an Evangelical clergyman on the levi- j j
tation of one of the saints of the Romish Church, Joseph j j
von Copertino. jjj
Allan Kardec’s Mediums' Book has just been published in j j
a German translation at Leipzig, the work of Mr. Franz j j
Paolicek. j
A private society of Spiritualists at Vienna has addressed j j
an invitation to Dr. Slade to hold a series of seances in the j i
Austrian capital this autumn. Dr. Slade’s decision in the j j
matter is as yet unknown. jjj
The Criterio Espirista (Madrid), for May, contains, under j j
the head “Spiritual Propaganda,” an editorial article, in jj
which it is pointed out that more than fifty organs now ijj
exist, devoted to the Spiritual movement. This is followed j j
by an elaborate translation of the proceedings of the British j j
Association for the Advancement of Science, on Professor jjj
Barrett’s paper, under the head of “ Spiritism Classified
as a Science,” from the Revue Spirite. A note is inserted,
addressed to ourselves, stating that the Spiritualists of Spain
are by no means literal followers of all the teachings of Allan
Kardec. “ They respect the master, but hope to correct and
improve his work.” We feel it only just to explain that we
had no intention to impute any disparaging observations to
our able contemporary, and that we are now for the first
time aware that the Kardecian doctrines are undergoing a
process of solvency in Spain. At the same time we are
bound to observe that our expression “ have the disadvan¬
tage,” is, to our mind at least, unnecessarily harshened into
“ tienen, por desgracia, la enorme desventaja.” We repu¬
diate the offensive construction which such words convey.
The general news in the Criterio is excellently prepared, and
we are always gratified to read the first and best of the
Spanish periodicals.
The Revista Espirista (Monte Video) for February is
before us. The articles therein, with the exception of the
first, have already appeared in the chief continental spiritual
journals. The selection, however, has been well made,
though we regret the unnecessary importation of so much
irritating theological and controversial matter. The science
of Spiritualism can afford to dispense with any extraneous
subjects whatever.
The Ilustracion Espirita (Mexico) for May is devoted to
articles on “ Spiritualism and Rational Socialism,” and a
most amusing article on “ Lycanthropy,” in which the various
histories of the men who, under abnormal conditions, have
declared themselves to be, or have been declared by others
“ were-wolves,” or loups-garous, are collected with great care
and bibliographical acumen. The rest of the magazine is
devoted to an address in favour of the principles of
homoeopathy.
The Ley de Amor (Yucatan) for May 1st, is before us, and
contains the usual information from the Peralta Club.
We have never yet seen the Revelacion (quarterly) pub¬
lished at Buenos Ayres, the Aurora, of San Paulo in Brazil,
The Echo dAltem-tumulo (echoes from beyond the grave) a
monthly at Bahia, or the Tiempo of the province of San
Germain in the same empire. We should be glad to receive
these periodicals in exchange. We also hear that a paper
termed the Revista Espiritista is about to be published at
Santiago de Chile.
O
The Inquirer’s Circles of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, at 38, Great Russell-street, London, which were interrupted
by Mr. Eglinton’s illness, are now being continued weekly, with Mr.
C. E. Williams as medium.
A Supernatural Bedfellow.—The Liverpool Daily Post of June
15th quotes the following from the Montreal Gazette:—The good people
among the hills of Morris County,N.J., have found excitement in the case
of a young girl said to be “ grievously vexed of the devil,” and whose
condition is as unaccountable as it is deplorable. The girl is a daughter
of Elijah Nichols, blacksmith, of the Glendon Iron Company, at
Hurdtown. She predicted evil against her fifteenth birthday, which
befell on the 13th of October last, and since that date she has been
bedridden and paralysed. At times there appears under the counter¬
pane of her bed a presence as of a rat, a rabbit, or a cat swiftly moving
from place to place and eluding detection. In vain is the bed stripped,
or the patient removed to another place ; the “ presence ” is only power¬
less to act when the mother sleeps with the child. The physicians, no
less than the clergy, and the common folk of all the country-side are
baffled. Crowds come daily to see the mystery. On one recent
occasion Mr. Richards, Mayor of Dover, held his stiff hat above the
,f presence,” and the hat received a blow that crushed it. Violent
blows have been given to the hand, to a cane, and to other objects held
out over the place where the “presence” was, and, needless to say,
attempts to grab the “ presence ” have failed. All the while the girl
lies moaning as if in terror or pain, and her position in the bed would
be plainly such as to show that the mysterious movements were not
caused by her. The girl has been known to abstain from all food for
the space of fifteen days, and for some weeks past she has only received
a little milk daily, yet her face is fair, and, when the visitation is not
nigh her sleep is apparently healthful. Her parents are plain and
honest people, who view this as an affliction not to be turned to account
for notoriety or money. The neighbours, unable to account for it in
any other way, have solemnly decreed witchcraft against an old woman
living among them, and charms are in active demand.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
S. P., Liverpool.—As the subject is in your mind, why not start it yourself?
Southport.—An inquirer into Spiritualism wishes to come into communica¬
tion with others in Southport interested in the subject.
* * , Barrow.—We do not, as a rule, desire to publish any anonymous letters
about manifestations through professional mediums.
June 29, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Offl.ce, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the promises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
T • who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
- price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’S views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who Investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.8. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of Interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SOIENOE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.'
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. Ss. 6<L
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,“also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by tbe Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yola,, crown 8vo., 16s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epea
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion ; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents : The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
leving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit! and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Bupernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo„
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in " The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a|trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this hook, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits tbrougb
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains tbe
- testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated tbrougb.a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADIO AT, RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUYOLENOE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orcsland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by tbe
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com-
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR,'SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
17ie “ Poughkeepsie Seet\" s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 o
The Physician. Yol. I. Ot. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .78
The Seer. „ III, „ , , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V.   7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis . . .76
i Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children's Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . , .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Sear. (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . , ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .86
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .20
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . , . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . 5
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . , .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Key. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Transited into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S'anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams. Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. ■*. .2
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .12
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . ' . . .18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . 10
CARTE BE TibiTE PHOTOGRAPHS OF •CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten: 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L’. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITS PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
AMERICAN PAMPHLETS.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. Is.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrieally through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell Is. 6d.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
Is.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SOIENOE? by William
D, Gunning. Gd.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R T.
HaUock. Soiled, Is.
THE LIFE OF MARY WHITTEY, the Catholic
Medium, by A. B. Dorman, of Connecticut. Is.
THE VOICE OF PRAYER, a Poem by W. S. Barlow.
6(1
NEW TESTAMENT MIRACLES AND MODERN
MIRACLES COMPARED, by J. H. Fowler. 2s.
PHILOSOPHY OF SPECIAL PROVIDENCES, A
Vision, by Andrew Jackson Davis. In paper wrapper, Is.
By Eoyal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair ‘Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mmeral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267,High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Mediumship : its nature asd
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaming such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
** Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C,
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
JUNE 29, 1877,
The great question of the day-.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of. illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death- of PRINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS. —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
; PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
huuted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable.' The Fruit Salt (one of nature’s own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &e., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover,-a pleasant; refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have Hesitation in stat. ? that, if its GREAT
V 4 T.I7E is-keeping the body healthy was’ Umveisally known,
not a household in the-land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.;
' |/iNO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
I 'I “ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, END’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
THE REALITY OF SPIRIT
PROVED FROM RECORDS AND WORKS ON THE
SUBJECT.
BY “M.A. (OXON.).” ,
Introductory Chapter.—The general aspect of the subject:
its many-sidedness. Certain broad views to be more par¬
ticularly illustrated in subsequent sections. The claims and
present position of Spiritualism.
SECTION I.
Historical.—A retrospect of the history of the subject, illus¬
trated from Epes Sargent’s Planchette (reviewed), Mrs.
Hardinge Britten's History of American Spiritualism,
Wallace’s Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, Howitt’s
History of the Supernatural, Shorter’s Two Worlds, Judge
Edmond’s Tracts. •
SECTION II. .
Scientific.—Dealing with some aspects of the phenomena of
Spiritualism in reference to theories and explanations that
have been given. Hudson Tuttle’s Arcana of Spiritualism,
(reviewed), Hare’s ■ Spiritualism Scientifically Explained,
Crodkei's Researches, De. Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit.
SECTION III.
Phenomenal.—Dealing with published accounts of form-
manifestation, especially from Olcott’s People from the
Other World (reviewed), Epes Sargent’s Proof Palpable of
Immortality, Wolfe’s Startling Facts in Modern Spirit¬
ualism;
SECTION IV.
Religious:—Showing the religious side of the subject as
brought out in Crowell's Printitive Christianity and Modem
Spiritualism tr&ri&weA), Dale Owen’s Address to theClergy
in his Debateable Land, S. C. Hall’s Use of Spiritualism.
SECTION V.
CLATT>,Tr”Y^tNCE.—Dealing with the inherent powers of the
incarnate human spirit, especially that of clear-seeing or
. supersensuous perception, as exemplided in simple dear-
sight or psychometrioally in Denton’s Soul of Things, and
Andrew J. Davis’s Magic Staff (reviewed), Cahagnet’s
Arcana de let vie Future. _w
- SECTION VI.
Occultism.—Dealing further with certain occult powers of
the human spirit, and with phenomena attributable to them,
as shown in Art-Magic, Ghost-Land (reviewed), and further
illustrated by records of phenomena hitherto unpublished.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of END'S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in' the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &o., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the.Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Hharf Disease,^and .Sudden Death. |
Notwithstanding its medicinaL value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, 6v as'
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances', and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L A.O., London, writes
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. . Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to .thousands of bottles-per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. -India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for. at , least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years."
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it to their friends. "We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says be never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Pan's—PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX.
THE TRANS-CORPOREAL ACTION OF SPIRIT,
Especially during Sleep: Immediately Before, and at
the Time of Death: and under some Strong Passion
or Emotion.
[This will form a considerable section, distinct from the rest
of the book: and will include a large number of facts, new
and old, arranged on the principle of reference to their deter¬
mining cause, where such can be ascertained.]
NOTE.—The above scheme of the book of essays and
reviews previously announced, is a draft only, subject to any
alterations that may be deemed desirable. It is published
in compliance with a request from many sources for informa¬
tion as to the title and scope of the work. The title now
affixed explains what is intended. The scope of the work is
to notice some aspects of Spiritualism as they are presented in
the works of other authors; and so to point out and summarise
the best books on the subject.
Though the plan may be modified, it will not bo substan¬
tially changed.
The sections which deal with the phenomenal and religious
aspects will be so arranged as not to trench on the works
announced for future publication—Spirit Teachings and
Researches in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism.
M. A. OXON.
The volume will be published at 10s. The names of sub¬
scribers should be sent to F. Percival, 15, Conduit-street, W.
London, May, 1877.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion,-try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are,to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of >the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations. . * -
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets, of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any .communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but' an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of .the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind, sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably^be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person'only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful," and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals-be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly,-will-you signal every
time I.come -to the letter- you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage?” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
_ Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order *t6 get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
' MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR'
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By ihe'late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated' by; the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke- of Argyll.
The second and slightly'revised and abridged edition,
Will be but in a few days, price 5s;, or 5s. 6d. post free; or
five copies post free for;21s. Subscribers will be supplied with
early copies, in the rotation in which their orders and remit¬
tances are sent. "Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
^-Process-for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—^Truthfulness ofthe Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards tke Operator—Effect in the Waking
State ot Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipatliies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Byes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision....
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Provision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr.- Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act-Lphenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy .of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It. P
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid or Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions —Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by poncentration—Major
Buckley’s Method —Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII :—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.
SOCIABLE EVENINGS.
Every Monday Evening throughout the year, at 8 p.m., at the
Langham Hall, Great Portland-street, for the benefit of Mrs.
Weldon’s Orphanage. The first Concert took place on Monday
evening, November 6, 1876.
Stalls (a limited number), 5s. each; centre seats, area (a
limited number), 2s. 6d. each. Admission, Is. Transferable
tickets, for a series of three months: stalls, £2 2s.; centre
seats, area, £1 Is.; unreserved seats, 10s. 6d. Mrs. Weldon
earnestly solicits subscriptions, donations, or old clothes
towards the increase of her Orphanage, which she started
eight years ago, and which has, till now, been supported
entirely by herself. Mrs. Weldon has been obliged, for want
of a larger income, to refuse as many as five forsaken children
in one week. Tickets may be obtained, and subscriptions,
donations, &c., received by Mbs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.Q ,
respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High HolbOrn
in the Parish of St. Amdrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. ALLEN, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
