registered as a Newspaper,
o© ?#YCfioi<oGUC&i< £dis$X£s<-
ajjtt rmuudtl) tviitlj Spiritualism irt ^riiaitt.
TH E “ SPIRITUALIST ” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: ‘‘Religio-Philosophical Journal" Office. MEMPHIS ^
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 225. (VOL. IX.—'No. 20.) LONDON : NRIDA-Yj DECEMBER 15y 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Attacks upon Mediums 229
Awkward Facts among Sceptics ...   ... ... ... 229
Olairaudients of Genius:—Socrates; Tasso; the Maid of
Orleans     ... ... ... ... *   230
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries. By Emily Kislingbury
i and 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci. ... ’ ' ... 281
Mr. Blackburn's Stances. By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci. ... 282
Spiritual Phenomena among the Ancient Egyptians... ... 282
The Relation of Spiritualism to Idealism. By Dr. Franz
Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy at Wurzburg Uni¬
versity...     ...  233
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Conversazione
The Slade Prosecution—Scientific Bigotry and Dog¬
matism—The Misses’Fox    ... 233
Dr. Slade at Manchester. By Charles Blackburn  234
Experiences with Dr. Slade. By the Rev. John Page Hopps,
Editor of The Tntthseeker ... ... ... • 234
Wanton Aggressive Action against Spiritualists... ... ... 235
Slade ,Writings     ... ...  235
The Revival of Antiquated Theories     236
The “Imposition" Argument  236
Mr. A. R. Wallace on Psychological Phenomena 236
Answers to Corresp ndents....... ... ...   236
Poetry:—Lines by Dr. Slade—A Song of the Circle—The
Closing Year—“If I Die First."—“Hull and Fare¬
well I"—Far from the Haunts of Men   287
Correspondence:—Spititualisra, a Sham or a Reality?—
Mr. Williams’s Seances—North of England Spiritualists’
Conference Committee—A Seance' with Dr. Slade—
An Explanation   ... ...    ... ... 237
Mr. O. C. Massey on the Slade Prosecution   238
Opposition to Religious and Scientific Truth in San Fran¬
cisco. By the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly Ameri¬
can Minister at the Court of Portugal ' ...  239
Indian Yogis   ...    ....    239
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—Psychologi¬
cal Experiments—The Phenomena of Artificial Som-
—:-namhulism... ... ... ... ... ; ‘240
Paragraphs:—Sunday Lectures in Liverpool, 229; Civili¬
sation in Australia,229 ; Mr. J. J. Morse in Lancashire,
235; SpirPualDm at Home, 239; A Somnambulist in
Church, 239; Spiritualism in Newcastle  ... 239
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE,
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rrHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
lets in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to Its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions fu its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S.. Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, out lias, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. tlie Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S. r Lord Lindsay: the
Hou.'Robert Dale Owen'(formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples): Baron Dirckinck-Holinfeld (Holstein): Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon J. L.O’Sullivan,*formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal: Air. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Daw; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Air. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain ; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
nian (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent*. (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross -Church (Florence Marry at): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; .the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof. Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg): the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. II. M Diinphy,
Barrister-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doe Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope. Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John K. Pardon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr. Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn:
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon): Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
.Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the "Life of Swedenborg”): Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies. D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr.
Algernon Joy*; Air. D.'H. Wilson, ALA., LL.AI.; Air. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Alt. William Oxley; Aliss Kisling-
bury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Air. J. N. T.
JVl'artheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Air. W. Lindesay
Richardson, Al.D. (Australia): and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Alontgomery.-pl.ace,
Boston, U.S.', and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. ■  ■  
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational' addresses every Sunday evening .at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seanc*
on Wednesdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seanee, 5s, 6d.; for-seance only, 2s. 6d.
•E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for December, 1876.
Friday, 1st.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, Mi.—Seance Committee at 7 p m.
„ Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 6th—Soiree at 38. Great Russell Street, at
7 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
Thursday, 7th.—Mr. Blackburn's Seance, at 7.30. Mr.
Eglintoij, medium.
Friday, 8th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Tuesday, 12fA.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting, at 6 30 p.m. At the
close of the ordinary meeting of Council, a
Special Meeting will'be held to consider
Resolution 653, as stated in Report of the
last Meeting.
Thursday, 14fA—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
W. Eglinton, medium.
Friday, 151 A.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, \8th.—House and Offices Committee,,at 6.30 p.m.
„ Library Committee, at 7 p.m.
„ Discussion Meeting at.7.30 p.m.
Thursday, list.—Soiree Committee at 6.80 p.m.
„ Mr. Blackburn's Seance, at 7.30 p m. Mr.
W. Eglinton, medium.
Friday, 22nd.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.80
p.m.
Thursday, 28th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seamx, at 7.30 p m. Mr.
W. Eglinton, medium.
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances are free to inquirers, who must be
recommended ty a member, or apply personally to the Secre¬
tary. Members of the Association and of Allied Societies are
admitted to the Seances by ticket, at a nominal charge, but as
there is a great demand for admission, and the numbers are
strictly limited, it is necessary to apply s^me time in advance.
CHRISTMAS CLOSING.
The Offices of Ihe Association will be closed from the 23rd
to the 27th December, inclusive.
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Socieiy.”
The conditions were that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom de plume of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publica’ion, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Eussell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O. Price Is. ijd., post free.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A GENERAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILL BE HELD IN LONDON, AT
38, GREAT RUSSELL, STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
On ihe 7th, 8th, and 9th of Febuarg, 1877.
The following subjects are offered as suggestions for papers,
but essays on kindred subjects will also be received :—
1. TheBestTests of the Genuineness of Physical Phenomena.
2. The Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism.
3. Has Spiritualism given any New Truths to the World ?
4. The Evidences of the Identity of Communicating Spirits,
5. The Relation of the Law to Public Mediums.
6. The Aims, Ends, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
7. The Best Means of Directing Attention to the Importance
of the Private Investigation of Spiritualism.
8. Spiritualism as a Religions Influence.
All papers to be sent to the - Secretary, 38. Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, not-later than January 20th, 1877; the
papers to remain the property of the Association, subject to
the conditions laid down in rule 37,
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES.
MR. T. P. BARKAS, F.G.S,
Begs to announce that he proposes to deliver a series of 81
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES, in the Lecture Room.
Nelson-street, Newcastlo-on-Tyne. on the Thursday evenings
of each week, commencing shortly.
Doors open each evening at 7 o’clock; Chair to be taken
at 7:30.
LECTURE I.—The Worshipful the Mayor will preside.
Subject—“The Scientific Principles involved iu raising the
Vanguard, and a criticism of the methods proposed.”
LECTURE II.—Thos. Foster, Esq., Sheriff of Newcastle, will
preside. Subject—“Pneumatics; or, the Laws and Pro¬
perties of Air and other Gases, with remarks on the Navi¬
gation of the Air.”
LECTURE I1L—Councillor H. W. Newton will preside!
Subject—“ The Structure and Functions of the Brain and
Nervous System, comparative and human.”
LECTURE IV.—Councillor J. O. Scott will preside, Subject—
“ The Latest News from the Stars."
LECTURE V.—Councillor W. Stewart will preside. Subject—
“ Heat; its History and Philosophy.”
LECTURE VI.—Alderman Gregaon will preside. Subject—
“Heat: its Modern Applications."
These Lectures will occupy about one hour each, and at the
conclusion of each Lecture, relevant questions will be
answe<ed.
The Lectures will be illustrated by diagrams and models.
Terms of Admission oy Ticket, to he had of Mr. Barkas, Art
Gallery, and Mr. Blake, 49, Grainger-street. Front Seats, 2s. 6d.
the course; Unreserved Sea's, Is. 6d. the course.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
(he Law of Nations.)
Vice-President. •
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton. Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred £. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theres i Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Tlie objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
Diets affecting Spiritualism ; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordmat y experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to ths
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
formation of circles and conduct of seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the month*
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study Of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, dc, &c , apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts,- Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange,. Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4. excepting Saturdays, then froth
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with fiiirpaftfcularS, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
II
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 15, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION 03
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President'.
Alexander Galdor, Esq., I, Hereford-squnre, West Brompton, S .'W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Pai’kfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Nonvood.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrulue-street, Hyde-park, W.
: Gregory,Mrs. Makdonprall,21, Ureen-stroet, Grosvonor-siiuare, W..
llitchman, William, 5I.B.0.S., 29, Ersklae-streot, Islington-sq.,,
Liverpool. _
Honywood, Mrs., S2, Wavwick-sqnare, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.lt.I., Barristcr-at-Law, Goldsmith-builds-
Massed,’ C. C., Barrister-at-law, 9C, Portland-place, W,
Itamsay, Mrs., 4(1. Bryanston-square, W.
Itogers, E. D . Hose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin It., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.AV.
Speer, Stanhope Tern pieman, M.l >., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N., Kden-yilla, Cairns-rd.,New Wandsworth.Sk.'W,
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.AV.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, liichmond Hill.
Binney, F. A.,22, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, in, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley.Ttev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth-
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Kichmoud Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, liichmond-hill.
Cooper, It,, Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heaih, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, 1, Cornwall Residences; Regent’s-park, N.AA’’.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Soiitliern-liill, Reading'.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.AV.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Oheetlnun, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 0, Loughborougli-rd, Northi
Brixton, S.AV.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., C, Loughborough-road, North Brixton-
S.W. . -
Glendinning. A., 4, Castledine-road, Aiierley-road, S.E.
Hayie, Thos.. M.l)., 'rite Crescent, Rochdale.
Hihde, Those, 4, Cobden-street,-Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamerc-crescent, AVesthourne-square, AV.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, AVest-end, Doddingtoii-grove, Kenniiigton-
park, S.E.
Isham, SirCliarles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton. .
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, C4, Seymour-street, AV.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.AV.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, K., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maitby, Mrs., 41, Marylebope-road, AV.
Mawson,AArm. Kr.yhan’t, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, AV. D., 20, Tredegar-road. Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. AVarwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow. E.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 17, Richmomi-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. VV. W., 118, Albany-street, Uegent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Kicliard, 8, Fassett-rOad, Dalston. E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Itose-villa, Cimrch-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
roaa,SE.
Stravhndge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbrldge, Mrs. G.N., Aitnandalc, Central-hill. Upper Norwood, j
Stock, St. George W., ALA., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Miklinay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park,’Blackbealb. S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Raj idol ph-erescont, Maida-vale, AV
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, AV.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
AVfjson, D. H. l\r.A., LL.M., PosteRestante, Algiers.
Wtseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
AVtthall, Miss H., 1, Tlie Elms, St, John’s-rond, Brixton, S.AV.
Withail, Hm 3, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AV..
Wood, Mrs,, Bedford House, Carlyle-squure, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin li. Smith, Esq., Hoathlands, AVimbledon-ebmmon, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr, J. H. Andre. Mr. II. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 3ft. Great Rnssen-street, Bloomsbury,
London, AV.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtcnberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia,
Prince Emile do Sayn AVittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Catnp General de S.M.I. do 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
A.hmed RasslmJPacba, Khan deRassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gouobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria, ’
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de T'orres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, TT.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, IJ.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mi Ur a, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hai'dinge-Britten, 118, AVest Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drunimond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, AVurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.,
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kofneystrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.'
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96; EkssieU-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue tie Lille, Piris?’1
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box SftSS, Boston; U S',A.
XL. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq.,M.D.,l96, Clinton-avenue. Broaklyn, New York,
i U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-Geiieral de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernou-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
, Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
! J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
. Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Roeroi. Paris,
j Rev. Samuel AVatson,Memphis, Tennessee. U.S.A.
! Lutlier Colby, Esq., 0, Montgorhery-plaee, Boston, U.S.A.
j M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeek, Brussels
« M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de i’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
J Brussels.
| Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
1 Z. ’Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
u Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel rte 1'Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris,
i J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloueester-plaee, Dorset-square,
j London, N. W.
J Captain R. F Bnrton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
II A. It. AVallace, Esq.,;F’.lt.G.S., Itosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Kiel), Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunliut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Budu-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjea, Hungary.
J. AAr. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Haliock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. It. Haliock, 64, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
]] Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples,
ij Dr. Puol, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
| Herr J. H. Stratil. Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna,
li M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
f The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 63, Nowlands-street, Liverpool,
j L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.AV.
The Spiriter-Eorsclier Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
j The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. 0. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
! Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—EJ Viseonde de Torres-Solanot,
I Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Itepublica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE LIYEKPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
. President.—William Hitchman, Esq.. M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—'Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos-
' worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry. Arc, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, AVillis, Thackerav, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt. Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
Branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rnHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM. EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Maeshald <fc Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
aro discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years, tResidence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
fNOOD CHAMBERS or FURNISHED
\JT APARTMENTS to LET.. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
TmURNISHED APARTMENTS to LET,
JL' consisting of pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Rail and Omnibus. C. P., 102, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11. Ave Maria-lane. E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme. 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, the two
. CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newt paper
branch office.
AN APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS.
MR. ALDRIDGE (Healing Medium) has
been very unsuccessful in Business this last 3 years,
and failed about 6 months ago—since that time he has tried to
obtain employment but could not, which has rendered himself
and family quite destituie. He is desirous of Emigrating to
Australia by the Assisted Passage, which will cost about £25,
with Outfit and Clothing necessary for the voyage, which he
hopes to raise by Subscription. The next Ship sails about the
middle of January. Cast-off Clothing will be very acceptable,
there being three young children.
7, Alien-road, Stoke Newington, N. 12th Dec., 1876. '
The particulars of this case are known to Mr. J. Wilks of the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.
8, UPPER BEDFORD-PLACE, RUSSELL-SQUARE.
MRS. BURKE has much pleasure in
announcing that she has made arrangements to hold
a seance at the above address, in aid of Dk. Slade's Defence
Fund, on the Evening of Tuesday next, the 19th inst. Two
Rooms will be devoted to the mauifestations—one for Trance,
<bc., the other to the Physical Phenomena. No one special
medium will be engaged, but it is hoped that all those mediums
who are interested will accept the invitation and allow their
powers to be exercised for the occasion. None but known
Spiritualists admitted. Tickets to be procured of Miss Kis¬
lingbury, 38, Great Russell-street; Mr. Burns, 15, Southampton-
row; and of Mrs. Burke, 8, Upper Bedford-place, Russell-
square, London.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book" will he published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, WX!- -
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A, C. Burke
Vojlujvie Kijme. Kumber Twenty.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
ATJACKS UPON MEDIUMS.
In the whole of this country there are but three or four
professional mediums for physical manifestations, and four-
fifths of those who attend their seances are Spiritualists,
consequently it makes no practical difference at all to the
movement, and little to the mediums, if the outside public
arq locked out of doors altogether. The more this is done,
the greater will be the protection from wanton attacks from
without, so that we hope that it will henceforth be made a
matter of grace and favour for disbelievers to be admitted
to any established circle at all ; their opinions about
Spiritualism are of no interest to the initiated, and unless
they chance to be gentlemen, their admission to seances
often amounts merely to a source of discomfort to everybody,
and of satisfaction to none.
Some little trouble to the movement is also caused by the
circumstance that Spiritualists who have had but little
experience, are quite overcome by the wonderful phenomena
which take place in the presence of physical mediums,
consequently they look upon the mortal instruments as pro¬
phets of the latter-day dispensation, but as a matter
of fact there is not of necessity anything of the odour of
sanctity about physical mediums. At the present time there
are two or three in America who are swindling the public
by showing oft* genuine physical phenomena as conjuring,
and it follows that the invisible intelligences aiding them in
this work are as bad if not worse than themselves. The
public pays the penalty of ignorance. There was a time
when a man of ordinary ability who went to a conjuring
exhibition could discover how everything was done; but
now, when Spiritual conjurors occupy the platform, mixing
the real thing with scientific and other tricks, those days
have gone for ever. The public can now only look on with
open mouth, and regret that the intelligence of its oracles is
baffled.
Physical mediumship is also not necessarily connected
with truthfulness, or with high moral character, in illustra¬
tion of which we some time since had occasion to give in¬
formation to Mr. Epes Sargent, of Boston, U.S., of some
fraudulent acts which had come to our knowledge, and that
had been committed by a medium in the United States. Con¬
sequently those who reverence a man simply because he
possesses these abnormal powers may be in a false position,
and do public harm by accepting all the statements coming
from such a source as gospel, more especially when the
information relates to rival mediums or to those who help
them. Moreover, there are many Spiritualists who cannot
see two sides of a case, and who argue that because certain
genuine manifestations took place in their own presence,
therefore, certain other facts which were witnessed at another
time were also genuine, the truth being that it is quite pos¬
sible for imposture and genuine manifestations to be com¬
bined, as in the case of the public conjurors already men¬
tioned.
Another source of weakness to the Spiritual movement lies
in the fact that people of whom nobody has ever heard, and
who may not be Spiritualists at all, sometitnes set up under
the name of 11 professional mediums.” There should be
a long course of testing by trustworthy and competent*people
before any new comer is recognised as a genuine medium,
and something should be done to clear away those novices
who may not be mediums at all, yet who thrust themselves
before the public for the purpose of making money.
Some public body connected with Spiritualism might well
give serious attention to these sources of weakness, some of
which are not due to the misconduct of mediums, as in
instances where unprovoked assaults are made upon them by
outsiders. Consideration might also be given to the dangers
arising from the jealousies of mediums, from the mixing of
DECEMBER 15th, 1876.
|; imposture with that which is true, and from their sometimes
;. thrusting themselves before the public as mediums before
i the genuineness of their powers has been tested.
! When a mesmeric sensitive walks about upon the platform
j | of a lecturer, eating a raw cabbage under the firm conviction.
| that it is an apple, he is not only unanswerable for his acts
| and for the morality and the religious character of his utter-
/1 ances, but he is not usually considered to be a safe leader of
i the multitude. Strong mediums are mesmeric sensitives,
! and often no more responsible for their acts and sayings than
: the example just described.
AWKWARD FACTS AMONG SCEPTICS,
A copy of The Restitution, published at Plymouth, Indiana, has been
forwarded to us. It contains the following letter to Mr. G. M. Myers, of
West Irving, Iowa:—
Bro. Myers,—I am in a terrible dilemma, and feel as though I must
write to you, and see if you can’t help to extricate my friends, and espe¬
cially my wife, from this dreadful (to me delusion) spell that has taken
possession of my wife’s relatives. They are excited over spirit rap pings.
Our niece claims to be a medium, and I have been present at her sit¬
tings. As soon as she seats herself at the table raps are distinctly
heard, and I placed her chair in glass tumblers and her hands on glass
window panes, and all made no difference. I went to her place, and
thought this would stop all communication, but it had no effect whatever.
We received the following by naming over the alphabet. The raps were
heard at the letter indicating the one selected. The first was to me, as
follows: “ Well, John, test it yourself.”
To my wife from her sister: “I am happy, you will soon be with me.”
We inquired how long? It was rapped out “Three months.” Our
niece “ in four months.1’
My wife had another from our child who was killed. It rapped out
his name correctly, said he was a big boy, and that children grew in the
spirit land as well as in this Now, Bro. Myers, if you or any of
our brethren can help me defeat this terrible delusion among my friends
I shall ever be grateful.
As ever, thy brother in the faithful hope of Israel,
John McKee.
Pai’kersburg, Iowa, October 6th, 1876,
Mrs. Elgie Corner (Florence Cook) has left Shanghai, with her
(j husband, Captain Corner, for Nagasaki, Japan.
(! On Wednesday, the 20th instant, at 8 p.m., Dr. Forbes Winslow
\j will, at the invitation of the Dialectical Society, open a debate on
| Spiritualism at the Langham Hall, Portland-place, Regent-street.-
\ i Sunday Lectures in Liverpool.—On Sunday evening, December
11 3rd, Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy delivered an address on “ The Spiritualism
(i of the Poets,” in Meyerbeer Hall, Liverpool. The lecturer observed
11 that the subject was almost exhaustless, and afforded matter for lectures
) j ad infinitum. She made no remarks on the Spiritualism of the poets of
(| the classic ages, excepting that all their works were strongly admixtured
)! with the communion of the spirit world with the material world, but she
) i entered chronologically on the works of British and American poets,
\ | beginning with Spenser, and she discovered Spiritualism and spirituality
) I in the writings of Spenser, Milton, Shakespeare, Addison, Pope, Gray,
(| Cowper, Burns, Shelley, Keats, Wordsworth, Mrs. Hemans, Byron,
(: Moore, Longfellow, Tennyson, and many others. Quotations were given
) I from Milton, Spenser, Shakespeare, Moore, and Longfellow, and great
(| interest was manifested by the audience.
ill Civilisation ix Australia.—A certain chief, a man of intelligence,
and punctual in monetary matters with his pakeha neighbours, was
lately a sufferer to the extent of some T30 or £40 by a man going
through the court. In relating the affair to some natives whom he was
visiting, he told them that he had lost his money by a man becoming
“ packarapu.” This word rather staggered the aboriginals, who im-
H mediately demanded an explanation. It was given as follows : ‘A
s! pakeha who wants to become a “packarapu” goes into business, and
/1 gets lots of goods and does not pay for them. He then gets all the
(: money he can together, say £2,000, and puts it away where no one can
\ i get it—all except £5. With this he goes to the judge of the supreme
)| court and tells him that he wants to become “packarapu.” The judge
(i says he is very sorry, but of course it cannot be helped, and he then
j! calls all the lawyers together, likewise all the men to whom the “ packa-
(I rapu ” owes money, and he says, *“ This man is packarapu, but he wishes
(i to give all he has got, and so he has asked me to divide this (the £5)
j) among you all.’’ The judge thereupon gives £4 to lawyers, and £l to
(I ‘the other men, and the “ packarapu ” goes home,—Banner of Light,
Boston, U. S,
230 THE SPIRITUALIST. Dec. 15, 1876.
CLAIRAUDIENTS OF GENIUS. j
SOCRATES ; TASSO ;, THE MAID OF ORLEANS. i (
Miserere di me, gridai a lui, j)
Qual che tu set, od ombra, od uomo certo. - | j
Hisposemi: Non uotn; vomogid fui. . ' 1 (
Commedia, Dell'Inferno—Dante. jj
I pray thee, pity me, ’twas thus I cried,
Whate'er thou art, a shade, or living man. i j
It answered me: No man am I; I was a man.
If we look through history from the most ancient times j
recorded, we shall find tidings of the verbal communion be- j
tween spirits and men. In the East this communion has j
run in one long unbroken stream down to the present day. 1
It has been kept up on our side by persons constitutionally If
adapted for hearing this language. They have not sought it I
out themselves ; it has sought them ; it is essentially what j
Milton calls it: u a visitation unimplored.”
When the new world was discovered, it was found that the jj
same law held good there also with certain individuals; and | j
it is, perhaps, only in Europe during the last three hundred Jjj
years—a period, by the way, marked by the fast progress of j j
materialism—that any organised attempts, however in- jil
effectual, have been made to treat the belief per se in such j j
experience, with irony, scorn, or punishment. Our enlarged jjj
commerce with Africa daily shows us that the belief that jlj
gods speak directly with men—which was formerly a charac- | |
teristic belief also of Europe and Asia—is still held by some jjj
of the African tribes with primitive tenacity. jjj
But the present object is to dwell rather on a few details j j
concerning the higher recipients of the quality of clair- j i
audience, a very catholic and elastic gift to certain indivi- j |
duals of every race and every religion. This gift has not j j
only come down through the course of ages to the present m
day, but has been equally a heritage of that elastic order
which stretches also from the most intellectual to the least
endowed, bringing with it mental food in conformity with
-the recipient’s power of assimilation, and, sometimes, some¬
thing beyond. In naming Socrates, that wise philosopher
is, connected in imperishable tradition with the mystery
before us; so intimately, indeed, is his honoured name
bound up with this “ visitation unimplored,” as its subject
and exponent, that it seems unnecessary to dwell upon it
here, except to say that his guardian spirit gave every token
of being a good spirit, always urging him to follow that
which was noble and true ; and always forewarning him of
impending evil to himself and friends. For twenty-three
years he was made the butt of Aristophanes, but Socrates
did not the less persist that his daimon was a reality.
Perhaps the clairaudient of genius most similar to Socrates
J in many respects was the poet Tasso. He, like Socrates, was
attended by a spirit of wise and lofty attributes. Tasso, too, like
Socrates underwent the severest persecution for conscience
sake, and, like Socrates, upheld the truth, notwithstanding
the trials which, even ih those days, visited mediums who
acknowledged their mediumship, and were not inhabitants
of the cloister. Ih Notes Historiques de la Vie du Tasse,
taken from the memoirs of his friend, Manso, the Marquis
de Villa, and published after Tasso’s death, we find the
fallowing account of a conversation between the poet and his
Unseen monitor, which occurred in Mahso’s presence :—
r Tasso sometimes questioned, and sometimes answered,
and, by his answers, I guessed the meaning of what he had
f heard, The subject of this conversation was so elevated,
anti the expressions so sublime, that I myself fell into a
sort of ecstacy. I dared neither to interrupt nor to impor¬
tune him with questions, and his vision continued for a long
time. I was made aware that the spirit had departed, by
Tasso’s turning towards me, and saying : 4 For the future
you will not doubt.’ ‘ Say, rather,’ I replied, i that I shall
be more incredulous than ever, for I saw nothing. ’ ”
Signor Damiani, makes the following remarks vo,Human
Nature for December, 1870: “ Tasso’s Gerusalemme is
replete with spiritual philosophy. How familiar to the
Spiritualist is this explanation of the modus operandi of the
spirits: to make themselves visible to us. Speaking of the
angel messenger who appeared to Godfrey, the poet says :—
" He (the angel) surrounded his invisible form “with air,
' “ And rendered it subject to mortal sense.
.Which is the well-known theory that the spirits take from
the atmosphere all the chemical elements necessary for the
j clothing of themselves into visibility.” While, as regards
i Dante, Signor Damiani says :—<£ Dante’s Commedia, from
i beginning to end, is nothing but inspirational Spiritualism,
I even to the description of a stance as in these lines (Canto
f ix. verse 22) wherein the spirit of Virgil is speaking to
| Dante:—
’Tis true, aforetime I returned to earth,
By fell Ericthon* conjured down below,
Who, to their bodies + called the spirits back,
And at that time I had not long been dead.
“ But most conspicuously does Dante show his intuitive
I Spiritualism, by constantly representing the spirits in all
spheres as anxious for a continuance of intercourse with their
friends in the flesh. (See Canto vi. v. 89; Canto xv.
v. 119, &c.).”
It is no small thing to have been able to bring to the
aid of this subject, in this and a recent number of The
Spiritualist, the three greatest epic poets of Europe since
the classic days, Dante, Tasso, and Milton. The two last
are essentially self-acknowledged clairaudients, while Dante
may be well regarded in the same light by implication, if we
judge him by all he wrote. But, since the confining of evidence
of spirits speaking to men to the examples of poets, however
lofty their order, would indeed be a grave error, with so
many to choose from of other classes afforded us by history
throughout the world, it will be our aim also briefly to
introduce the names and characters of practical roorhers
who were likewise endowed with the peculiar temperament
which fitted them to become mediums, whereby spirits are
able to make themselves heard and understood by men
through speaking to them. First in this second category
is Jeanne d’Arc, of the village of Domremy, in the pro¬
vince of Touraine, a peasant girl, who, in her nineteenth
year, changed the fortunes of France through her clair¬
audient powers, and who is commonly spoken of, even in
the present day, as £< The Maid of Orleans,” not because
she was a native of that town, but because she was its
salvation. She is a good example] to begin with, of a clair¬
audient for practical purposes, in contradistinction to the poet.
In order to recognise, in the present instance, the power
of a spirit over matter in an apparently righteous cause, the
wonders of her spiritual work may be prefaced by the fol¬
lowing, historical explanation :—In the year 1429 there were
two proclaimed kings of France, one by might and the
other by right, if it be right that a son should be the
inheritor of his father’s throne before another person of
another country. The king by right was Henry VI. of
England, a child, aged about eight years. He was,
through his mother, grandson to the late king of
France, Charles VI. His uncle, the Duke of Bedford, was
named Regent, and Paris was the then headquarters of
the English. Charles VII., the son of the late king,
was, with his small court, at Chinon, in the province of
Touraine, and at this time the city of Orleans, Charles’s last
stronghold, was surrounded by the English, and Charles,
having neither men or money to carry on the war, was on
the point of retiring to Dauphiuy, and leaving the city of
Orleans to its fate. At this critical period the scale was
suddenly turned. Jeanne d’Arc, under a strong presentiment
of her lofty calling, had persuaded two gentlemen of her
own province, whom she met at Vaucouleurs, to accompany
her to the presence of the king. Arriving in safety, after a
somewhat perilous journey, she was, after much delay, ad¬
mitted to the king’s palace, where she recognised the king
though plainly dressed, and purposely mingled with a crowd
of courtiers. We quote from Ecstatics of Geniua\ by the
late Mr. J. W. Jackson :—<£ Led apart by the king, she spoke
to him of secrets known only to himself and God. While
being^quipped with a suit of knight’s armour, she described
an old sword marked with five crosses, as lying amidst other
arms, in the church vault of St. Catherine at Pierbois.
It was found, an old neglected weapon, in the very place she
had described. Promising to lead a convoy into Orleans, she
succeeded, despite of apparently insurmountable obstacles.
Having declared she would raise the sieo-e of this important
town, she accomplished it in seven dayS) although three of
* A Thessalian sorceress,
f To their bodies, or near to their dead bodies.
| Hall,’Virtue, and Co., and Bailliere.
Dec. 15, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
231
them had, by her direction, been devoted to public prayer.
Prophesying that, she would be wounded near the breast on
the morrow, she received an arrow in the part indicated dur¬
ing an assault on the English works. Returning to the court,
then at Tours, she again read the king’s thoughts, together
with those of some of the principal commanders by whom
he was surrounded. Promising to conduct her sovereign to
Rheims for his coronation, she achieved this seeming im¬
possibility without even a battle. It would seem, that, after
this, her prophetic faculty was greatly diminished. She
had indeed accomplished her mission, and it was only at the
urgent request of the French Generals that she consented to
forego her avowed intention of retiring to a monastery. Her
sad fate, therefore, may be considered as the result of her
not obeying the dictates of that internal monitor under
whose support and guidance she had achieved such marvels.”
She had been successful in her former sallies ; but now hav¬
ing made a sortie from Compiegne, she was, as St. Ouen’s
Histoire de France shows:—“ Taken by the Burgundians
and ignominiously sold to the English. Jeanne d’Arc was
brought before a tribunal, at which several Frenchmen sat,
who were unworthy of that name. Spite of her sincere piety
and her pure faith, she was declared a heretic, and, as such,
condemned to perpetual imprisonment. Shortly afterwards,
the English condemned her as a relapsed heretic, and to die
by burning. Charles VII. did not even make an attempt to
save this woman who died for him.”
Bignold, in his History of England, tells us: “All France
believed that she was sent from God.” He might have
added : “ The English believed that in fighting against her
they had to contend with the devil.” How very “ English ”
that was; but, in this case, it made them a paradox; it
made them un-English; for they cowardly ran away from
far inferior forces. Here is the wondrous maiden’s own
account at her trial, given us by Mr. Jackson from MSS.
existing in the Royal Library at Paris : “ In my thirteenth
year I heard a voice in my father’s garden, at Domremy; I
heard it from the right side, near the church, and it was
accompanied by great brightness (odic light). At first I was
afraid of it, but I soon became aware that it was the voice
of an angel, who has ever since watched well over me, and
taught me to conduct myself with propriety and to attend
Church. Five years afterwards, while I was attending my
father’s flocks, this voice said to me: 4 God has great com¬
passion for the French nation, and that I ought to get
ready and go to its rescue.’ When I began to weep at this,
the voice said to me, ‘ Go to Vaucouleurs, and you will find
a captain there who will conduct you without hindrance to
the king.’ Since th^t time I have acted according to the
revelations I have received, and the apparitions I have seen,
and, even on my trial, I speak only according to that which
is revealed to me.”
The Spiritualist of September 10th, 1875, tells us that
“ When on the martyr-scaffold, with flames rising fiercely
around her, she lifted her head, exclaiming: “ The voices !
they are of God ! ”
Hr. Forbes Winslow tells us: “ The insanity of Joan of
Arc may be mentioned as a good example of superstitious
madness.”
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
BY EMILY KISLIKGBCRY AND C, CARTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI.
The most marked event during the autumn months in
Continental Spiritualism has been the Congress of Belgian
Spiritualists, which was held at Liege during the month of
September, and reports of which have appeared fortnightly
in the Messager up to the present date.
The Congress was attended by representatives from the
various associations forming the Belgian Federation, of
which the Socicte P Union Spirite et MagnPtique of Brussels
is the principal; and the meeting was opened by reading
the report of M. Charles Fritz, the secretary of that society.
From this report it appears that, although the knowledge of
the Spiritualist doctrine had spread considerably in Belgium
during the past year, there was great want of zeal among
the older workers in promoting federal union. As a laudable
exception the secretary cited the Spiritualists of Ostend,
who have formed a society and started a newspaper, De Rots,
which is printed in two languages, French and Flemish, and
has already a good circulation. As a sign of appreciation,
it was proposed that next year’s Congress be held at Ostend,
and at a season when there was likely to be a larger influx
of visitors than in the month of September.
The benefits of association were set forth at some length
in a paper by M. Mouls, who made much allusion to the
work of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The position of Spiritualism in Belgium was next discussed,
and Was chiefly taken up by the representatives from
Yerviers, who recounted the struggles and triumphs of a
society founded by working men, who have succeeded in
collecting a small library, by means of which they have
strengthened themselves and converted the brethren. Dr.
Dupuis gave an interesting account of the sittings, chiefly
of a religious character, held by the Ostend society, and a
paper was read, sent by M. Greslez, of Algeria, on the
necessity of religious services in connection with Spirit¬
ualism. This subject was warmly discussed by several
speakers, and the importance of the religious aspect of
Spiritualism strongly insisted upon, but no resolutions were
passed in reference to it.
The Revue Spirite fox December notes the remarks of a
French journal called HHomme Libre, to the effect that on
All Saint’s Day the tomb most visited and most decorated
in the cemetery of Pere Lachaise was the tomb of Allan
Kardec. The same journal relates how Buguet was caught
tricking, how Leymarie was condemned and imprisoned, and
how the Spiritualists still go on believing, and are the most
persistent {entries) of mankind.
Some Spiritualists at Lille have given in two successive
numbers of the Revue the results of a year’s stances with
two private mediums, designated as Madame X..and Madame
Y. Both ladies developed as trance and writing mediums,
and gave communications purporting to come from well-
known writers, whose characteristic styles were at times re¬
markably apparent. Occasionally the two ladies were both
influenced by historical personages, who held dialogues
together, grave or gay, as the case might be. These per¬
sonages often gave detailed and interesting accounts of their
experiences in spirit life, expressing in moving terms their
joy and sorrow, their pleasure or their regret. The tran¬
script of these scenes from the spirit-world would form an
interesting chapter in Spiritualist literature, and would be
altogether novel in character.
We also learn that there has been another action-at-law
against some Spiritualists at Le Mans, blit this time the
prosecutors were unsuccessful, even in appeal. The magis¬
trate could not condemn a man who had only prescribed
mesmerised water!
In a long and learned article on the Perisprit, M. Tonoeph
endeavours to prove that the action of the supposed spiritual
envelope is identical in certain respects with that attributed
by physiologists, in particular by M. Collongues, to the
nervous fluid. Other papers on similar subjects, by M.
Cochet and Mme. Dufaufe, complete the December number
of the Revue.
Psychic Studies is still occupied with the report of Pro¬
fessor Barrett’s paper at the British Association at Glasgow,
and with Mr. C.. Reimer’s Experiences of a German in
England. Further on, M. Aksakof, the proprietor and
editor of Psychic Studies, explains and justifies the position
of his journal towards the professors of Reincarnation. He
says that he is blamed on the one hand for not advocating
their doctrine, and on the other for not attacking it. He
enumerates, categorically the objects for which the journal
exists, which may be more or less summed up in its full
title, “ Devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly
known phenomena of soul (or psychic) life.” Under this
heading M. Aksakof does not consider that the various
speculations concerning the life of the spirit apart from the
body have a distinct place, although he grants that the fact
of the contradictory statements made by spirits in regard
thereto is a thing worthy of investigation, which will receive
attention in due time. Nevertheless the field of physical
phenomena is the field in which M. Aksakof elects for the
present to glean facts for presentation to the sceptical
readers of Psychic Studies.
Among the philosophical papers, to whieli a portion of
the journal is devoted every month, is oa^ on Phrenology,
232
THE SElElTUAliiST,
Dec. 15,1876.
by Alexander Holfers, of Berlin^ The “Short Notices” !
^•ive the latest news of the Slade case, and various extracts j
from The Spiritualist.
The Criteria Espirista (Madrid), as usual, takes the lead i
among the Spanish, periodicals. The article on “ Fraudulent |
Mediums,” by the Viscount Torres Solanot, is well worthy j
of perusal.' The news given is admirably compiled, and the |
digest of the Slade case is convenient and short. No j
trouble seems spared in this journal to place its readers j
thoroughly on a level with the state of the science through- j
out the world. The high tone of the articles herein renders !
the organ of the Spanish society worthy of admiration. |
The llustracion Espirita (Mexico), which is the leading j
Spiritist journal in that republic, contains a learned article j
by Don Santiago Sierra, on the minute dilfusion of spirit- j
particles in space, and on the. extension of the nebulae |
through the Milky Way. Adopting the theory of Struve, j
that the sun is 2,800 times smaller than Sirius, he considers !
it demonstrated that the true procession of our solar system |
is in the direction of the constellation Hercules, at the rate I
of seven kilometres and 600 metres per second. Senor I
Cordero’s article on “ Grod Humanised,” contains copious |
references to the Buddhist philosophy, and is couched from !
the freethinking standpoint. The account of the materiali- !
sation of Conchita in presence of Dr. Slade, is translated |
from The Spiritualist by Miss Flenebry. It is announced j
that a new Brazilian paper on \ Spiritualism, termed the I
Aurora, is now published at Silveras, in Brazil.
The Revista Espiritista (Monte Video) is, as usual, devoted I
entirely to the doctrines of the reincarnationists, and also j
contains controversial remarks on the place of the soul after I
death.
The Ley de Amor (Merida de Yucatan) contains an article I
on Woman, by the Peralta circle, of which it is the organ j ;
and much controversial matter respecting the religious i
aspect of Spiritualism. We are surprised that so small a !
town as Merida can support so interesting a little fortnightly, i
and are glad to see that the Ley de. Amor is now publishing j
supplements. j
The Pensamiento (Merida de Yucatan) contains some very i
strong political writing against the enemies of Spiritualism. [(
We cannot sympathise with a tone which would introduce |
vehement political diatribes against the governing party in a j j
state where revolution and bloodshed are weekly occurrences. ! <
Mexico has quite enough difficulties as it stands ; and jj
Spiritualism, which rests on scientific fact, can afford to pro- i j
pagate its doctrines without recourse to the petroleum-pot. ji
The to/ie of the Pensamiento is undignified and much h
too violent, and the journal is devoted to other subjects Ij
besides Spiritualism. ;!<
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES.
BY C. CARTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI.
On Thursday, the 7th inst., Mr. Eglinton being the
medium, a $^mc<?was held at 38, Great Russell-street, Lon¬
don, which was devoted, chiefly to the repetition of a very
successful experiment which some months ago took place.
The medium’s hands were. firmly sewn to his trousers’
knees, and placed outside the curtain in view of all the
company. After a short time, the voiced of “Joey” being
heard, hands were shewn at the aperture above the level of
the medium’s hands which were still in view, and a hand
was projected to a distance of more than eight inches from
the limits of the medium’s elbows; it moved the curtain
forcibly^ and subsequently rolled it up from the corner
towards Mr. Eglinton, showing nothing behind the curtain.
With permission I, who wras sitting at the corner of the
cabinet, to Mr. Eglinton’s left, placed my hand therein,
when it was clasped by an object resembling two fingers and
a thumbj the annulus and minimus fingers being absent.
The hand wns distinctly a right hand. The curtain being
again drawn towards the medium, I distinctly saw a whole
right hand lying transversely across Mr. Eglinton’s fore¬
arm; A lady then entered the cabinet and stated to me
that she saw a hand projected in an upward direction from
Mr. Eglinton’s knees. During the time that she was in the
cabinet, hands were several times freely projected from
the aperture.
At the second part of the seance Mr. Eglinton’s hands
were sewn behind his back to his coat. The “Oxford
chimes ” being placed on his knee, and a book placed on
them, the leaves of the book were often lifted, on one
occasion a hand being seen lifting the cover and leaves of
the book in front of the medium, and with the curtains
tightly drawn and pinned between his mouth and the book.
The stance shortly afterwards broke up, leaving upon the
minds of the visitors the conviction that the experiment
(previously shown through Mr. Eglinton’s mediumship)
of showing two visible and tangible hands, one being his
own and one being similar to his own, had been well and
exactly repeated.
“I was present at this seance, and testify to the correctness
of the above account.” Arthur A. May.
SPIRITUAL : PHENOMENA AMONG THE ANCIENT
EGYPTIANS.
To the Editor of the “ Banner of Light A
An American gentleman, an accomplished scholar, while
in Paris studying Egyptian, sent me the following account
and translation, which shows the practical view the ancients
took of Spiritualism. It may interest your readers as much
as it has—Yours truly, C. 0. Poole.
140, West 42nd-street, New York City.
“ The National Library in Paris has a sandstone tablet,
said to have come from Thebes, from the temple of the god
Khonsa, the second person of the Theban trinity. The illus¬
trations are the king offering incense to the ark of the god
Khonsa, borne on the shoulders of twelve priests, sandaled
for a journey, and a priest receiving a similar ark on its re¬
turn. The god is called the driver away of demons. The king
is Rameses XII., who flourished about 200 B.C.
“ The inscription, which is long, states that the Princess
of Bekhten (probably Ecbatana) being the younger sister
of Rameses XII.’s wife, Sun-of-the-Graces, and a malady
having penetrated her limbs, her father sent to the King of
Egypt for a doctor. Thoth-in-feast was sent, selected from
the college, and the mystery doctors of the palace. He
found her seized by a spirit, and he, himself, unable to fight
with him, the father sent to the king again. The king went
to Khonsa, and prevailed on him to have one of his forms
sent, first giving this form his divine virtue four times (a
figure four times repeated resembling as much as anything
an old-fashioned S, with a long loop above and one below).
This sign comes as near mesmerism as anything; it repre¬
sents the spine ; guardian gods exert it upon kings and other
respectable people. After a year and five months travelling,
with one large and five little arks, a chariot and many horse¬
men, this god arrives; the father goes out with nobles and
soldiers to meet him, and falls even on his face with appro¬
priate speech. This god goes to the princess, exercises the
power according to this form for her, and in a moment she
is well.
“ Then this spirit” (the characters indicate that he is
glorified or illuminated and august, holding in his hand the
whip of rule), “ who had been with her, saith before Khonsa,
i Thou hast come in peace, great god, who drivest out the
demon (or diakka). Thine is the land of Bekhten, thy
slaves its men; 1 am thy slave, I will go to the place
whence I came to set thy heart at rest as to thy coming to
her. Will thy holiness order a feast day to me from the
Prince of Bekhten ?* Then the god deigned to say to his
prophet, ‘ Let the Prince of Bekhten make a great offering
before this spirit.’ While Khonsa was doing these things
with the spirit, the Prince of Bekhten stood wfith his
11 soldiers, terrified exceedingly. Then the Prince bf Bekhten
imade a great offering before Khonsa and the spirit—-made a
i feast day for them. And the spirit went in peace whither¬
soever he pleased, by the order of Khonsa.'
“ The Prince thought first he would keep so useful a god,
j but after three years and three months, seeing him in a
dream coming out of his shrine as a hawk of gold, and
| flying away into Egypt, he thought better of it, and sent
i him back with many presents, troops and horsemen.
“ In the British Museum is a large stone tablet with
\ thirty-six lines of hieroglyphics, one side broken off two-
Dec. 15, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
233
thirds of the way down. These are mainly invocations to j j
divinities or genii, that the departed one may be preserved m
from all sorts of malevolent things in that under sphere j |
which is so well described and depicted in The Book of the j)j
Bead and on the better sarcophagi, as to remind one of j 1
Dante with Dore’s illustrations. At the twenty-third of U|
these lines begins an invocation to a sacred ‘Lamb, son of m
a ram, who art sucking thy mother sheep, let not the de- js!
parted be stung by any serpent, any serpentess, any scorpion, m
any reptile ; let not any one of them master his limbs; let |;|
not any death, any deathess enter into him; let not haunt |s
him the shadow of any spirit.’ . . j||
“ The dead Egyptian either rose again, like the sun, or ;
he was struck with the second death (compare Rev. ii. 11), ju
according to The Booh, of the Deadr after which he was m
called a death, or a dead spirit. The Booh of the Dead has m
prayers to prevent this second death. Although these deaths ! j
suffer flame, tortures, and their bodies are pastures for j/j
demons, yet they may enter the bodies of others. There are | |
prayers against this in The Book of the Dead, and else- ||1
where.
u On the twenty-sixth line of this tablet we read : * Oh is
thou who enterest, enter thou not into the limbs of the Kj
departed; and in the thirty-first, ‘Let not haunt him the j j
influence of any death or deathness.’ These amiable com- j }
panions are also mentioned in the incantation on the first page S j
of the Papyras Ebers. In line thirty-second of this tablet is q
an exorcism: ‘I have repeated the words over the sacred |)|
herbs put in all the corners of the house. I have sprinkled jt
the whole house with the juice of these herbs during the j i
night; when comes the dawn the person buried is in his . m
place.’ This is the way we now protect a house against ju
spirits. Last spring, in Florence, a priest came to the house j)j
and sprinkled it with holy water, ‘ repeating words,’ and so m
laying the ghosts.”
-' jit ;-usle * - ' ‘ • . 'll
THE RELATION OF SPIRITUALISM TO IDEALISM.
BV t)K. FRANZ HOFFMANN1, PROFESSOR OF PHILOSOPHY AT WURZBURG j\j
UNIVERSITY.
Ti unstated.from “Psychic Studies” (Leipsic), hif Emily Kislinghury.
Viewed from a philosophical standpoint, Spiritualism jjj
may be described as that system which acknowledges God j>
as the Absolute Spirit, for if God be not thus acknowledged, ju
neither can individual spirits, subject to recognisable con- ij
ditions, be logically accepted. Spirit would be no more )
than a name, answering to no special individuality, if men k
were to be conceived of as the varying phenomenon of a hj
single unconscious Absolute, or as the effect or resultant of hi
matter in its most complicated combination of atoms. Ex- j j
perimental Spiritualism has for its, aim the possible P
demonstration of .philosophic Spiritualism, and is striving j>|
to verify it by experimental proofs. Idealism has its seat, its ]u
foundatjton, and its verity only in philosophical Spiritualism, Im
without which it is but half-truth; or, followed to its depths, m
but an illusion, which finally resolves itself into an indirect \)\
naturalism. We call indirect, veiled, tending to the natural- P
istic, every system which denies the self-conscious spirituality |)
of the Absolute ; for a Spirituality which is not self-conscious |
is. a nullity, and all that is not conscious of its own existence j j
returns to the first elements, whether it be an unconscious jj
idea, or an unconscious entity. This reproach does not apply, jji
as may be well understood, to what is called personal )j
pantheism, which in reality deserves the name of simple jjj
pantheism, and which (as in Schelling, Fechner, Lotze) does kj
not preclude the immortality of the individual; but it does j)j
apply to the teachings of Spinoza, J. G. Fichte, Schelling’s )|
earlier period, to Hegel and Schopenhauer. All these be- jjj
tray, not excepting even J. G. Fichte, an insidious, covert, j)j
indirect naturalism, and these have prepared the way, in jji
various degrees, to the revival of materialism. Hartmann’s jjj
Philosophy of the Unknown is equally immersed in the fogs j j
of naturalism. For his Absolute Being remains, notwith- jjj
standing the fabulous insight ascribed to it, unconscious and jjj
blind; doubly blind, inasmuch as he divides his Absolute jjj
blindness between an unconscious Logos and a fatuous will, hj
Therefore, when Hartmann, in the preface to the seventh i j
edition of his Philosophy of the Unknown, constitutes himself jjj
the representative of German Idealism, he can only be so on [{I
behalf of the so-called Pantheists, whose creed is an un¬
acknowledged naturalism, certainly not of genuine
Idealism, which can only have its foundation in
true Spiritualism. Moreover, Germany is not indebted for
its greatness, as Hartmann asserts, to the so-called idealism
of the Pantheists, for it was a great nation long before they
existed; but it is indebted to them for its cosmopolitan,
philosophical depth of thought and character, whereby it
was able to absorb and to maintain Christianity in all its
purity, or, where this failed, to restore it. Those who cannot
conceive of or acknowledge the divine nature in Christ—which
shines forth in spite of Baader’s saying that, however great
may have been the interior blending of the divine and
human in Him, yet God never became man, neither did
man become God — those same thinkers must always
acknowledge Christ as incomparably the greatest religious
genius in the history of the world and of humanity. Hart¬
mann, however, is so confused by the mass of his theological
learning, that he pretends, in defiance of all history, to
degrade Christ to the level of a Jewish Rabbi. His work
on Christianity, the weakest of all his writings, will soon
dispel the illusions by which some have been led to believe
in the importance of his philosophy.
How can the German mind be satisfied by a pretended
idealism which robs the Deity, so to speak, of a seeing eye,
which represents the universe as the outcome of a blind and
fatuous will, deprives man of free will, lets him die like the
the beasts of the field, and holds out universal suicide as the
end of his progressive culture ?
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
CONVERSAZIONE—THE SLADE PROSECUTION—SCIENTIFIC BIGOTRY AND DOG¬
MATISM—THE MISSES FOX.
On Wednesday evening, last week, the usual monthly conversazione of the
British National Association of Spiritualists was held at 28, GreatRussell-
street, London, W.C. There was, as usual, a large attendance, making
a heavy demand upon all the resources of the establishment. If these
soirees continue to increase in popularity as they have done in the past,
the question of taking a hall for such meetings will soon have to be
entertained. The system of having very little public speaking at these
gatherings is found to work well, since the social element is thereby
encouraged, and facilities given to those Spiritualists who do not often
meet each other to talk over questions of interest.
At eight o’clock the friends present assembled in the library, and
Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, expressed his regret at the absence of Mrs. Kane, who had been
kept at home by illness. He added that he had just received from
Messrs. Colby and Rich, of Boston, the sum of £264, the first instal¬
ment of the amount subscribed by American Spiritualists for the defence
of Dr. Slade. He further remarked that if they required any testimony
as to the estimation in which Dr. Slade was held by those who knew
him, the simple fact of this sum having been sent, and more promised,
was evidence of the light in which he was regarded in America.
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., said that it was not easy to rise to speak
of the absence of Mrs. Jencken and Mrs. Kane; the latter was in the
hands of her dentist, and was quite unable to move. He had just re¬
ceived a letter from Mr. Serjeant Cox, who informed him that a com¬
mittee of the Psychological Society had held a seance with Dr. Slade
under the strictest test conditions, and that the phenomena of direct
writing had been repeated before them no less than seven times. He
believed that it was the intention of Mrs. Kane to remain in London.
He had consulted Mr. Patteson—one of the best authorities of the day
—upon the provisions of the Vagrancy Act, and he had told him that
the Act did not apply to mediumship, consequently he thought there was
no doubt that when the Slade case was carried before a higher Court, it
would be decided that the Act was irrelevant. It was astonishing that
the angry feeling against Spiritualism had not been exhibited by Church
people or by the Dissenting body, but by materialists and scientific men;
in fact, by the very men who some time since were not allowed to give
evidence in a court of law because their oaths could not be taken.
These people were growing angry because others believed in ghosts. He
believed that ghosts did appear, and that it was a very wonderful fact;
but if it were not true, why should he not have his amusement just as
materialists had theirs in the opinion that nothingness followed death?
(Applause.)
Mr. Calder said that Mrs. Woodforde had asked him to announce that
Dr. Monck would give a seance at her house on the 12th December, and
that the proceeds would be given towards his defence fund.
The proceedings then closed.
The usual fortnightly meeting of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists will be held on Monday evening next, at 7.30, when a paper will
bo read by Miss Kislingbury on “ Form Manifestations.”
Mr. J. M. Peebles is about to make another tour round the world,
to observe the progress of Spiritualism in various countries. He would
do well to personally observe some of the spiritual phenomena which
are so prevalent among savages, and to which ordinary travellers are
too uninformed to give attention.
234
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 15, 1876.
DR. SLADE AT MANCHESTER.
BY CHARLES BLACKBURN.
I was favoured with an unexpected flying visit, on Satur¬
day evening last, from Dr. Slade, who came merely to spend
a'Sunday away from London and return, which he did on
the Monday; therefore, he did not come/or seance purposes
at all.
During the evening of his arrival a few of my usual
visitors1 came and played billiards; then we had several
sittings with Slade; all were disbelievers. The power was
very weak ; nothing but short sentences in answer to ques¬
tions; ho chair lifted, or bell dashed about, but merely
faintly disturbed—all owing to travelling and the unsettled
anxiety of all the sceptics to find out some trick, but none
was discovered. The company said that what writing was
done was inexplicable, but they would not own it was
<f spiritual power.” 1*. Very well,” said Slade, “call it what
you like; but I don’t do it. Many times I have no power
Whatever, and visitors have to come again another day; at
other times my system becomes fully charged with some
power which the spirits use to write with, or disturb objects ;
they will smash a slate sometimes into a thousand pieces
entirely against my will; and in further proof that I don't
do it, they sometimes write in French, or German, or Latin,
or Greek, not one sentence of which did I ever know in my
life.” •
The company all came to the conclusion that Drs. Lan-
kester and Donkin are off their horse altogether, for what
they had just witnessed was different entirely from Lankester
and Donkin’s representations. One gentleman had his
handkerchief snatched from his lap whilst “Slade” wras
holding a slate with one hand and I held his other on the
table; the handkerchief suddenly appeared on my knee
with two large knots upon it, and Slade’s feet in view all
the time.
Parkfiold, Didsbury, near Manchester, Dec. fl th, 1876.
EXPERIENCES WITH DR. SLADE.
BY THE REV. JOHN PAGE HOPPS, EDITOR OP “ THE TRUTHSEEKER.”
I had heard of Dr. Slade some years before his arrival in
England; and what I had heard led me to think that he was
one of the persons in whose presence occurred some of
those so-called Spiritual phenomena to the reality of which
hundreds of thousands in all parts of the world, in spite of
ridicule, hate, and spite, are ready to bear testimony. The
trial partly confirmed me in this opinion. Dr. Lankester
appeared to me to have played the part of an energetic but
hasty and thoroughly prejudiced man, who went to demon¬
strate a theory, and did it, in his own rough-and-tumble
fashion. I also read with great interest the deliberate and
circumstantial evidence given by Dr. Wyld, Mr. Hutton,
editor of the Spectator) Serjeant Cox, A. R. Wallace, and
Algernon Joy, all of whom testified to wonderful experiences,
which the magistrate himself pronounced to be overwhelm¬
ing, only he could not take them into account. I had heard,
also, of the experiences of Professor Barrett and others, all
pointing the same way. In the end I thought it worth
my while, as a seeker after truth, and as one who does not
think he knows everything, to go and see for myself. I did
this with all the more interest, because of the starting of
the monstrous theory that “'medium ” and impostor neces¬
sarily. meant the same thing, a theory that could only
co-exist with the grossest ignorance as to what is going on
around us.
I was shown into a plainly-furnished sitting-room, in the
centre of which stood an old, light mahogany table, very
simply constructed, and certainly not constructed for Dr.
Slade, who looked quite juvenile by the side of it when he
turned the old thing upside down, to let me see there
was neither drawer, nor wire, nor any one concealed beneath
it. We immediately sat down almost* side by side. A
framed slate lay on the table, with a tiny bit of pencil on it;
this, after we had joined hands for a minute or two, was taken
and held by Dr. Slade’s right hand just under the
table. After a few seconds of nervous shaking, it
was closely pressed to the part of the table nearest
to me, with half-an-inch of the frame visible; his
ijj left hand being on my hands the . whole time on the top
'll of the table. He asked, “Can you write for us?”
m I immediately heard the sound of writing, the slate being
Ij! quite close to me: when the sound ceased the slate was
| | slowly withdrawn, and on it we found the words: “ We will
i{| do all we can.” The pencil lay at the end of the last word,
| | with its end pointing to the last letter. The slate was again
|p put under the table, and the question was asked by Dr. Slade
11! whether they would fill the slate. The writing sounds came
| | at once, and the result was seen to be, “ We will do so soon.”
iThe pencil again lay at the end of the last letter. The slate
was again put under, and then for about three minutes I
heard writing. When the sounds ceased, the slate was
|. carefully withdrawn (in this, as in every case, flat as it had
lain during the writing). The slate was completely filled
with the following “message” addressed, I presume, to me:
Dear Sir,—God’s will be done on earth, as it is done in heaven:
| \ I that the Christ principle of doing good be inculcated as the only saving
fj efficacy from selfishness, discord, and error ; not simply to be investi-
j|l gated, but unfolded; not to be obtained by formal rites, but, because
i j! originally implanted, must necessarily be developed in the everlasting
I life of man, and it only remains for man to place himself under the
| conditions of harmony to become receptive to the wide-spreading volume
I of God’s universal welcome.—A. W. Slade.
It may be said that this slate was written already, and
adroitly changed ; but further on it will be seen that I got,
without waiting, a similar slate-full on my own marked
slate, only produced by me just before the writing occurred.
I had heard of suspicious delays, movements, and noises,
elaborate breaking of pencil, throat sounds, and the like. I
was astonished at the ease, simplicity, and quiet of the
whole thing. I had heard of the slate being detained on
I Dr. Slade’s knees, or disappearing. More than once I saw
|» it at once put under the table, with its top pressed close
| l under the top of the table, and one side of the frame well
j i seen the whole time. I had heard of the writing being done
| I before the slate went into position; I, on each occasion that
||| the writing was produced, heard all the sounds of writing on
| | a slate I had seen was blank. I had heard of the slates
I | being changed; I can only say that, after the sounds of
| writing were heard by me, the slate was very slowly with-
i j drawn, and, in each case, the pencil lay precisely at the end
j! of the last word. I had heard of the writing being done by
j|! Dr. Slade’s finger, armed with a tiny grain of pencil, but
K| one of his hands lay on mine upon the table, while part of
jj the other, holding the slate, was in view the whole time,
m and it never stirred during the writing which I heard, and
I j which on one occasion covered the whole of a moderate-sized
I | slate. I had heard of sympathetic ink and the like; the
I j slate we used was a new one, perfectly grey ; the pencil was
i | a soft slate pencil, and the whole of the writing, which I
ijj examined, was composed of dry pencil dust. I had heard of
| | doubts whether the writing was done on the top or the under
Ijj side of the slate ; in my case I.am certain the writing was
| | done on the side between the slate and the table. On one
m or two occasions Dr. Slade quietly half withdrew the slate
| | from beneath the table to let me see that it was blank, and
jj| as quietly put it back without altering its parallel; the
|)j sound of writing was then heard; the slate was slowly
I I withdrawn directly it ceased, and the writing was visible,
i I Other “ phenomena” occurred of a ver}r curious character,
I j but my mind is not made up respecting them.
Two days after, I saw Dr. Slade again. On this occasion
jj| I took two new framed slates, which I marked. I particularly
I I asked whether it was not possible to get writing without
||j putting the slate under the table, and was told that it was
j j quite possible. My two slates were then laid upon the table
n I with a tiny bit of pencil between; and upon them in the
1)1 full daylight we laid our four hands. I then distinctly heard
jjj the sound of writing, and, on lifting up the top slate, found
m these words written, but very badly :—“ We cannot give you
j j a communication, only a proof of our power.” *1 remarked
ijj that, though one or two words (the word “ communication ”
•| I for instance) were very badly written, Dr. Slade at Once read
1)1 them. On m'y way from Dr. Slade’s this slate got broken
ijj to splinters—how I know not; so I returned the next day to
I I try another, again taking two marked framed slates. A
j j first “ message ” procured under the table as on the first day,
jjj. but with more agitatipn of the hand, told me that “ they
Beg. 15, 1876.
THE SPlElTUALiSf,
235
had broken my slate because they wanted to give me more ! |(|
Anyhow, the result was remarkable. My first slate, held j?j
by Dr. Slade, was somehow smashed to atoms^—only about \)\
two inches remaining in one corner of it. The second I laid Kj
on the top of the table, a bit of pencil was put under it, and ijj
our hands were then put on or near it. The writing was m
then heard, and in about three minutes ceased, when, on lift- Kj
ing the slate, this “message” was found, well written, in j>]
regular lines, and covering the slate:— ;m
The spirit of truth, which Jesus prophesied would come in these Kj
days of the age of war and force is that undivided fraternising spirit }S j
of all love and goodness that unites the redeemed souls on earth and ') j
in heaven into one grand brotherhood of God—to open the way for the j(j
coming of this spirit has been the work of mediums—now may they jVI
have the strength given them to go on with the good work. i)j
A. W. Slade. Kj
I have the slate in my study now. It has on it my jh
private mark. • ;1i
I draw no conclusion; I only record my experiences for Kj
what they are worth. I found Dr. Sla$e a quiet, sensitive, jh
simple-hearted, gentlemanly man, and, with every oppor- |)|
tunity for discovering tricks, found only what I say. Life !sj
is full of mystery, romance, and surprise; and Dr. Slade jhj
may be all that Dr. Lankester believes him to be. For my j) [
own part, I am not ashamed to add my testimony to that K|
already on record—that it is at least as likely that Dr. Slade j) j
is one of that great army of genuine u mediums,” some of jj j
whom may be ignorant, vulgar, silly, or immoral, but all of j(j
whom serve as vehicles for the transmission of energy and |) j
intelligence from the unseen to the seen. K|
WANTON AGGRESSIVE ACTION AGAINST SPIRITUALISM, j !
Among the attacks upon Spiritualism some have been j) j
wanton and unprovoked, made by people who evidently rely j j
upon! coarse force, and care little whether they are right .jH
or wrong in the matter, so long as they have a good mob at jj!
their heels, and can override truth by popular prejudice. KKj
Argument with such people is merely waste of words : they jjj
will give no attention to it, and will drown all truthful m
utterances with the noise of popular clamour, just as Priestley > | c |
was mobbed after his sinful discovery of oxygen for his he- j||
terodoxy. Had he argued with his opponents, he would j(|
merely have broken his lungs, and given them infinite plea- jn
sure thereat. Logic and scientific experimental demonstration m
having no influence under such circumstances, it is useless • jjj
to waste energy by appealing to the same, consequently the 1 |
most efficacious and economical defensive mode of pro- jjj
ceeding is to quietly and without contention sow broadcast m
all over the land instructions how to form spirit circles at j)!
home, so that while the proportion of mountebanks among jjj
those who guide public opinion are informing their intelli- j j
gent hearers that the phenomena have no reality, many of i)j
the people thus imposed upon will be witnessing the facts j j
night after night in their own homes. They will thus be Kj
freed from the dominion of the trusted authorities who have jjj
betrayed them, and the reputations of their doubtful guides jjj
will be gone for ever. To hasten the arrival of the in- j(j
evitable day of retribution, we have had cheap cir- m
culars printed, which are now being distributed in jjj
thousands all over the country, and contain instructions j j
how to form spirit circles at home; they also contain other jjj
useful information. Although Spiritualism has not been jjj
distinguished by any proselytising action worth the name, jjj
because it spreads without effort in consequence of being jjj
founded upon the eternal and reproducible facts of Nature jjj
and Nature’s God, yet the attacks upon it by the uninformed jjj
render the expenditure of a little energy desirable at the jjj
present juncture. Instructions how to obtain the phenomena jjj
at home, with no Spiritualist present, might now be ad¬
vertised with advantage in every newspaper throughout the jjj
land. Everything depends upon the efforts of each indivi- jjj
dual Spiritualist, and not upon organised action ; if all do jjj
nothing, the knowledge diffused will be limited ; but if y
every Spiritualist takes personal care that by advertisement, jjj
placards, leaflets, or otherwise, information how to form jjj
spirit circles at home shall reach everybody residing within jjj
two miles of his particular house, shoals of people will test jjj
the reality of the facts for themselves within two or three jjj
weeks from this date, and see for themselves the most jjj
marvellous phenomena of modern times, declared by the
extra-wise ones of the earth never to occur. Information
may be most cheaply diffused by means of placards and
leaflets, and we are quite willing to print an unlimited
quantity giving the desired information, and to insert at the
foot of each of them, the addresses of any local spiritual
societies who may desire to display the bills in their respec¬
tive districts. If every Spiritualist takes care that all
persons residing within two miles of his own house shall
within the next few weeks receive instructions how to form
circles at home, hundreds of new mediums will spring up
at once all over the country, and by the publicity gained by
earnest, persevering individual action, the total number of
Spiritualists in Great Britain will be trebled in a few weeks.
SLADE WRITINGS.
Mrs. L. Andrews, of Springfield, U.S., in a letter dated
November 9th, 1876, printed in The Springfield Republican,
says :—
u When I was in New York, last summer, boarding in
the same house with the medium, I took up into my bed¬
room a double slate, and having written within it a few
lines, and placed a bit of pencil inside, I screwed it tightly
together. This slate I myself carried down-stairs, and placed
upon the top of the table, at which a relation of ,mine, with
the medium, were seated. Dr. Slade’s hands were, upon
mine, and did not touch the slate. Under these conditions,
we heard the writing as it was being done, and, taking the
slate up to my room, without opening it in the presence of
Dr. Slade, I unscrewed it, and found one of the inner sides
nearly filled with writing, in reply to what I had written on
the other. Mr. Robert Dale Owen once carried to Dr. Slade
a locked slate, the key of which never left his pocket till the
seance was concluded, when, unlocking it himself, he found
communications written inside in two languages, both un¬
known to the medium. I could, if necessary, get testimony
to facts like these from many whose word is worth as much
as that of any witness who could be called to testify to any
fact whatsoever; men whose disinterestedness, intelligence,
and honesty, are unquestionable. I have myself not only
heard, but seen the writing done, by a small hand which
held in its delicate'white fingers a pencil—this hand being
detached from any visible arm or body, and quite out of
reach of the medium, who had to lean over in order to catch
a momentary glimpse of it, as the slate was held by ine on
my i .lap. Dr. Eugene Crowell, of Brooklyn (author of
Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism), after giving
me an account of his experiences in seances with Slade (of
which he has had nearly two hundred), held both at the
rooms of the medium and at his own house, says : 4 In addi¬
tion to. this, I atone time placed the slate upon the table,
and, after sittting perhaps a minute, and while the writing
was progressing,. Dr. Slade arose from his chair, passed
around and beyond the table, and seated himself four feet
from it, the writing continuing without interruption. In
this instance, at my request, he held up both hands during
the time of the writing.’ In conclusion, I would only say of
Dr. Slade that, although among strangers, and by no means
a wealthy man (as he is called by those who know as little
of his private affairs as they do of his character or his
mediumship), he has found in London, among persons of the
highest respectability, warm friends, some of whom are
not Spiritualists, but only fair-minded men, who desire, if
possible, to see justice done, even to a medium.”
Mk. J. J. Morse in Lancashire.—On Sunday last Mr. Morse
delivered two trance addresses in the Temperance Hall, Oldham. The
one in the afternoon was upon “ Immortality, its Evidences,” while the
subject of the evening lecture was “Immortality—What is it?” The
audiences were large at each lecture, and the addresses were well
received. On Tuesday and Thursday Mr. Morse delivered trance lec¬
tures in the Mechanics’ Hall, Werneth, and in the Cp-operative Hall,
Greenacre-hill, each in outer districts of the above town. On Saturday
(to-morrow) Mr. Morse will deliver a trance address in the Town Hall,
New Mills, Derbyshire; and on Sunday next, the 17th inst., Mr. Morse
will give addresses, at 3 p.m., and 6.30 p.m„ in the Temperance Hall,
Grosvenor-street, All Saints’, Manchester.
THE SPIBITUAIilST,
236
' THE HEYIVAL OE ANTIQUATED THEORIES.
Dr. Carpenter seems to have given an amusing lecture on Spirit¬
ualism at the London Institution on Thursday night, in which he went
over all the old sources of fallacy as to the so-called spiritualistic phe¬
nomena, and pointed out very skilfully the kind of tests which should
he applied before these d priori improbable facts are accepted as true ;
but he did not deal—he seldom does—with the remarkable mass of evi¬
dence showing that unless individual men of great eminence and
ability and high character have been repeatedly deluded, these tests
have been scrupulously applied. As one instance, there is the case of
the late Professor De Morgan. Dr. Carpenter shows—very truly—how
cheating mediums catch the eye or voice of the investigator lingering on
the letter at which a rap is expected, and give the rap accordingly; and
he has often laid down very wisely that in investigating such phenomena
the medium should never be allowed to see the alphabet used, or the
hand of the investigator, and he has told how in this way he has foiled
conjurors. We, too, could tell the same story, and show the same
results. But the late Professor de Morgan carefully applied this very
test. He not only screened off the alphabet and his hand from the view
of|the medium (Mrs. Hayden), but he asked for the initial letters, and
the initial letters only, in the words of a particular sentence in his mind,
so that there might be no clue of spelling or of meaning to the letters in
question, and he recorded how completely successful this test was in
proving that the rapping agency, whatever it was, was independent of the
medium’s knowledge. Mr. Wallace records a different test, in which the
raps indicated the letters from last to first instead of from first to last,
so that he himself thought the thing a failure till all had been given.
Is it well to deal only with [the easily-explained cases of delusion or
fraud—of course fraud will account for nine-tenths of all we hear of
now-a-days, and never with the carefully-tested evidence of such men as
the late Mr. De Morgan?—The Spectator.
THE “IMPOSITION” ARGUMENT.
Some long and thoughtful articles, giving much information about
Spiritualism, have been published in The Hexham Courant, a journal
which circulates in Northumberland. The following is a quotation:—
“ There have been many impostors in connection with Spiritualism,
so that, granting that there is a raison d'Strefor spiritual interferences,
we cannot thatbelieve any real ones have occurred. The mediums find it
pay, they pursue it as a trade.
The fallacy of the above argument will appear at once if we read it
thus. There have been so many impostors in connection with
Christianity, so that, granting that there was a raison d'etre for Christian
spiritual interferences, we cannot believe that any real ones have
occurred. Simon Magus, and Apollonius of Tyana, and many others,
have been proved to have been impostors. These apostles found
Christianity pay, they pursued it as a trade, and so do many modern
priests. This we take to be a sufficient answer to the following sentence
by a worthy Newcastle editor. “ Numberless exposures of this de¬
scription have occurred, some in our own neighbourhood and some at a
distance, and even in America, the stronghold of Spiritualism.” Again,
we thus find Christians knocking down their own props. We now
quote from Whately’s evidences: “And so it came to pass, for in the last
siege of Jerusalem many impostors came forward, each one proclaiming
to be the Christ, and drawing multitudes to follow him, and leading
them to make the most desperate resistance to the Romans, till at
length the city was taken, and the nation utterly overthrown.” Query :
Was there no-true Christ ? An old Roman would therefore have been
justified in reading the above sentence of our Newcastle editor thus :
Some in our own neighbourhood, and some at a distance, and even in
Jerusalem, the stronghold of Christianity, have been shown to be
impostors.'
“ We cannot believe in Spiritualism. Spirits, if they came, woidd
never move tables and chairs about, ring bells, play tambourines, blow
trumpets, write on slates, or perform any of those pretended physical
manifestations we read or hear of."
Well, my dear objector, and how would you manifest your existence
to any friend of yours who could not see you ? If you were locked up
in a room, with a friend in the next room, would you not use the
ridiculous “ rap ” to attract his attention ? Or would you shout ? And
what have doors got knockers for ? That one embodied spirit without
may tell another embodied spirit within that he wants letting in. And
why does one dear male spirit in Hexham write to another dear female
spirit in Newcastle or in Gateshead, to tell her he loves her, and why
does he write so much nonsense ? And why is it more ridiculous for a
spirit to move a chair or a table about than for you who are a spirit?
Do you say a spirit with a difference, with a body? Granted; then
how does your spirit move your body about? The relation between
them is just the same, though more intimate, if Butler’s illustrations in
his immortal “ Analogy ” are to be trusted. You have justNgotafew
d priori notions as to what ought to be, when the duty of every sensible
opponent is to inquire, first, what is the fact? You would impose laws
upon nature, would you, instead of letting nature impose her laws and
her facts upon you ! You, an inquirer, who would reject everything that
does not square with your notions, or suit your ideas of fitness and of
propriety ! You should have been at the right hand of the Almighty to
counsel Him when He made the universe!
“Go, teach eternal wisdom how to rule,
Then drop into thyself, and be a fool.”—Pope.
If you had lived in Christ’s time you would, in just a similar way,
have said, “ This man eateth with publicans and sinners.” But one
who believes his Bible has no right to object to physical manifestations,
Dec. 15* 1876.,
v however apparently absurd, when he compares the modern manifestations
(j with the ancient ones. A few quotations will make this clear. “And
\i the Lord opened the mouth of the ass, and she said unto Balaam, what
| have I done unto thee that thou hast smitten me these three times.”
l\ (Numbers chap. xxii. v. 28.) “ And the Lord sent fiery serpents among
(j the people, and they bit the people: and much people of Israel died.”
H (Numbers, chap. xxi. v. 6.) “ And it came to pass, that on the morrow
(j Moses went into the tabernacle of witness; and, behold, the rod of
| Aaron for the house of Levi was budded, and brought forth buds, and
(j bloomed blossoms, and yielded almonds.” (Numbers, chap. xvii. v. 8.)
(| “And the spirit of God came upon Saul when he had heard those
j tidings, and his anger was kindled greatly. And he took a yoke of
oxen, and hewed them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the coasts
\| of Israel by the hands of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not
) i forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen.
11 And the fear of the Lord fell on the people, and they came out with one
jl consent.” , (1 Samuel, chap. xi. v. 6, 7.) “And God wrought special
/
\
miracles by the hands of Paul: so that from his body were brought unto
the sick handkerchiefs or aprons, and the diseases departed from them,
and the evil spirits went out of them.” (Acts, chap. xix. v. 11, 12.) To
quote at length all such cases would take up too much space, so we will
simply give a few references for any investigator to examine. Gen.,
chap. xx. v. 17, 18; Gen., chap. xvii.; Judges, chap. xv. v. 14, 15;
Exodus, chap. xxxi. v. 18; Matt., chap, xxvii. v. 52, 53 ; Judges, chap,
xv. v. 19; 1 Kings, chap. xvii. v. 5 ; Daniel, chap. v. v. 5; Daniel,
chap. x. v. 10; Daniel, chap. x. v. 16, 18; Ezekiel, chap. viii. v. 3.
There are scores of other similar cases of physical manifestations, for
many of which it would be very difficult for even the editor of the
Newcastle Daily Journal to give any rational raison d'etre.
| MR. A. R. WALLACE ON PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
y. Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, in a letter to the Daily News of last
)j Monday, says :—
(I “In your article on this subject you appear to have been led into an
11 error by Dr. Carpenter’s constant habit of giving only one side of the
i question, and completely ignoring all facts which tell against his theory,
i You say, speaking of Reichenbach, ‘But he did not try secretly re-
j moving the magnets, and then asking the sensitives whether they still
(j saw the flames.’ Now, everyone who has read Reichenbach’s book
j must know that tests of this kind were applied by him again and
)! again, in an endless variety of ways. The magnets were continually
(j changed in number, size, and position, in the totally dark chamber,
I and more than this, the magnet was sometimes completely hidden by a
| i screen, but a lens was so placed as to throw the image of it (had there
(i been light) on the wall. In every case, the sensitives described the
j flames from the magnet as small or large, single, double, or treble, high
(i or low, to the right or to the left, just as the magnets were changed ;
(! and when the lens was used they described the flame on the wall, and
(j were then asked to place their finger on it, when Reichenbach marked
/] the place with a pencil, and found afterwards that the mark was
(j exactly where the image would be thrown by the lens. Now, the
)j negative fact, that in some cases mesmeric patients can be made to see
11 anything by ‘ expectation,’does not disprove these cases in which all
jl expectation was carefully excluded. Again, as to mesmerism at a dis-
j tance unknown to the patient, Dr. Carpenter gives cases in which this
failed, and in which the patient was mesmerised merely by the expecta-
j tion of being so. This is one side—the negative side—of the question^
(j But Dr. Carpenter knows that there is a positive side, which he ignores,
(i of cases in which mesmerism has been produced when the patient did
| not and could not know he was being mesmerised. One of these
| is given in Professor Gregory’s Letters on Animal Magnetism, page 107,
(i which happened in his own house to a member of his own family ;
ji aud, to show the kind of evidence that Dr. Carpenter carefully omits
i to allude to, I hope you will allow me space briefly to state the facts,
yj In Professor Gregory’s house one evening this lady was mesmerised by
>! a Mr. Lewis. Next morning at breakfast the lady complained of a
/ j headache. After his lecture Professor Gregory met Mr. Lewis, and told
(| him that the lady he had mesmerised had a bad headache, to which Mr.
/1 Lewis replied that he would think of it some time during the day and
(i mesmerise her so as to remove the headache. Professor Gregory did
): not return home till five o’clock, when, without being asked, the lady
/1 at once said to him that she had been mesmerised while nobody was
(i present, and while playing the piano, at half-past three o’clock. Her
H arms lost their power, and she was obliged to lie .down and go into a
)\ short mesmeric sleep, and when she awoke her headache was gone. In
(i the evening Professor Gregory met Mr. Lewis again, and was told that
); he had mesmerised the lady, as promised, as soon as he could get home
(j to his lodgings, which was about half-past three. The distance between
(| the two houses was about a third of a mile, and the whole of the
)j circumstances were such as to render ‘ expectation ’ out of the question.
(i Dr. Carpenter continually compares the evidence for the facts of clair-
j[ voyance and Spiritualism with that for the facts of science, to the dis-
i advantage of the former. May I ask if it is the ‘scientific’ method of
(j inquiry to ignore facts which tell against you, and, while making much
j of negative evidence in your favour, to lead the public to suppose that
)j there is no positive evidence on the other side ? In the matter of the
i divining rod, I could adduce equally good and positive testimony
I against the lecturers negative facts, but the above is sufficient to prove
\\ that whoever wishes to know the whole truth on this matter must not
j rely on the statements of Dr. Carpenter.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ G. A. S.”*—Noticing such people only stirs up mud. Let him alone.
Due. 15, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
237
iPoettg.
LINES BY DR. gLADE.
Dk. Slade informs ns that the following lines were written by him
recently one gloomy morning in London ; the ideas came into his head as
fast as he could write them:—
• 3 ■ Sunlight, the sunlight!
The golden light of life !
How peacefully thou glancest down
Upon the-waves of strife 1
The weary voyager looks forth
Upon the stormy main ;
God crowns the billows with a smile,
And hope returns again.
Sunlight, the sunlight!
Life is not made of care ;
The thunder does not always sound
Upon the darkened air ;
Unbend, unbend that gloomy brow,
Behold, the clouds are riven ;
An angel draws the veil aside,
And shows a glimpse of heaven.
Sunlight, the sunlight!
Thanks for the glorious grace ;
It smiles upon the loneliest shrub
In this world’s wilderness ;
It comes to bless the wildest heart;
The snow-flakes melt away;
The faded earth is wreathed with flowers ;
Thanks for the sunlight ray.
A SONG OF THE CIRCLE.
i.
We plighted troth in days gone by,
When sunny was the summer sky.
Few words she spake; her soft brown eyes
Beamed with an exquisite surprise.
Surely her heart, though, knew full well
The tale of love I dared to tell!
“HAIL! AND FAREWELL!”
Hail ! and farewell! Such is the frail condition
Of earthly intercourse. We meet to part.
Joy perishes in rapture of fruition:
Alas! my heart!
The flowers we gather wither in the grasping;
On beauty’s cheek no fadeless lilies dwell ;
The hands we clasp grow throbless in the clasping.
Hail! and farewell!
Hail! and farewell! the smile of welcome beameth,
Brief as effulgent upon lover’s lips.
In hope exultant youth but little dreameth,
Of hope’s eclipse;
Nor cares to think that time, who looks so radiant,
Is disenchanting fancy’s magic spell,
To dust dissolving all her fairy pageant.
Hail! and farewell!
Hail! and farewell! ’tis thus each short-lived pleasure
Fades from our vision like a phantom wan;
We tmm to gaze upon our new-found treasure,
And lo ! ’tis gone !
’Mid the delights that we most keenly covet,
Still are we startled by fond memory’s knell.
Ave; et vale ! Oh, my heart’s beloved,
Hail! and farewell! ”—Public Opinion.
FAR FROM THE HAUNTS OF MEN.
The following lines by Mr. W. H. Harrison have been previously published
in the Haverfordwest Telegraph and other journals
When the setting sun in splendour
Slowly sinks from mortal sight,
Robes the earth with clouds of crimson,
Crowns the sea with living light—
When the rainbow hues of sunset
Fading from the hills are seen,
And the night with dusky mantle
Reigns our sable-shrouded Queen—-
Calming earth with all its passions :
Envy, hatred, fear, and love:
And the pale white stars are throbbing,
Throbbing in the heavens above—
When earth’s sister orb ascending.
Tints with light each hillock green,
And the ferns with dewdrops bending
Glisten in the silvery sheen—
Then I feel how sin and error,
Stain the earth by mortals trod—
Far from men the troubled spirit
Seeks its fellowship with God.
(Eorresponuence.
{Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposite
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; copies
■ should be kept by the Writers.]
SPIRITUALISM.—A SHAM OR A REALITY?
To the Editor of the “ Dorset County Express.''
Sm,—In your paper for Nov. 28th I see you speak of Dr. F. Wins¬
low’s “ interesting pamphlet,” called Spiritualistic Madness, and quote
therefrom his statement that “ nearly ten thousand persons have gone
insane upon this subject, and are confined in the public asylums of the
United States.”
I believe that most of your readers will find it far more “ interesting ”
to know this terrible statement is entirely inaccurate.
A year or so ago, a gentleman who was travelling in the United
States took the trouble to go to all the asylums that he came across,
and they were many. At each asylum he asked the doctor, “ How many
inmates have you who have been driven mad by Spiritualism ?’’
“ Not one,” was the invariable reply, “but,” was added, “we have
many who are suffering from religious mania.”
Spiritualism is now becoming an important feature in our everyday
experiences.
In spite of the continual “ exposures,” the innumerable “ deaths ”
and “ burials” it has gone through, it is still marching on, stronger
than ever. Gathering within its ranks believers from every class of
society, and more especially do we find in our midst some of the most
intellectual thinkers of the day.
Knowing this, it is, to say the least, most rash for Dr. Winslow to
have published his ** interesting pamphlet” without having investigated
more carefully the subject he has so abused, and (evidently through
ignorance of it) so entirely misrepresented. It is useless to abuse or
ignore it any longer. Spiritualism is in our midst—a strong,power for
good, and, alas! also for evil.
Spiritualists invite investigation ; and, instead of joining the hue and
cry against us raised by those ignorant of the subject, would it not be
wiser to take note of the words of Gamaliel uttered eighteen hundred
years ago, in reference to a subject not very distinct from that of Spirit¬
ualism—“Refrain from these men, and let them alone; for if this
counsel or this work be of men it will come to nought, but if it
be of God ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply ye be found even to fight
against God.”
I have a large circle of friends, perfectly sane. Those of my friends
who know me the most intimately do not think me insane; and yet,
thank God! I have been a Spiritualist for twenty years, a medium for
thirteen years.
I think, therefore, I may, without conceit, give an opinion on the
When spotless snow bedecked the hill,
My love lay white, my love lay still.
“ Ah! never more,” I said, “ shall stand
My sweet and I, clasp’d hand in hand;
Alas ! alas ! In vain I sigh—-
Earth’s fairest flower tnust die—must die.”
in.
Long time in darkness I had lain;
Forgotten now, all grief and pain !
Not dead; thou livest at my side,
My gentle Alice, spirit bride!
Come in the gloaming! I am fain
To meet thee, darling, once again.—F. E. W.
THE CLOSING YEAR.
The birds have all forgot their song,
So full of joy and cheer;
The day is dark, the night is long,
And with the dying year
The war-clouds gather black and largo,
And daily loom more near,
As they their fury would discharge
O’er half a hemisphere.
The Crescent and the Cross once more
Revive the ancient feud,
That threatens as in days of yore
To drench the earth with blood.
We cry in weariness and pain,
“0 God that war might cease,
The Golden Age return again.
Millennial year of peace : ”
Well may the joyous summer bird
Forget its peaceful song ;
The raven’s note alone bo heard,
As centuries of wrong,
Of wanton outrage, vice, and crime,
Boar fruit of burning hate ;
Yet still wo-trust the better time, ■
And watch, and work, and wait.—T. S.
“ IF I DIE ElRST.”
If 1 die first, dear Love, my mournful soul set free,
Shall sit at Heaven’s high portal, to wait and watch for thee ;
To wait and watch for thee, Love, and through the deep dark space
To peer with human longings for thy all radiant face.
’Mid all the stars of Heaven one only shall I see—
The earth-star of my passion, half Heaven for holding thee;
All Heaven for holding thee, Love, and brightest of the spheres,
By thy smile illumined, or hallowed by thy tears.
If I die first, dear Love, I feel that this shall be,
For Heaven will not be Heaven until it's shared with thee ;
Until ’tis shared with thee, Love, I’ll linger at the gate,
Or be thy guardian angel, to teach thee how to wait.
And when thy hour is come, and through the yielding night
I view thy happy spirit, upsoaring, robed in white,
Mine shall go forth to greet thee, and through the eternal door
Pass in with thee rejoicing, made one for evermore.
Charles Mackay.
238
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 15, 1870.
subject—an opinion founded upon knowledge, and not upon mere sur¬
mise ; and I declare that Spiritualism, rightly understood, will do more
to remove the bane of insanity from our midst, and to restore our
lunatics to mental health (and most especially such as suffer from that
terrible delusion called “ religious mania”), than any power has ever
done since the days our Saviour walked the earth. ' Some forms of
so-called madness are but the result of partially developed or disorderly
mediumship.
A knowledge of Spiritualism, which is gradually unfolding to us some
of the wonderful laws of mediumship, is the only knowledge that can be
of any practical use in such cases ; and a doctor who dares to undertake
the cure of such cases, whilst ignoring Spiritualism, must fail most
miserably. F. j. Theobald,
M.B.N. Association of /Spiritualists.
88, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MB. WILLIAMS'S SEANCES.
Sm,—Mr. Williams’s seance on Saturday, Dec. 9th, was more than
usually successful. The room being very crowded with friends, “ Peter’’
gave his customary manifestations, nearly every one being touched. On
this occasion the musical box was apparently carried to a greater dis¬
tance in an easterly direction than I have hitherto observed.
After the cabinet seance had commenced, “ John King ” was distinctly
visible, with his lamp, and subsequently another form, which I can state
to be entirely dissimilar in features from “John King,” and which was
recognised by a lady present as one known to her. The manifestations
of “ John King ” were frequent, and he allowed several to inspect the
aspect of his face in front, and in profile. Mr. Williams was in the
cabinet all the time, and the conditions appeared thoroughly satisfac¬
tory, both on the part of the medium and the sitters.
  C. Cartek Blake.
NORTH OF ENGLAND SPIRITUALISTS’ CONFERENCE COMMITTEE.
Sir,—The executive of the above held a meeting on Sunday, Dec.
3rd, in the Old Freemasons’ Hall, Newcastle-on-Tyne. It was
resolved—“ That our next quarterly conference be held in this hall on
Sunday, Jan. 14th, 1877, at 10.30 a.m. Also, that Mr. J. J. Morse be
engaged to attend the conference, and lecture in the evening.”
The executive earnestly urge all Spiritualists in Newcastle and dis¬
trict to try to be present on the above occasion, that, by mutual consi¬
deration, Spiritualism may be brought more prominently before the
public. It. Mowbray, jun., Hon. Sec.
23, Grainger-street. ———
A SEANCE WITH DR. SLADE.
Sir,—On Thursday, December 7th, 1876, at 10 a.m., my brother and
I had a sitting with Dr. Slade. Immediately after we entered the
apartment, which is a well-lighted sitting-room, Dr. Slade turned up
the table, to show that he had no mechanical contrivances. After
examining the table we took our seats. It is an old Pembroke table;
Mrs. Burke told us she had had it for nearly thirty years. We measured
the table with a string, and found that it is 2 ft. 11 Jin. long, and, when
the leaves are up, it is. 3 ft. 6J in. wide. There were two supporters
under one leaf, and one supporter under the other. I sat with my back
to the fireplace, and my brother sat facing Dr. Slade, who sat with his
left side to the table, consequently, his legs and feet were entirely away
from the table. I took a double slate with me that I bought in Black¬
burn, and my brother took a new slate which he had bought at Allman’s,
Oxford-street, London, a few minutes before the sitting. On sitting
down, Dr. Slade put one of his own slates under the corner of the table.
As I sat next to him, I could see the small crumb of pencil on the top of
the slate when he put the slate under the table. I could also see part
of the frame of the slate, and almost all his hand. Immediately the
slate was put under the table we hefird the grating sound of the pencil,
and, in about a minute, or a minute and a half, the writing ceased, and
raps were heard oh the slate. He then slowly took the slate from under
the table, both of us watching to see there was no deception used in
turning the slate over. As the edge of the slate was slowly drawn from
under the table, we saw that it was covered with writing, written in very
straight lines..and in a beautiful hand. As this was on his own slate,
he said—“ You will want better proof than this; we will now try on
yohr double slate.” Placing a crumb of pencil inside the leaves of the
slate, he attempted to put it under the table, but every time he tried,
the slate seemed pushed back by some unseen power. He then laid
it on the top of the table, and my brother began to tell about
a sermon that the Rev. James Wayman, of Blackpool, had preached
the previous Sunday against Spiritualism. While we were talking about
the sermon the sound of writing was heard going on inside the
clasped slates that lay on the table. At this time our hands were joined
together, and were not within six or eight inches of the slates. In a
few seconds raps were heard, and on opening the slates there was a
message relating to the subject we were talking about; it read as fol¬
lows: “ Be true to yourself, and you will be true to G-od. I am truly,
Allie.” He then gave my brother a slate with a bit of pencil on it, and
told him to hold it under the table; he again placed a crumb of pencil in
my folding slates, and again clasped the clasp. He again tried to put
the slate under the table, but was unable’; this time it came tome, when
I took hold of one corner. Dr. Slade holding the other. He then asked
if they would write on the slate held by my brother; the answer came
on-the slate I had hold of—“ We cannot do so now; can in time if he
will sit,1 Allie.’’ • ■ .
My slate being written on on both sides, he took the slate bought by
my brother, placed another crumb of pencil upon it, and again tried to
put it under: the table; this time the slate came and rested on my head ;
while there a message was written, sighed W: W. This message Dr.
Slade rubbed out, and again put a bit of pencil on the slate. This time
he'was enabled to put the slate under the table, and in a few seconds there
was written “We are not able to write any more, Allie.” We had also
an accordion playing. A chair jumped clean up from the floor, the table
rose a foot high with all its four legs right off the floor, my brother was
touched, and on my expressing a wish to be touched in the same way,
the chair I sat upon as well as myself was pushed close to the table.
We all three saw spirit hands, when it was impossible for Dr. Slade to
have imposed onus. These events all happened in good daylight.
R. WOLSTENHOLME.
4, Preston New-road, Blackburn.
{/! AN EXTLANATION.
| (j Sir,—Will you kindly admit an explanation of the error to which
m allusion is made in Mr. Joy’s letter of the 5th instant, in reference to
l(j Mr. Eamore Jones. The statement should not have been applied to
\Y\ him, but to another gentleman, whose name I withhold merely because
m I am not sure whether he would like it to appear in print. I think the
jjl circumstances under which Dr. Monck’s letters were written and re-
j ji ceived, while he was in custody at Huddersfield, may render this error
| (j excusable. The chief constable only allowed him, as a rule, to read a
I letter, or read it to him himself, and then took possession of it, so that
Dr. Monck saw no more of it. This may easily account for some little
j confusion in the matter of names, either of individuals or committees.
I think this is all the correction requisite to render the statements in
| my letter of the 22nd ultimo in accordance with the facts.—I am, sir,
yours respectfully, George Tommy.
7, Unity-street, College Green, Bristol, Dec. 12th, 1876.
MR. C. C. MASSEY ON THE SLADE PROSECUTION.
| We republished from the Times all the letters of public interest
about the Slade prosecution, with the exception of the following, which
j was kept out of these pages at the time for want of space
To the Editor of the “ Times.”
Sir,—The letter of Mr. Algernon Clarke, which you published on
Friday, is a striking illustration of the ignorance which, in combination
with a prejudice that is fast assuming the evil features of intolerance, is
likely not only to work cruel injustice to individuals, but also to reduce
inquirers to the mediaeval resources of proscribed and clandestine inves¬
tigation. One of the objects of the defence in the late prosecution was
to enlighten this ignorance by the evidence of those who, from their long
experience in this subject, may be called experts, and who would have
dispelled several crude misconceptions which are at the root of un¬
founded suspicions, and of the demand for impracticable tests. That
j?! and other evidence Mr. Munton was not permitted to adduce. With
I ]! suggestions such as that of Mr. Clarke we are all familiar. They sound
| (i plausible, simply because people do not realise the distinction between
| ji physical and psychological conditions. Students of that deeply in-
in teresting and instructive work, Dr. Carpenter’s Mental Physiology (with
H| attentive and repeated perusals of which I fortified myself on en-
I ji tering upon my own investigations of these phenomena), are impressed
j ri by the multitude of examples of the paralysis or perversion of organic
Hi processes by emotional states. Now, if there is one fact which experi-
I ji ence has abundantly proved, it is that this force, which we say operates
Hi beyond the organism, is most intimately associated with the mental and
Hi nervous condition of the subject. Agitation, anger, anxiety, depression
jjl almost infallibly arrest it. Equanimity^—and “mediums” are often the
j T most excitable of mankind—is usually an indispensable condition. To
Hi require that this force should operate in the midst of a jeering multi-
| jj tude, with the subject of it crushed and disheartened by apprehensions,
j (j by the sense of wrong, by solicitude for the result, is to betray an igno-
Iy ranee of psychology, pardonable enough in the inventor of “Psycho,”
but which those who have given years of study to the subject may
surely be allowed to correct. Of this ignorance the prosecution in the
Slade case have had and have taken the fullest advantage, while our
i hands have been tied by the rejection of all but a fragment of our
evidence. Upon the legal admissibility of that evidence another tribunal
j will have to decide; but the evident object of the prosecution being to
j discredit, perhaps, even to interdict, an investigation which has become
formidable, and, therefore, odious to certain materialistic men of science,
Hj it will be hard indeed if the Press, which should be the jealous guardian
\)\ of the right of free inquiry, refuses us a hearing on a broader issue than
Hi that to which, it may be, the law confines us.—Your obedient servant,
|;| C. C. Massey.
1 Temple.
Spiritualism at Home;—A correspondent of the Sussex Daily News
says :—“ The propagation of Spiritualism depends not on public but on
|j] private mediumship, the supply of which is constantly increasing, and
j( will increase more and more in proportion to the demand. Spiritualism
I \ j spreads from family to family, from house to house; and nothing can stay
i j j its progress. Dining recently at a friend’s, one of the company was a re-
Kj markable child of between two and three years old. This child is a
jjj medium, and through him spirits present joined in the conversation by
j ji means of raps on the table and on the floor. After a while, some assur-
j(l ance given in this way by a spirit being doubted by the company, the
H| end of the table at which the little medium was sitting—a very long and
ijl heavy table in the large dining-room of one of the largest houses in
j i Brighton—was lifted suddenly and brought down thrice on the floor
Hi with an energy that threatened with destruction the fragile ware upon
|jj it. This little boy sees and converses with spirits, and will write and
Hi draw by the hour under spirit control. I venture to suggest to Prof.
Hi Lankester that it is useless to imprison Dr. Slade while this little fellow
|ji remains at large, and that, to be consistent, he should at once take steps
Hi for seizing the above-mentioned table and for protecting the helpless
jjj ‘ parents, with their friends, from this portentous baby.”
Dec. 15. 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
239
OPPOSITION TO RELIGIOUS AND SCIENTIFIC TRUTH !
IN SAN FRANCISCO. ■. j
BY THE HON. J. L. O’SULLIVAN, FORMERLY AMERICAN MINISTER AT THE i)
COURT OF PORTUGAL. j{
A little crusade against Spiritualism, through its j
mediums, has been undertaken here too, and ii post hoc i
were necessarily propter hoc, I might say that it is a con- I
sequence of the temporary success before your police jj
magistrate, Mr. Flowers, of the move against Dr. Slade, j
in London. There are a good many mediums here, |
many of whom advertise in the daily newspapers. There j
is a City Ordinance, passed by the “Board of Super- |
visors,” which, in the long list of various industries and j
employments for which a license is required, stich as hack- j
drivers, butchers, &c., &c., &c., includes “ astrologers, seers, j
fortunetellers, and clairvoyants^ who are required to pay j
fifty dollars a quarter—a rate which seems to be meant to j
be prohibitory, when it is compared with the general run of j
these license taxes. The Ordinance makes it a criminal j
offence to exercise any of these license-paying employments
without the license dbtaiheffl and paid for in advance, the j
penalty being “ not less than one year’s imprisonment or j
500 dollars fine, or both.” About a week ago a raid was i
made on the mediums, some half-dozen being arrested for j
violation of this ordinance. Some settled it by paying up. !
Two refused, gave bail, resisted the attempt to force on their |
cases the next day, and have had the 1st December j
appointed for their trial, in a jury police-court, called the I
City Criminal Court. The judge has already shown a decided j
animus against them. They are Dr. Matthew and his mother I
Mrs. Maynard ; the former of whom gives good materialisa- !
tion public seances, while both give private stances of a j
clairvoyant character. jj
The Spiritualist Association of San Francisco has taken j
up their case, and both it and Dr. Matthew himself intend to *j[
fight it out by appeals up to the highest courts. The basic j
idea of the defence is that Spiritualism is a religion, and that j
the mode and means of it's propagation are the demonstra- |
'tion,to mankind through mediums, of the great truth of the |
immortality of the soul as proved by the communication of I
disembodied spirits with us mortals still in the flesh; and |
that any City Ordinance or State law forbidding or impeding |
it, is a violation of those fundamental principles of the con- |
stitution of the State of California, and the Constitution of j
the United States, which guarantee the perfect and entire j
freedom of religion. It will thus be argued that the Ordinance ij
as Sought to be applied to spirit mediumship, is null and j
void for unconstitutionality, that fatal defect which, when j
established judicially, strikes dead at once equally an Act !
of Congress or a Municipal Ordinance. j
The prosecution and the judge, who had thought to dis- !
pose of the case off hand in “ three minutes,” seemed a j
little surprised at the proportions it began to assume when jj
the defence stated their position as the ground for insisting jj
on a little time for preparation, for which nine days were j
accorded and accepted. This trial may, therefore, be con- j
sidered as the first skirmish of a campaign whose final |
decisive battle may have to be fought in the Supreme !
Court of the United States at Washington. I am summoned j
(after having volunteered) as a witness to testify to the |
point of the religious character of modern Spiritualism, on j
which I can certainly speak with the strongest and deepest j
conviction.
San Francisco, Nov. 24th, 1876. (
INDIAN YOGIS.
The Yogi or logi sect maintain the practicability of ac¬
quiring, even in this life, entire commarid over elementary
matter by means of certain ascetic practices. The practices
consist chiefly of long continued suppressions of respiration,
of inhaling and exhaling the breath in a peculiar manner,
of fixing the eyes on the top of the nose, and endeavouring
by force of mental abstraction to ’ effect a union between
the portion of the vital spirit residing in the body and that
which pervades all nature.
When this mystic union is effected the Yogi is liberated
in his living body from the clog of material encumbrances
and acquires an entire command over all worldly substances.: 1
He claims to make himself lighter than the lightest sub¬
stances, heavier than the heaviest; can become as vast or
as minute as he pleases ; can traverse all. space; can animate
any dead body; can render himself invisible; can attain ail
objects, and is equally acquainted with the past, present, and
future.
It will be seen that these manifestations all agree with
the phenomena known amongst ourselves. Moreover the
Yogis invoke the aid and claim that they receive help from
the Pitris or spirits of ancestors. This spiritual aid is
emphatically alleged to be always present when they perform
their wonders, and they affirm that without this aid they
can do little or nothing.—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
The celebrated medium, Mrs. Kane, has taken up her residence at
34, Guilford-street, Russell-square, W.C.
Dr. Carter Blake has in the press a “ Manual of Anthropology,”
with maps and woodcuts.
With the permission of Prof. Owen, F.R.S., Superintendent of the
Natural History Department, British Museum, lectures will be delivered
by Dr. Carter Blake, Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy, Westminster
Hospital, in the Galleries of Antiquity and Natural History, British
Museum, on the 27th, 29th, and 30th December, from 11 to 1 p.m.
Information as to terms may be obtained at 38, Great Russell-street.
A Somnambulist in Church.—Rev. Dr. Shermer, pastor of the Balti¬
more Methodist Protestant Church, was in the midst of his sermon one
Sunday night, when a rather strange interruption occurred. A little
girl about ten years old arose from her seat in a pew beside her mother
and walked up the aisle and into the pulpit, passing behind the preacher.
From the pulpit platform she stepped on a chair, the back of which was
placed against the pulpit platform, and from the chair on to the top of
the communion table, a marble oblong slab, several feet long, in front of
the pulpit. She walked the length of the table, and seemed just aboqt
to step or fall to the floor when she was caught by a member of the
church who came forward. He lifted her down, when she sank to the
floor. She was immediately surrounded by the pastor, her mother, arjd
other friends, who found that she was sound asleep. She did not awake
until after her mother had removed her to the pew, from which she had
started on her peregrinations. She said she, dreamt she was in the
pulpit. Dr. Shermer says he thought she was some child unused to the
pulpit, who wanted a drink of water from the pitcher. He noticed that
her steps were light and noiseless, and heit eyes fixed^ but he did not
suspect she was walking in her sleep until she passed in front of him on
the communion table. It is stated the child is not used to sleep walk¬
ing, this being her first performance.—Religio-Philosophical Journal, »
Spiritualism in Newcastle. — On Wednesday evening, last
week, at the schoolroom of the Unitarian Church, New Bridge-
street, Newcastle-on-Tyne, the, usual monthly meeting of thr
members of the Mutual Improvement Class, to the number of
nearly one hundred, were entertained by the reading of a paper
by Mr. Kay, on “What is the use of Spiritualism?” The speaker
was listened to with the deepest attention, it being well known
that he was an active worker in the cause of Spiritualism, and a member
of that Church. Free discussion was invited. The Rev. Alfred Payne",
who presided, called upon Mr. Rhodes to speak. He briefly stated
that from his experience—the result of having attended at least one
seance per week for the last five or six years, and from his possession
of some share of medial powers—the chief use of Spiritualism to him
had been that it corroborated and explained the phenomena described
in the Bible. The president then stated that he had himself made
some investigation into spiritual phenomena some years ago ; as far as
he could see Spiritualism was of no use in affording information which
could be as well if not better obtained elsewhere. In reference to the
photograph which Mr. Rhodes had handed to him (one of Mr. Bow¬
man’s specimens of direct-wriling, through the mediumship of Mr;
Duguid, of Glasgow), he thought that if it was what it purported to
be, it was done by a spirit imperfectly acquainted with Greek. He
then translated the writing for the benefit of those present. Consider¬
able discussion ensued, but the extreme interest of the evening was
reserved for Mr. Mowbray, who stated that the great use of Spirit¬
ualism was that it demonstrated another state of existence. In proof
of that assertion he detailed the particulars of a seance he had attended
a few days previously in the private house of a gentleman in that town;
The medium, Miss Wood, was put into a net-bag fastened round her
neck and sealed, and as she lay on the floor the net was not only nailed
to the floor, but also sealed thereto. Then there came from the cabinet
a male figure, taller than the medium, robed in soft white drapery, and
remained with them for half-an-hour or so. Almost immediately after
the figure retired they entered the cabinet and found the medium as
they had first placed her, all the seals and everything intact. Therefore,
if his statement was true—and it could be corroborated by several
others who were present—it fully answered the-questiou of the evening
by proving a glorious immortality. A vote; of thanks to Mr. Kuy was
unanimously accorded for his paper, and the subject for the first
Wednesday in January was announced, viz., “ThePursuit of Science,”
by Mr. C. VV. Young. The meeting then terminated.—A seance was
held at Weirs Court on Sunday morning last. Mr. Rhodes says : —
“About ten persons were present. The medium was, outside the
cabinet, visible to all, and a draped figure came from within; it ap¬
peared two or.three times ; the features could not be seen. A chair
outside the cabinet was drawn inside, and then thrown out over the
head of;the medium into the circle.”. . .
240
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 15, 1876.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
On Thursday, last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting of the
Psychological Society, held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square,
London, Mr. Seijeant Cox presided.
Dr. James Croll, of Edinburgh, was elected an honorary member.
PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIMENTS.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that he would vouch for the truth of the fol¬
lowing statements, although he was not at liberty to give the name of
the lady mentioned therein; she was the daughter of one of our foreign
Ministers, and he would call her Miss B . He then read a letter
from a writer well acquainted with the phenomena, which took place in
Miss B ’s presence; it set forth that she would sit in the drawing¬
room with her eyes bandaged*;. a book or newspaper would then be
placed under her left hand, and with her other hand she would write out
any word which chanced to be under her left hand, but she never knew
what that word was until she looked at her writing. She would pass
her hand over a number of visiting cards in succession, and discover
whose they were: Dr. Carpenter was quite wrong in his explanation of
such things in his psychological work. Miss B would answer un¬
spoken questions ; her power varied, and sometimes left her altogether.
One day she said, |K Papa, about those streaks in the sky,” and he re¬
plied, “ How curious! I was looking at it before sunrise this morning,
and noticed the curious streaks upon it." Mr. Serjeant Cox continued
that he had met this lady in London himself a few weeks ago. Her
younger sister was with her. Miss B left the room, and it was re¬
solved that she should open a photographic album containing at least a
hundred photographs, and should select a particular one from among
the number. When she entered, one of the party placed his hands on
her shoulders; she went to the book and selected the photograph; this
was tried in many ways, and never failed. What was to be done was
known to everybody in the room, so it was resolved that one person only
snould will her to do something; he silently willed that she should
select a cup from among many others upon the sideboard, and give it to
one of the party; he placed his hands on her shoulders, and she did it.
He (Mr. Serjeant Cox) then tried some experiments, to be certain that
there was no guidance by involuntary pressure. He found that if his
mind wandered from the object of search, she wandered also, but that
when his mind was fixed, she went direct to the object. Those who sup¬
posed this to be caused by involuntary pressure rather than by thought-
reading, could not explain the selection of the photograph; besides,
there was a rapidity and directness of movement, and a coolness in
selecting one small object from among many that seemed to preclude the
“ involuntary pressure” explanation. A card was taken from a pack;
she passed her fingers over it, and the observers then mixed it with the
rest; she afterwards selected it from the whole mass while her eyes
were blindfolded. While she was thus blindfolded, and in a strange
house, a book of travels which she had never seen was placed in her
hands; she opened it, and placed her left hand upon a picture in it, then
with her right hand she drew a rough outline of the picture, and wrote
under it the word “ Iceland.” There was nothing in the picture or upon
the page at which the book had been opened to show that the scene was
in Iceland, as was the fact. The family to which she belonged had gone
to Portugal for the winter.
THE PHENOMENA OF ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM.
Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary secretary, then read a paper by Mr. E.
H. Yalter, of Birmingham, on “ The Phenomena of Artificial Somnam¬
bulism and Electro-Biology.” The paper first gave an outline history
of mesmerism, after which it minutely described the operations gone
through by mesmeric operators in influencing their patients.
Mr. Dunlop said that the phenomena were so well known that it was
scarcely necessary to bring forward examples to prove their reality. In
the gossip of the clubs it was now admitted that there was something in
mesmerism, but there was a tendency to ridicule Spiritualism.
Although the public were at last convinced of the truth of mesmerism
he thought that they knew nothing whatever about it. It struck him that
some of the explanations in Mr. Valter’s paper w^ere scarcely warranted,
especially those portions wherein he spoke of the sensitives absorbing a
fluid of some kind from the operator. He had seen much of mes¬
merism, and had watched Dr. Esdaile at work in a hospital in Calcutta,
where he was much opposed by the local surgeons. Water mesmerised
by Esdaile succeeded admirably in throwing patients into coma;,
another doctor tried common water, and it had just the same effect when
another operation had to be performed, consequently he (Mr. Dunlop)
thought that the mesmerised person did the whole thing himself by his
own mind, and that there was no mesmeric fluid. He had been taught
mesmerism by Professor Stone, who uses passes and complicated mani¬
pulations, but he afterwards discovered that the same thing might be
done in a simpler manner by merely working upon the mind of the
sensitive, consequently he thought that nothing passed from the
operator to the mesmerised person. Preachers got hold of people’s
mental faculties in the same way, and made them believe almost any-*
thing they pleased. He believed that a shilling would do quite as well
as the copper and zinc discs of the mesmerists for putting persons to
sleep. Dr. Chalmers once gave a party in Calcutta; he went to the
Bank of ’Bengal, obtained a perfectly new note from it, went home and
put it on a table upstairs, then came down and asked a clairvoyant boy
brought there by Esdaile, if he would describe his private room. The
boy described the room, and at last came to the note upon the table;
he then read the number of it as clearly as if it had been a newspaper
close before his eyes. This was a good case of clairvoyance.
Mr. Rowan was also of opinion that mesmeric operations were mental,
and that nothing passed from the one person to the other. He also had
been taught mesmerism by Professor Stone, and once he suggested to a
sensitive under the influence that he would transfer all his power of
i{
j !
mesmerising to another person in the room; the sensitive at once suc¬
cumbed to the influence of the other individual, but was free from it
directly he (Mr. Rowan) said he had taken the power away from that
person. Suggestion alone produced the effect. When a person was half
way into a mesmeric state, either in going to sleep or waking up, he was
in the condition known as “ electro-biologised.” He thought that passes
were not necessary to produce mesmeric effects, but that mesmerism
.was an operation of the brain and mind; once he mesmerised a young
lady who had never been mesmerised before, and she did not know that
he was trying experiments.
Mr. W. H. Coffin said that some years ago he made inquiries into
Spiritualism and mesmerism, and came to the opposite conclusion to
that which Mr. Dunlop stated to prevail at the clubs, for he discovered
that there was a great deal in Spiritualism and very little in mesmerism.
He learned all he could from various biologists, and discovered how by
totally different methods they produced the same results, until at last he
came to the conclusion that it was wholly due to the subjective influence
of the mind of the patient upon himself. The patients usually were
hysterical persons, liable to enter states of ecstatic exaltation. After
learning much from those who possessed experience, he began to make
experiments for himself, and he found that it mattered very little what
the operator did, so long as he told the patients what the result was to
be. One evening he made his sensitive sit in a chair, and told him to
look at the fire and at the objects in the room, or at anything but him¬
self (Mr, Coffin), as the sight of him would spoil the effect. He (Mr.
Coffin) sat behind the sensitive doing nothing at all, except that he read
a newspaper and took no further notice of the patient, who soon fell off
his chair, and said that he felt the influence of the passes down the back
of his neck. He (Mr. Coffin) had just left Dr. Carpenter’s lecture on
Spiritualism at the London Institution, and it was a question in his
mind whether Dr. Carpenter’s paper, or that by Mr. Valter, was the
most unsatisfactory.
The Chairman agreed with all the other speakers that the mesmeric
state was a self-induced condition, and that no invisible fluid was at
work. He had once tried many experiments with Dr. Elliotson to
satisfy himself upon that particular point, and had never once discovered
a trace of proof of the existence of any mesmeric fluid. The eye and
the attention of the person had to be fixed for a certain time, after which
he would go to sleep and his will would be entirely suspended; when he
was in that state his eye-balls would always be turned upwards and
inwards, and by this a real trance could be told from a sham one.
When a suggestion was made to a person in this state, he thought that
the suggestion started a dream in his mind, but that the mesmeric
patient acted the dream, whereas persons who dream in sleep merely
think that they are acting in it. If anybody suggested to the patient
that he was a preacher, he dreamt that he was a preacher, and preached
away. Clairvoyance depended much upon the influence of the operator.
He could make almost any mesmeric patient clairvoyant, while some
operators could not produce that effect at all. Some of the patients said
that they could not exercise the power, but he told them that they could,
and that they must try. Thus they gradually acquired the power, and
what he had just said showed that they might be educated up to it.
They would then read books with ease when their eyes were bandaged.
He once had a clerk who would play at cards with him for hours, with
his eyes bandaged and stufled with cotton wool. Upon the wall were
several almanacks, one pasted upon the top of the other for years, and
this boy once read figures beneath the surface; six papers had to be
removed before the number was found. Hundreds of times he had
sealed up words in envelopes, and the boy had read them without failing
once in twenty experiments. The boy was naturally very stupid, but in
the mesmeric state he was intelligent. He always put the papers on his
stomach when he read the words. On being asked how he read them
he said that he saw a blue flame upon the first paper, then the paper
disappeared; next he saw a blue flame upon the second envelope, and
then that one disappeared; afterwards he saw the flame on the third,
and so on, until at last he would exclaim, “Now the last one has gone,
and I see the word! ” Thus he did not see through the paper, but some¬
thing was gradually removed. He (Mr. Serjeant Cox) could never
influence a mesmeric patient in another room, although he had tried to
do so over and over again ; some suggestion to the mind of the person
had always to be made. There was no doubt about the fact of mind¬
reading, for he had seen cases; he thought that it arose from vibrations
set up in one brain which had originated in another.
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood said that the thought-reading explanation
of clairvoyance did not seem to agree with many facts. One day Pro¬
fessor De Morgan was dining with the Chief Baron in Queen-square ; a
clairvoyant sensitive described to Mrs. De Morgan all that was going
on there, and how the Chief Baron sent for Lady Pollock to come to
listen to what Mr. De Morgan was saying. This could not have been
the reading of Mrs. De Morgan’s thoughts, for she did not know the
facts at the time.
Mr. Coffin did not see how Mr. Serjeant Cox’s thought-reading theory
explained how his clerk could read a number upon a paper on the wall
with six other sheets of paper pasted over it, when Mr. Serjeant Cox
himself did not know what the number was. Some of the cases appeared
to have been explained by their president as supersensuous perception,
while in other cases supersensuous perception was ruled out as thought¬
reading.
Mr. Serjeant Cox replied that when the boy played cards blindfolded, it
could not have been a case of thought-reading, so far as the boy’s own
cards were concerned.
On the motion of Mr. Coffin the discussion was then adjourned.
Professor Lankester is a member of the Savile Club, Savile Row,
London, W.
Dec.' 15,' 1876;
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C. ’
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard' work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. Gd.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Gd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the' services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEAROHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM,»by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York. U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Gd.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for .inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee. D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one Of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
.who receive their'instructions.” 6s. Gd.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rale, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents : The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneuinatology; Miracles
and ;Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. i2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. Gd.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s Gd.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals {were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair-
•voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vois. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Yala," published
, in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Voe, is better than hny which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. Gd.; cheap edition,
7s, Gd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. Gd.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
'William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. Gd.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM.MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, ,and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. Gd.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd. 1
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s Gd.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This b.ook argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. Gd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. Gd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains, the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of.F. J.
T. (Part one), Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Gd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ARIL IT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C,S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Gd.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s. .
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d,
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s, (id.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s:
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. Cd.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d,
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. Gd.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Cd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE, • 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. Aninteresting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDlOlNE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA. OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Od.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Gd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. Gs.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer,,1765. 2s. Gd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,- by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Gd.) 4s..
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39,- Great Marlborough Street,
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. TlNEL as a
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTORIU1VI. For Organ, 4s. ,
JOAN OF ARO. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.B.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. Cd. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 5s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s,
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Ohidiock Tichborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose, 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, 6d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS TREHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier an Soir, words by Victor -Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, Gd.
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien's
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee. 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather: Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie's Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER,. MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
Just published, a New Song.
T) EMEMBRANCE (embossed title), 4s. in A
JLAi flat for contralto or baritone, and in C for soprano or
tenor. Wotds by W. H. Parker. Sung by Miss Laura
Matthews, Mias Hellier, Mr R. Odell, and Mr. Sidney Barber.
Also the Snowdrop Mazurka and Dewdrop Redo was (second
edition), each 3s., by the same composer. To be had of all
Music-sellers, and of the Author and Publisher, post free, at
half price. Copyrights reserved. A few second-hand piano¬
fortes for sale, from £5 to HIS. N. Vickery, Professor of
Music. 9, Cambridge-terrace, Railton-road, Heme-hill, S.E.
Now Ready.—Fifty-seventh Year.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC &
MESSENGER for 1877. Post free Seven Stamps; or,
with Ephermis, Thirteen Stamps.
London: Catty and Dobson, 1. Ivy Lane, E.C.
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, E.R.S.;; Dr.
H. B. Donkin; Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. C. C. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.RiG.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. -Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Siade.—2Jd.. post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
By Roy at Letters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND .
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Laee or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all oiher mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact, renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC,” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or ,of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
WANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; Used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W.
Wallis, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
TO PUBLISHERS’ ASSISTANTS.—Wanted,
An intelligent ASSISTANT, aged about 15, experienced
in publishingwork, and quick at accounts. Apply, stating
terms, and in.own.handwriting, to W, H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C.
ir
THE SPIRITUAIIST.
Beg. 15, 1876.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND,
Donations will be th^ijkfully received by the joint treasurers,
m by the secretary;'
• The Executive Committee.
ALBXXNbsa Caloeb, 1, Hereford-
sqtare.
(J, Enmore Jones, Enmore-park,
Honorary Treasurers.! qI^’wtld, M.D.. 12, Great Cum-
V. berland-place, W.
' C. o. Massey.
W. S. Moses, M.A..
Hon. Sec.—A. Joy, 69, Great Bussell Street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
ST7BSCBIPTIONS.
- £ s. d. .
Miss Douglas       25 0 0
Mr. G.O. JOad      25 0 0
“Nicodemus” ; ;       25 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder     21 0 0
„ J. N. T. Martheze     20 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn.;..'.  20 0 0
Countess Caithness    10 10 0
Mrs. Weldon  .T.'.T.......  10 10 0
Mr. Martin Smith   £    10 10 0
„ . Thomas Grant........ r..  10 10 0
Miss H.     10 0 0
Sir U. Isham, Bart    10 0 0
Mr. A.,Tod   .! .'.   10 0 0
„ J. Bulteel    !  10 0 0
“ Lady Jane Grey "    ;... 10 0 0
B. P. J.        10 0 0 ’
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood    10 0 0
Mr;Nr-F. Dawe    .' 1..., 10 0 0
Prince Fmile von Wittgenscein  6 0 0
Mr. W.Tebb'  ... 5 5 0
,y J., Enmore Jones       - 5 0 0
C. O. Massey         500
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory    5 0 0
Douglas Bayley     5 0 0
Osesr.von Hoffman   6 0 0
Dr. George Wyld   .....1............ 500
Mr. T. E..Partridge       5 0 0
Mrs. Hennings       5 0 0
Mr.’N. Eilburn, jun.     5 0 0
„ A. Joy         5 0 0
Dr. S. T. Speer       5 0 0
Mr. A. T. T. Peterson       5 0 0
Mrs. H    6 0 0
Friends at Belper, per W. P. Adshead   3 10 0
Mrs* Strawhridge “   3 3 0
Mr. J. B. Stones  J...;...;....,:. 2 12 6
„ H. Withall       2 2 0 .
Captain James      2 2 0
M.A. (Oxon.)..       2 2 0
Mr. O. Pearson     ;  2 2 0
Mr. W. P. Adshead   I 2 2 0 ’
Mr. F. W. Perciral      2 2 0
Dr. J. Dixon...........   2 0 0
Mrs. Lowe        200
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun    2 0 0
Mr. A. B. Wallace.   2 0 0
„ J. C. Ferguson     2 0 0
* D seiple ”    2 0 0
Collected by Mr. J. Bums     120
Mr. Geo. Stones   11 0
,, J. Mould     11 0
Dr. K. Cook....          110
K. G.  HI    110
J.B.W..;     1 1 0
Mrs. Maltby i   1 10
Major Menars       110
Mr. J. C.-Ward       110
E. D. Kogers .;     t 110
„ MoreH Theobald   ...;  110
1 „ William Theobald     110
„ B. M. Theobald, M.A     110
„ H. N...........1...'.   1 1 0
„ J. Andrd     1 10
„ James Brown   ;   110
The Misses Withall    110
Dr. Baikie...      110
Anon, per C. C. Massey     110
Mrs. J.Y. Vernon    1 1 0
A. M. W     |  110
Mr. T. P. Barkas   ;   110
„ Tucker  iH   .......;   100
Mrs. S. Parker    10 0
Miss Douglas Bayley    10 0
Mr. A. Smedley ;   ;   10 0
F. Smedley ..................t 1 0 0
F. J. T. (collected)    10 0
Mr; Buchanan ;    10 0
“ p ’’ (Clerlcus)    100
Smaller sums       4 11 0
‘ Frok America.
dols.
Coiby and Bich (Publishers Banner of Light),
Boston...        200,00
Epes Sergenr, E&q., Boston    50 00
‘A. P H (a Spirit)      25,00
Mrs Mary M. Hardy, Boston     25,00
Henry J; Horn, H. Y. City,.    5.00
Jeflerson Cutter. Medford, Mass  3,00
G. Sweet, M. Y. City.,    2,00
Geo. W. Gray     50
Laac Gibbs, Springflejd, Mass    5,00
Chas Case, Washington, D.C    ’ 1,00
D. B. Arnold, Pawtucket, B. 1  1,00
G. Parker        50
Harvey Howes, North Bennington, Vt  5,00 >
John A. Day, Norfolk, Mass   2,00
H. E. Parsons, Ashtabula, O     100,00
B. '.v.......'.L.,..t      1,00
J. L. DonaldsOn, BuStou, Mass  5 00
W. fl:B;  t  3,00
Margaret JacEson, Greensboro’, N.C  1,60
Qbas. LSVy^ St, Louis, Mo I   2,00
A. Fuller, Waltham Mass :    ^ 2,t 0
F. L. Grane, Tepf-ki, Kan,......r    1,00
Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston    10,00
L. B. Wilson, .Bos on      , 3,00
F. A. Gould, Boston .....7.  , 10,00
G. H. Woodts, Worcester   .2,00
E. M. Winslow, Boston     1;00
Stephen Young, Mechanicsvilje, la. ............ 1.00
Wm. Benson, Albany, N.Y. .wlQO.OO
David Appleton, XiOwell, Ma 8...,^.....,..... L 100,C0 .
Andrew Williams, Lawrence. Mass,'    ilp.0,00:
. James Codman, ,Wqrceat^L Mass. 10$t,a.,>» .100,00
Spiritualists' Defence Fund continued.
. dols.
Sarah Johnson, Worcester, Mass  100,00
Dr. Josish Jordan, Spiingfleld, Mass.   , 5,00
Mrs. Louisa Andrews, Springfield, Mass  5,00
J. L. E  ;i.......y.... * 50
Liberal Christian         1,00
E. Crowell, M.D., Brooklyn, N.Y.  50,00
C. B. Somes, Groveland, Mass.   1,00
A Poor Woman..     50
P. E..Ulster      50
M, A. Dryden, Mansfield, Mass    1,00
Jeremiah.Turner,'Warren, B. I.'  1,85
Mrs. H. J. Severauce, 'Tunbridge, Vt  1,00
C. M. Burrett, New Haven, Ut     2,00
Geo. Stacy, Montreal, P. Q.    2,00
Augustus Day,' Detroit, Mich.....    1,00
A. Burford, East Liverpool, Ohio.’   2,00
L. L. Bosecrans, Hainesvllle, N. J    1,00
M. A. Giles  ;.....    2,00
O. Giles    2,00
Jas. O. Bansom....1    60
A Friend to the Cause     2,00
W. Y., Philadelphia, Pa :...    25,00
Joseph Wescott, No. Castine, Me   2,00
Mrs. H. E. Beach, New York City   1,00
Geo. W. Smitn, Boston, Mass  20,00
“ Delta,’’ New Jersey       1,00
J. DuBois, Everett, Fa...;....'...   5,00
Mrs. A. C. Whittemore. New Boston, Ct  3,00
Mrs. Wm. Bhodes, ditto    50
E. W. S. St. Johns, P. Q  50
B. T. Briggs, Fairhaven, Mass.    50
L. K. Joslin, Providence, B. I....,  8,00
H. Sherburn, Esperance, N. Y.    50
Friend, South Framingham, Mass  1,00
Jas. T. Walton, Terre Haute, Ind  10,00
J. Campbell Kemp, Petersburg, Va  1,00
H. F. Phillips,, Providence, B. I    1,00
Wm. F. Krebs, Staunton, Va    50
Chas P. Peror, Philadelphia, Pa.    5,0J
P. Carpenter, Lancaster, Ohio1 .;   85
Mrs. John Squires, Dansville, N. Y  85
Jona. Travilla, West Chester, Pa   1,00
Dr. Dodge, St. Louis, Mo    100
A. S. Phelps. Cambridge,, Mass...,  1,00
Friend, Mt. Auburn   1,00
A Friend, Spender, Mass........;   2,00
A Tanner, Norwood, ditto     1,00
Dr. M. M. Gardner, Utica, N. Y .'  1,00
Mrs. B Bowker, Boston, Mass    1,00
Henry Seyberts, Philadelphia, Pa  25,00
H. G. Wyte, Buffalo, N. K.  i  2,00
Joseph Kinsey............    5,00
Mr. and Mrs. ifi. P. Tucke    3,00
Martin Hiscox, Providence, B. J   2,00
K. O. Chapman, Taylorsville, N. Y  1,00
A. Farnsworth, E. Saginaw, Mich....;  1,00
Henry Bennan, W. Meriden, Conn    2,00
Henry Gildemeister, Bunker Hill, 111  2,00
“ A Liberal,’’ Greenville, Me  3,00
E. D. Hall, Okolona, Miss.   50
C. A. S.     1,00
N. Huckius  ....I...*,.    1,01)
H. K. Morrill    2,00
La Fayette Tyrel, Charlestown, N. Y  1,00
P. Thompson, Saratoga Springs, N. Y.   50
John D. Tighe, Brigh'on, Mich,    1,00
C. M. S. Lawrence, .Mass..........  1,00
L. P. Boston, Highlands^ Mass  1,00
W. D. Holbrook, Waukesha, Wis 1,00
Jos. P. Hazard, feacedale, B. I    5,00
Dr. G.B. Brooklyn,N. Y..'........'..................... 3,00
Wm. "Sargent, Newport, Me. .;    1,85
J. N. H., Peacedale, B. L     25,00
Joseph Beals, Greenfield,' Mass. ...‘.    2,00
Jas. Wilson, Bridgeport, Conn  5,00
Geo. Adams, Franklin, Mass   ’ 1,00
F. B. Baker, Topeka, Kan.     5,00
Chas. H. Starbuck   ,    25
James Shackleton, Lawrence, Mass    2,00
E. Croscley   .'    1,00
D. B. St. John, Edmesiion, N. Y.   1,00
F. Hinckley, Barnstable, Mass  5,00
F. B, Manchester, W. .Randolph, Vt.   1,00
Bachie Cross ,   25
"W arren S. Barlow, St. Juhnsbury, Vt  5,00
Frederick Schroeder/Papiueau, 111  2,50
Joseph Schroeder, aitto    - 5,00
Cbas. H. Edwards, Prospect Plain, N. J  50
Samuel Robinson, Swansea, Mass  2,00
Nellie (a Spirit)      1,00
C. W. Cotton; Portsmouth', Ohio   1,00
David A. Mundy, Bah way, N. J.    2,00
Wm. D. Cyd3’, Bricksburg, N. J.     50
A Friend to the Truth, Vineland, N. J   1,00
D. Higbie, Mungarville, Mich.     50
J. Tillson, Sandy Hook, Conn £ J < 1,50
A. Hosekrans,' Scranton, Pa.    } 1,00
J. B. Armstrong, Ogdensburg, N. Y   1,00
Mrs. C. B. Marsh, E. Calais, Vt  1,00
G. Smith, No. Wavne, Me j 1,00
“A Friend of the Banner”. •  50,00
A Lady Friend............'..........    1 00
Jesse H. Butler, Los Angeles, Cal  1,00
J. W. Bobins, M.D., Uxbridge, Mass.....   2,00
Mr. and Mrs. J. Boberts, Bush, N.Y  . 2,00
C. D. Stone, Marblehead. Mass.. ;  50
“ A Friend,” Birmingham, Ohio  1,00
Elijah Gordon, Bangor, Me   1,00
J. B. Angel, Bed Bank, N. J  5,00
Mrs. E. A. Briggs, Kingston  ......;  75
Mrs. L, P. Whiting; ditto      50
Otis Eastman ....u........ .....;  25
C. B. Huyghue, St. John, N.B  1,00
Lucy James, Danielsonville, Copn  6,85
Mrs. A. S. Holyoke, Mass......    1,00
Miles Sprague    % 50
Mary M. Lincoln, Westfield, Mass  60
Wm A. Atkins, Provinc'etowo, Mass. .‘.....’...v.. 5,00
Friend     , 50
Mrs. Ohas, Baldwin-, Fayvllle, Mass.'  5,00
Mis H. Smith, Boston Highlands, Mass  1,85.
J. Mayo, Waltham, Mass...  2,00
A. M Gaffleld, ditto   2,00
Mary McGarr. Pittsburg, Pa.-..    25
Mrs; Davis, Watertown, Mass    1,00
Isaac and D. W. Wright, Harvard, Mass  2,00
Sarah W. Sieysart,'Lowell. M&ss.  ;...'.  I 85
Mrs. A. M. Stone, Cincinvati. Ohio    1,00
Mrs. A. L. Pratt, New Haven, Conn.   I 2,00
Boger Shagretm   , . 1,00
Hutchins Wright, Waterloo  < 85
S. T. Spaulding, Dunstable, Mass  j 83.
Samuel Smart, Willoughby, Ohio    2,00
Spiritualists’ Defence Fund continued.
dols.
Joseph-Dimmock, Stonington; Conn  2,00
Mrs. A. F. Bennett, Stowe, Vt  1,00
Jpl)n Tebfjs, Brooklyn, N. Y.     1,00
Bobert Kerr Elliott, Live Oak, Fla   3,00
Geo. Mailing, Bladensburg, Md;    1,00
Thos. Lees, Cleveland, Ohio  1,50
Mrs. Hannah Lees, Oleveland, Ohio   75
Jas. Lawrence, ditto       3,00
Geo. Bose, ditto      1,00
Esther McKay, ditto    60
Nancy M.Tibbols, ditto. 25
Geo. Sykes, ditto     1,00
Ohas. Mason, ditto ....."    1,00
Wm. Bich, ditto       50
John Madden, ditto....    50
B. T. Jones, Utica, N. Y    1,00
S. C. Moses, Mendota, 111..  2,00
Bichard Boberts, Washington, D. O    1,00
Mrs. H. H. Handy, Fredonia, N. Y  50
B. L. Wade, Jefferson, Ohio   10,00
Mrs. Eliza Eastman, Concord, N. H   1,00
M. H. W., New Orleans, La   1,00
C. E. Brooklyn, N. Y     2,00
F. H. B., ditto  . 50
T. H. B.   1  60
Mrs. E. A. P      1,00
Ohas. W. Spaulding, Norwich, Conn   1,00
Mrs. J. T. G      60
O. G. Brown, Shelbina, Mo  1,00
H. J. Brown, ditto        1,10
J. F. Hamilton, Berlin, Wis.   2,00
E, Man, Litchfield, Mich....  5,00
E, Nickerson, Burton Harbor, Mich .'  2,00
Dr. P. A. Connelly, Des Moines, la    1,00
E. M. Davis, ditto       1,00
Wm. Skinner, difro        1,00
Geo. Sly,‘ditto     1,00
1 N. E. Mulford, Madison, N. J     1,00
Calven Westover, Oxford, N. Y.., ■  10,00
Friends, Charlotte, Mich      2,60
David McArthur, Amsterdam, N. Y.    1,00
F. Stevenson      60
Mrs. Sarah Drake, Bloomington, 111 „....  60
“ A. B.,” Maine'     1,00
E. W. Parker.   *  35
J. L. Willson, Sugar Loaf, Col....1,..    1.00
John Colby, ditto...............'..........;.....,...;....'.. 1,00
Ira Copeland, Enfield, N. H.        1,00
Wm. G. Dennison, ditto ...7....  1.00
S. G. N. Millerton, N. Y ' 2,00
E. B. Whitirg, New Haven,.Conn; •   5,00
Mrs. Hhry Bell, W. Philadelphia, Pa    85
H. W. Ballard, Malone, N. Y.    2,00
JohnKyan, Waterford, N. Y ......' v.  1,00
J. H. Shedd, Hardwick, Vt..   1,00
An Investigator            1,00
Henry G. Post, Orange, N. J.    1.00
A Friend to the Cause of Spirimalism   1,50
Satnl/N. Stillman, New Brunswick, N. J  1,00
T. T. Baker, Marion Ohio    1,00
W. M. 0     6,00
C. B. Bogers..,.,,       1,00
P. W         50
John Bobbins       1,00
Dr. Bhodes    1,00
In the Press.
A SHOBT ESSAY,
PEACE OR WAR?—An Appeal to the
Women of Great Britain arid Ireland, by A Cornish-
woman. This'Essay has received the approval of the Secretary
of the Peace and Arbitration Society; and the Authoress,
earnestly desirous of c’rculating it broadcast, respectfully
invites all friends-of the cause to send their orders to her
Publishers in advance, in order that a large edition may be
printed.—Price 6d.; free by post for 6Jd.; one dozen, 4s.; for
gratuituous distribution, 100 copies half price. Messrs. Heard
aad Sons, Truro; or Messrs. Gill and Son, Penryn, Cornwall.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
* OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GEEAT BUSSELL STEEET, BLO JMSBURY, LONDON.
This orgarisation, comprising several hundred mem hers,
has public offices, a reading-room and libiary, with a secretary
in attendance to receive .visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can the1'attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Leigh, spiritualists* association
MEETING BOOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Boom, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by U. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose,the wbolo of his
private Hbrary,' consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by tho
gift or Ipan of hooks, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly SO.OOu, and very little
is known, of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler; 157,. Bute-road, Cardiff.
P
R1ZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale,"and may
be obtained at the Booms of the Association, 38, Great Busseli-
strtet, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is.ljd.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULBWOOD’S-REJJTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Bespectfully announce that,they,execute ALL descriptions of
Printing.* Estlmates'fOrwarded oh application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Full wood’s Bents, High Holborn,
. in the Parish of < St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr. London, and published by E, W, Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.G,
