Rz«t6TSftB0 19 A. NHW3PA?5a,
Cfje gitos^apr rmuuxki) tuiljj 3puUtiahsm in 6nai §x‘iiaht.
THE “SPIRITUALIST" is regularly oh Sale at the following places LONDON : u, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE; 37, Rue Florimont,
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzpg, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
*4, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal" Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 219.——(VOL. IX.—No. 14.) LONDON: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
foments.
Mr. Manton’s Speech in Defence of Dr. Slade  157
Evidence in Defence of Dr. SladeThe Testimony of Mr.
Serjeant Oox—Evidence of Mr. A. R. Wallace, Presi¬
dent of the Biological Section of the Bi itish Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science—Evidence of Dr.
George Wjld—Evidence of Mr. George O. Joad—
Evidence of Mr. Algernon Joy, M.Inst.O.E.—Evidence
of Mr Geoffrey Simmons     160
Dr. Slade Sentenced to Three Months’ Hard Labour on
the Assertions of Messrs. Lankester and Donkin 162
Greek Text obtained through Dr. Slade. By the Hon.
Robert Dale Owen, formerly American Minister at the
Conn of Naples -   162
Spiritualists’Defence Fund     ... ... 163
Testimonial to Andrew Jackson Davis    163
Letters about Dr. Slade:—An American Lawyer on Dr.
Slade’s vrediumship—A Letter from Miss Slade—Mr.
Hensleigh Wedgwood on Dr. Slade’s Mediumship—
Slate Writing in Dr. Slade’s presence—A Letter from
the Editor of The Spectator ...     165
Serious Danger Averted by a Spirit Message  166
The National Association of Spiritualists:—The Slade Case
Appeal   ' 167
The Slade Prosecution        167
Paragraphs:—Dr. Monck, 163; Spiritualist Discussion Meet¬
ings, 163; Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces  168
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethici #/
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
XSTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, ana is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those wh»
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. 0. E- Varley, C.E, F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, Out has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countesa of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S.;’ Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dal* Owen,(formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr, George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent’ (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall- Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M Di nphy,
Barnster-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edm.);
Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the • Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
hury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Marthese; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United'Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiriioalisi Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
ciown for_the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixperice for every ten words in additioi} Ten initial letters or
figures.' count as one word. Displayed. Advertisements Fiv*
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ’’ is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison, 38, Great Bussell-street,
LohRon; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morfiih'g. • All communications for the Literary Department should
be addaess'ed to the Editor.
No notice,is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist '’ will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’S. II, Ave Maria-lane, London,
£.0.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
(Entrance in Woburn Street.)
Agenda for November, 1876.
Wednesday, 1st.—Soiree at 38, Great Russell Street, at
6.30 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
Friday, ZrcL—Seance Committee at 6 p m.
„ Experimental Research Commute, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 6th.—Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m. Admis¬
sion free to members and friends.
Friday, 10th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.89
p.m.
Tuesday, 14fh.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting at 6 80 p.m.
Wednesday, Vbth.—Mr Blackburn’s Seance, Mr. Williams,
medium, at 7.30 p m.
Friday, 17fA—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.S0
p.m.
Monday, 20fh.—House and Offices Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Soiree Committee at 6.30 p.m.
„ Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m.
Thursday, 23rd.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, Mr. W. Eglinton,
medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Friday, 24<A—Library Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Experimental Research Committee, at 6.39
p.m.
Thursday, 60th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance. Mr. W. Eglinton,
medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances are free to inquirers, who must be
recommended by a member, or apply personally to the Secre¬
tary. As there is a great demand for tickets, and the numbers
are strictly limited, it is necessary to apply some time in
advance.
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £29; the second of £10, for the best aud
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
ail foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom de plum* of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent In, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publicadon, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. Price Is. 1 Jd., post free.
l^TEW JERUSALEM TEMPLE, Bolton-
_Lv street, Salford, On Sunday next, November 5th, TWO
SERMONS will be preached in the above church by GEORGE
Sexton, M.A., LL.D., the morning at 10.30, “ Ideals, and their
Realisation in the Life of the Individual.” Evening at 6.30,
“ Religion Essential to Humanity.”
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances. &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
g p.m.; subscribers only
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any hooks and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 hooks and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of hooks, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the popu ation is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G. !
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS TESTI¬
MONIAL FUND.
English Committee.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
H. Collen. Esq.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq.
William Tebb, Esq.
William H. Harrison, Esq.
Sir Charles Tsham. Bart.
HenryD. Jeneken, Esq., M.R.I*
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Dr. George Sexton.
Honorary Treasurer:
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq., 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton,
Honorary Secretary:
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 72, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
List o? contributors to 3rd October, 1876.
£ s. 4.
O. B., per Benjamin Coleman (forwarded direct
to Mr. Green) ;   50 6 0
J. N. T. Martheze       25 0 0
Charles Blackburn   20 0 0
William Tebb       10 10 0
“Nicodemus”     10 10 0
Thomas Grant      10 10 0
Countess of Caithness        19 10 0
Alexander Oal-ier    5 0 0
P. R. Harrison  8 8 0
Mrs. Catherine Berry   2 2 0
N. Fabyan Dawe     2 2 0
James Bowman  2 0.0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart    110
Miss Ponder      110
S. C. Hall, F.S.A       110
W. R. T  110
H. Collen      10 9
R. Glendinning   10 9
William H. Harrison  I  10 0
Thomas Blyton i       10 0
A. C. Swinton         10 0
John Lament         10 0
Miss Kislingbury         0 10 6
T. S  0 10 0
Augustus Johnston  i  0 10 6
Algernon Joy       0 10 0
From a German  0 6 0
A. Gleudinning    0 6 0
Per Mr. James Burns’s list in The Medium and
Daybreak, 29th September, 1876, viz.:—
£ s. d.
Miss Jane Jennings   0 5 0
Mr. W. Jennison   10 0
Mr. Burns’s Lecture  2 4 5
N. V    0 5 0
A Grateful One   10 0
M. A. B    0 19 0
F. M         0 2 6
Mrs. Col. Boyd   0 10 0
Mrs. E. F. Eddy, of Boston  0 10 0
Col. P. Greek    110
Mr. Beckett  0 2 0
Mr. R. Wortley    ' 1 10 0
J. F. C    |  0 10 0
Dr. Thomas Hayle..'....   110
Mr. D. Richmond   0 6 0
Mr. D. Burgess   0 2 6 10 19 5
The Committee earnestly solicit further contributions to¬
wards this fund. Remittances can he forwarded either to Mr.
J. N. T. Martheze, the hon. treasurer, or to Mr. Thomas Blyton,
hon. sec.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts. Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCBOFT, Manager.
Just published, a New Song.
REMEMBRANCE (embossed title), 4s. in A
flat for contralto or baritone, and in O for soprano or
tenor. Woids by W. H. Parker. Sung by Miss Laura
Matthews, Miss Hellier, Mr. R. Odell, and Mr. Sidney Barber.
Also the Snowdrop Mazurka and Dewdrop Redowas (second
edition), each 3s., by the same composer. To he had of all
Music-sellers, and of the Author and Publisher, post free, at
half price. Copyrights reserved. A few second-hand piano¬
fortes for sale, from £5 to £18. N. Vickery, Professor of
Music, 9, Cambridge-terrace, Railton-road, Herne-hill, S.E.
TO INVALIDS AND OTHERS.
AN EXPERIENCED PHYSICIAN, prac¬
tically acquainted with all systems of Medicine, offers
a comfortable RESIDENCE to a Spiritualist, on moderate
terms, in a most salubrious locality, combining the advantages
of town and country, with view of the sea and pleasing inland
scenery. Apply to Dr. William Hitchman, 21, Marine-crescent,
Waterloo, near Liverpool.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 3, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF' '
SPIRITUALISTS.
(JSbtablished 1873.)
President.
Alexander C alder, Esq., J, Hereford-square.WestBrompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Char’es, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
ntz-Oerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-pnrk, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
GidCr J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hlU, Balham, S.W.
Hitcnman, William, M.K.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 82, Warwlck-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46. Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D , Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, IS, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
VFason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Adsfiead, W. P., Derby Bouse, Belper. I .
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd.,New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley .’Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
' Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, I, Cornwall Residences, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., T, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, K , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendlnning, A., 4, Castledlhe-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cohden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-ctescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
/ park, S.E. 
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley .Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs.. 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church.end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-Ikw, 9.6, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1,.King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reixren, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs. E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end,Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
rjuu, S E
8tra vhr:dge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbrldge, Mrs. G.N.. Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove^Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park,'*Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Waihouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., PosteRestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater; W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St, John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H,, 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin K. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbleden-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr, J, H. Andre. Mf. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nieholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
.Camp General de S M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Viseonde de Torres-Solkhot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St- Petersburg.
The Baron von Dlrckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 28, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mrae. de Veh, 26; Avenue des Chanaps-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S,A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappah, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea* East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmllian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lmdesay Richardson, M;D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Ruasell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq,, Kornerstrasse 2b, Letpsic, Germany.”
W.- H. Terry, Esq.,. 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia. r
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq ,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E,-Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinteu-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U^.A.
M.F. Ciavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J, Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Snear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., *,Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassomplerre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue da Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de l Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-plaue,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
MdHe. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S;A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, <4, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Newlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forsoher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. 0. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2*, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—FI Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Spciedad;Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—'Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lament, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or inch of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July,-1876.  .    | I
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Oolby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile or soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT*
UALIS 4 EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition Price 8s.
London Simbkin, Marshall & Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhym« Book" will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained £00 subscribers at £s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tayistock-square, W,0,
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usual. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared, to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MRS. BURKE is about to hold PUBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at So’clock; to commence on Friday, tne loth
inst. Ei W.'Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance for refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will he held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee £s.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 6 o’clock. 173, Rue St HononS,
Paris.
MEDIUMSHIP; ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Good chambers
APARTMENTS to LET.
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
or FURNISHED
Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6£
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
Furnished apartments to let,
consisting of pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Rail and Omnibus. O. P., 102, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
TAKEN AWAY BY MISTAKE from the
Ladies’ Cloak Room, at 38, Great Russell-street, on
Wednesday Evening, October 4th, a DOUBLE-GLASS SMEL¬
LING-BOTTLE, with Gilt Stoppers, much valued by the
Owner. If found, it is requested that the same may be left in
charge of the Secretary, at the Reading Room, 38, Great
Russell-street.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
kJ CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.; W. H,
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyoho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Society
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interestivg
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, Ac., Ac. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, jet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the s trongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of- Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
& uf % of % unit of j!jra;tluaK$M.
Yotu^E KipfE. Kumber Fourteen.
LONDON, FRIDA*Y, NOVEMBER 3rd, 1876.
MR. MUNTON’S SPEECH IN DEFENCE OF DR. SLADE.
The excellent speech made by Mr. F. K. Munton, solicitor,
in defence of Dr. Slade, at Bow-street Police-court last
Saturday, is appended, and as the Slade case has had no
parallel since the days of Galileo, the following utterances
will live in history:—
Mr. Munton, on rising to address the magistrate in
defence of Dr. Slade, said that in presenting this part of
the case it was extremely desirable that they should clearly
understand what the specific accusation was. The summons
charged that the defendant unlawfully used certain subtle
craft, means, and devices, to deceive and impose on certain
of her Majesty’s subjects—to wit, E. Ray Lankester, T. J.
Oldham, Henry Sidgwick, R. H. Hutton, Edmund Gurney,
and W. B. Carpenter. The magistrate had been good
enough to say at an earlier stage of the case that he
was placed in a very difficult position as an advocate.
But if he was so then, he was in a doubly difficult position
now; because, while the statements of Professor Lankester
and Dr. Donkin were alone within the scope of his observa¬
tions under this particular summons, evidence of another
character had gone forth to the world, which he had no oppor¬
tunity of correcting. Although he did not complain of the dis¬
charge of his client on the summons for conspiracy, he could
not help saying that he much regretted that he had no oppor¬
tunity of severely commenting on the evidence of Mr.
Maskelyne and Mr. Algernon Clarke. He hoped, however,
he might be excused for making one remark as to
Mr. Maskelyne, who volunteered the statement that the
table must have been altered since it was last used,
whereas the evidence of the man who made the table dis¬
tinctly proved that both Slade and Simmons were innocent
of any such thing: he (Mr. Munton) therefore indignantly
repudiated so unwarrantable an assertion on the part of Mr.
Maskelyne. If the complainant’s solicitor had succeeded
in establishing the case he had put forward in his opening
speech, he should have some difficulty in asking the magis¬
trate to say that Dr. Slade was wholly innocent; but such
case was by no means established. Mr. Lewis started by
stating deliberately that the defendant had advertised to the
world that he could communicate with departed spirits.
Now, although the magistrate had said thathe was not affected
by what was stated in an opening speech unless it were
proved in evidence; and he, with his large experience, could
do that, the public could not. The statement in question
had gone forth to the world, and he was bound, therefore,
to say that it was absolutely untrue. Never, by advertise¬
ment or otherwise, had Dr. Slade u invited persons, assuring
them he could communicate with departed spirits,” as
had been asserted; and it would be seen, from the evidence of
Professor Lankester himself, that there was not the slightest
pretence for importing that assertion into the case. The
prosecutor admitted in the witness-box that U he went to see
certain phenomena of which he had been informed, and
he wished to ascertain the cause.” Two or three other
important matters had been incorrectly conveyed to the
mind of the Court which materially affected Mr. Slade.
Substantially, the charge was that of slate writing,
and it was stated that : this writing was produced *
either by the liberated fingers of the hand by which the
slate was being held, or in another way, which Mr. Lewis
attempted to explain by an experiment of his own,
of which it might be said that it was chiefly remark¬
able because it did not succeed. (Laughter.) Neither
Professor Lankester nor Dr. Donkin agreed with or endorsed
the statement of their solicitor. Indeed, the former witness,
in cross-examination, distinctly admitted that Mr. Lewis’s
I experiments did not deal with what he witnessed at Bedford-
; place. Another important statement made by Mr. Lewis,
| was that his clients positively saw the writing being done,
| whereas the evidence clearly established the fact that they
| did not see the writing being done. No doubt, if two
! gentlemen had come and said thay saw the writing- being
| done, it would have been useless to call 200 to say they
i were present on other occasions, and did not see it;
•j but it transpired that the writing was never seen from
j the beginning to the end. It might be conjectured, it might
I be strongly suspicious, but it did not go beyond conjecture,
| and that, he contended, made all the difference in the
| charge against the defendant. At the assizes, where the
j learned magistrate formerly practised at the bar, the repu-
! tation of counsel was much enhanced if he could get the
I judge to believe that whenever he made a statement in
| opening a case, he would be more or less able to prove what
| he said. "When a solicitor of the reputation of Mr. Lewis
| made a statement, and the gentlemen of the press sent it
| forth from one end of the kingdom to the other, it was
] accepted by many of the public as equivalent to evidence,
j and it was extremely difficult to get rid of an impression
| of that kind. When the magistrate came to look at the actual
| testimony, he (Mr. Munton) believed he would be of opinion
j that no case was ever opened with so many assertions of fact
j which had in the result so miserably failed as regards proof.
| In dealing with the evidence of Professor Lankester, he was
| beset with considerable difficulty. The professor was un-
! doubtedly a gentleman of distinguished position, but the
| course which ne had taken in that case was entirely unjusti-
| fiable. He did not mean to say that either he or Dr.
Donkin had stated what they did not believe, but the Court
i must compare the statements made by them on different
occasions, and see how far they agreed. He (Mr. Munton)
| took on himself the responsibility of having brought the
| table into court. Much had been made of his suggestion
| that it was unnecessary to impound it, the extremely simple
j character of the article making it somewhat difficult to find a
I substitute at a moment’s notice; but during the month it
j had been in court, accessible to Mr. Lewis and the witnesses,
1 nothing whatever had been done to prove that it was
I a trick table, unless it were by showing that it had one
i bracket instead of two. It would be shown that in the
| interval Dr. Slade had borrowed a domestic table, and
| although open to some objection for want of the simplicity
II characterising the table made for the purpose, successful
| sittings had been held as heretofore. Now in the matter of
L slate writing it was to be remembered that whatever might
j be the cause of its production, such writing, waa a].ways found
| where there was some shade.
Mr. Flowers—A little darkness.
Mr. Munton said he had not used the word darkness be-
j cause he was afraid that if he had done so he would have
| elicited a laugh. His worship would see (Mr. Munton went
I on to say) from the evidence of the prosecutor that the pro-
| cess was nearly invariable as to the movement of the slate,
j It was taken by Slade, placed underneath the table, and
| subsequently against the flap. He submitted that it was
I perfectly obvious, therefore, why a table should be ordered to
1 be made in the way the table in question was made. If a
I table were used with a frame all the way round it the
I persons who went to witness these manifestations would at
! once draw attention to the fact that a table of that descrip-
! tion—that was, a table having the framework all round—was
j much more convenient for having the slate pressed against
j it. Besides, during the manifestations the table was fre-
| quently struck heavily ; it was tilted up previous to its being
I examined by visitors; and altogether it met with rough
i usage, and for that reason it was desirable it should be un-
158
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 3, 1876.
usually strong. He contended that the fact of there being
only one bar to support the flap of the table was evidence of j
its extreme simplicity. Another point had been raised by j
Professor Lankester, and that was that the table had no
frame; but when pressed on. this subject .the prosecutor
ultimately confined himself to the statement that there was
no frame round the flap, which of course everybody knew.
The fact was that Professor Lankester had had many pre¬
conceived ideas in connection with this case; he had an idea
there was no frame there, and he had resolved if he could to j
make good his assertion to that effect. He (Mr. Munton) j
thought that he had a right to complain of the answer which
Professor Lankester gave him when he asked him if he had j
any reason to suppose that (the table produced) was the I
table used. The reply was, “ I have no reason to suppose that j
it is.” This showed the manner in which the dispute was I
approached. As a fact, all the importance which was |
attached to the table not having any frame had melted into j
thin air. As regarded that unwarrantable imputation by Mr.
Maskelyne, that it was a trick table, and had been altered
since it was last used, the evidence of the maker of the j
table called by Mr. Lewis showed not only that the table j
had not been in any way altered since it left his establish- I
ment, but that in reality it had a framework round the legs j
one inch deeper than an ordinary Pembroke table. He I
charged Professor Lankester (no doubt he did it with the j
best intention) with having endeavoured in his evidence to |
reconcile the facts to his theory. In the description he origi¬
nally wrote to the newspapers, he stated that the first short j
message—vizi, “Iam here to aid you, Allie,” was written on j
the under surface of the slate—a statement he varied in his j
evidence.
Mr. Lewis complained that Mr. Munton was not fairly re- j
presenting the evidence of Professor Lankester.
Mr. Flowers deprecated such interruptions, observing that j
he should compare, the different statements.
Mr. Munton said he liked to be corrected, particularly I
when he was right. (Laughter.) He said he was dealing ]
with what he extracted from Professor Lankester in cross- «j
examination, which he would substantiate by reference to j
the shorthand writer’s notes. Mr. Munton proceeded to
read the letter which Professor Lankester wrote to the news- I
papers, which mtdr alia contained the following description
of his seance:—
Slade’s chief “ manifestation” is of this kind—The witness and Slade
being alone in an ordinary well-lit sitting room, Slade produces a common j
slate and a small piece of slate pencil, which are laid on the simple four- j
legged table, at one corner of which the witness and Slade are seated., |
Slade then shows the witness that there is no writing on either side of I
the slate. He then places the slate horizontally close against the table
and below it, pressing the slate against the table, the little bit of slate
pencil being supposed to be between the slate and the flat under surface
of the table. The slate is so closely applied to the table that no hand j
or finger could possibly get between them in order to write. A noise as
of writing is now heard proceeding from the slate, which is held by
Slade or by the witness—the spirit is supposed to be at work. The
slate is then removed, and a message is found written either on the
undersurface of the slate or on the surface which was facing the lower,
surface of the table, I watched Slade very closely during these proceed- j
ings, which were repeated several times during my interview last |
Monday, paying no attention to the raps, gentle kicks, and movements |
of the table, of wlridi’I will say nothing farther than that they were all |
such as could be readily produced by the medium's legs and feet. I
simulated considerable agitation and an ardent belief in the mysterious
nature of what I saw and heard. At the same time I was utterly
astounded to find the strongest reason to believe that, with the Excep¬
tion of the first message, which was written by Slade underneath the
slate, with (I believe) one finger of the hand which was holding the slate,-
the rest of the messages, which were longer and better written, were i
coolly indited on the slate by Slade while it was resting on his knee,
concealed from my view by the edge of the table, and that the slate was
subsequently placed by him in the position where the spirit-writing was
to take place with the message already written upon it. I was led to j
form this hypothesis by noting the delay which always occurred between j
my being shown the slate with both sides clean and the placing of the
slate against the table or over my head for the purpose of receiving the
spirit-writing, which was then heard proceeding with the usual sound
of-scratching on a slate. This delay did not occur when Slade wrote
with the finger of the hand by which he held the slate.
That was what Professor Lankester wrote to the paper on the
very day of his second interview with Slade. He stated in |
cross-examination that he made notes-after he had been with
Dr. Slade on the first occasion; that he continued the notes; j
on the second occasion, and that after writing his letter he
destroyed his notes. This was very much to ho regretted, as> :
11 now the notes could not be produced and compared with the
j letter. Mr. Munton said that if there were any document
i connected with this case he should particularly like to have
| seen it was these identical notes. In their absence, how-
I ever, it must be presumed that the letter was an accurate
ij description of the notes. When Professor Lankester came
![ into court, he did not endorse his solicitor’s statement re-
I speoting the writing with the liberated fingers. He owned
[ that he was in great doubt; but, with the same spirit which
had actuated him throughout, he was for proving that all he
had done and said was consistent; however, he was obliged
i to say in the witness-box, “ I am not sure on which side it was
written.” The further cross-examination of the prosecutor with
the view to demonstrating his imperfect observations, and the
variable character of his evidence at length elicited the fol¬
lowing astounding answer “ I think the *1 believe’ qualifies
the whole statement as to the writing on the under side of
the slate—I intended it so to do.” It is incredible that Pro¬
fessor Lankester, with his high education, could seriously
mean to contend that this is the grammatical construc¬
tion of his language; indeed, any schoolboy would know it
to be otherwise. On the whole he (Mr. Munton) argued
that it was clear that Professor Lankester was in consider¬
able doubt as to what really took place, and, therefore, his
evidence on the point was not reliable. When Professor
Lankester was being cross-examined as to not having said
. in his examination in chief that he heard the low sound of
| writing on the knee as to a particular message, Mr. Lewis
| with that kind assistance which distinguishes him when he
wishes to help his own witness—(laughter)—got up and said
| that he had not taken his client through each message in
i detail and that it must be assumed that what had been said
j in one case equally applied to the others, a suggestion Pro-
| fessor Lankester fell into, but unfortunately on comparing
that statement with his letter to the Times it turned out as
j a fact that he there only spoke of having heard this writing
| on three several occasions out of five messages thus farther
I showing (Mr. Munton said) the very imperfect observations
I made. He contended that the evidence of Professor Lan-
j kester was not reliable; the statement that he had only
I heard noises of writing on three occasions was an ad¬
mission that on the two other occasions he did not hear the
! writing, and one could not avoid the conclusion that,
| taking the circumstances altogether, Professor Lankester
1 must have been mistaken. Dr. Donkin’s statements were
| treated in the same light of doubt by Mr. Munton, who
| urged the point that when Dr. Donkin was in the witness-
| box he admitted that the forcible way in which he had ex-
pressed himself in the newspaper was in consequence of his
belief that it was necessary when writing to the public.
| (Laughter.) After noticing other discrepancies in Pro-
| fessor Lankester’s evidence, Mr. Munton came to what
| he described as the final and important point in the charge
j against Slade—that was, the occasion when Mr. Lewis said
I Professor Lankester saw the writing. It was when he had Dr.
| Donkin with him. But it was necessary to consider what took
| place on the first and second interviews. Professor Lankester
| said he told Dr. Donkin what his theory as to the first mes-
| sage was, and Dr. Donkin endorsed the statement; but Dr.
| Donkin could not vouch that the theory was correct, though
| he resolved to write to the newspapers thereon. He carried it
| further still, because he said that the first message was not
only written on the under surface, but that it was written
! in a peculiar way. Now, as to the final message,
| it was necessary that this gentleman should establish
to the public, in order to make the statement complete,
that Slade had stated at the time the scratching was heard
that the slate was free from writing. Dr. Donkin said in
his letter, “ let especial notice be given to the fact that at
this moment the slate was said to be free from writing,” but
when he was in the witness box it turned out that it was
only some general expression. The evidence of both Dr.
Donkin and Professor Lankester did not go to facts, but was
merely inference and conjecture. Professor Lankester said
that he snatched the slate before it had been in position a
fraction E of a second. He (Mr. Munton) was not prepared
to say that the writing could not have been produced in the
fraction of a second, but there was nothing to show that the
“ writing was to occur at the identical moment when the slate -
touched the table. What he meant to say was that Slade
did not necessarily know when the writing actually oc¬
curred, but that it occurred between the moment when he
commenced to move the slate and the time it was actually
seized, and that that writing was produced by strange agencies.
That Professor Lankester had shown a desire to jump to a
conclusion was clear, but if it could be established that Dr.
Slade or any other medium was an impostor he (Mr.
Munton) would not stand there to shield him; but he de¬
sired that they should have more substantial evidence before
convicting. When the examination was going on a dis¬
cussion arose as to the interval of time, and Professor Lan¬
kester wished it to be understood that there was a very slight
interval; but between the time the slate was put under the
table and the time it was snatched by Professor Lankester,
Dr. Slade said, “The spirits are a long time coming,”
and that statement alone was indicative of some time
having elapsed. It was now necessary to consider some
two or three other points in the evidence. He (Mr.
Munton) attached great importance to anything that showed
motive, and he thought that he would be able to establish
the fact that Professor Lankester had grave motive in doing
what he had done. Professor Lankester was a member of
the British Association, and the question of the phenomena
generally had been discussed at the meeting of that
body, between the time of the first and second visit to
Dr. Slade. It was evident that Professor Lankester
strongly disapproved of what had taken place at the associa¬
tion, and he contended that, in the answers the Professor
had given in evidence, he had not dealt fairly on the
subject of that paper, having stated that he had not read
the paper, when in fact he had read an abstract of it. Pro¬
fessor Lankester had been prejudiced when he went to
Slade’s, and had made up his mind, if he could, to settle in
twenty minutes what his seniors had been trying to find out
for twenty years. Nay, Professor Lankester had gone
further, and had insulted men who were not entitled to be
treated in such a way by saying that it was astonishing how
people “apparently sane” could believe in anything of
this kind. All this clearly proved prejudice on the part of
Dr. Lankester.
Mr. Lewis said he wished Mr. Munton would remember
that the principal prosecutor here was not “ Dr.” Lankester,
but “ Professor” Lankester. Mr. Munton’s own client was
the “ doctor.” (Laughter.)
Mr. Munton said that with so many doctors in the case one
occasionally got into a little confusion. (Laughter.)
Mr. Lewis said he had been listening for three-quarters of
of an hour without hearing anything but abuse of Professor
Lankester, and it was no wonder if one became a little im¬
patient.
Mr. Flowers said he did not think it was more than any
gentleman who came to that court must expect. He noticed
Professor Lankester seemed to bear up pretty well.
(Ljaughter.)
Mr. Munton said that he must be allowed to proceed in his
own way, and that he would not be interrupted by Mr. Lewis.
Now what did Professor Lankester do after his visits to
Blade ? He took out summonses in which he inserted the
names of several gentlemen without their consent, without
ascertaining whether in using their names he had or had not
their approval. He had no right to include such names
as he did without authority. It went through the country
like wildfire that Dr. Carpenter’s name, which was one of
great weight, was in the summons, and the Professor’s course
in that respect showed that he was determined to succeed in
his object. Everybody now knew that Dr. Carpenter had
publicly repudiated any connection with these magisterial
proceedings. His worship had once indicated that he thought
there was a primd facie case against Slade; but he submitted
that, in a charge of this sort, nothing short of distinct and
positive evidence should satisfy his worship that the case had
been made out. Why did not the prosecutor take the very
simple course of procuring absolute testimony of the so-called
imposture by looking under the table on one of the occasions
when he alleged he heard the fraudulent writing ? The
theory of the defence was that the writing which occurred
on all these occasions was not written by Slade; and that the
defendant did not know how messages were written, except
to this extent, that from surrounding circumstances, and
inquiry into the subject, Slade’s belief was, in the absence
of any evidence to the contrary, that they were written in
the mode which he had explained. He (Mr. Munton) did
not contend for a moment that the writing discovered by
Professor Lankester was necessarily the work of a departed
spirit; but there was unmistakable evidence to show
that the phenomena were attributable to some cause other
than imposture. What the force was, what the agencies
at work,- he would not attempt to say, and many of
the witnesses whom, subject to the approval of the
learned magistrate, he would produce, would testify their
belief in the phenomena, whilst utterly rejecting the
“ Spiritualist theory.” It was admitted by those who under¬
stood the subject, that the messages obtained were not
trustworthy as to identity. He (Mr. Munton) was not a
Spiritualist himself, but he had the highest respect for those
who had seen their way to come to that solution of the
inquiry. Large numbers of persons were agreed on the
premisses, but differed in drawing conclusions. He should
produce Mr. Simmons as a witness to show the bonaficles of
Dr. Slade, to show that he was not the man whom he had
been represented to be by the prosecution, to explain how he
came to be called “ Dr.,” to give evidence as to his career for
years past, and to show that he was an entirely innocent agent
in these manifestations. It had been strongly urged upon him
(Mr. Munton), though he did not personally vouch it, that
messages given at Dr. Slade’s or elsewhere were very often
affected by the state of mind of the sitter; that if
persons went to detect, gave false names, or such like,
it was very likely they would get false messages. That
might appear an astounding proposition, but he could call
gentlemen of the highest respectability, who had tested
that matter. Although slate writing was the point principally
dealt with in this case, it was only one of a hundred well-
attested phenomena. Many of these things, too, occurred in
private families, where fraud was almost impossible, and
there was abundant testimony on the subject from those who
had everything to lose, and nothing to gain in mixing them¬
selves up with the controversy. Mr. Munton argued that his
worship might as well shut his eyes to the noonday sun, as
to ignore these facts, which ought to be honestly inquired
into. From Galileo downwards the pioneers of any new
movement which clashed with the orthodox prejudices of the
day, had invariably been persecuted. What was scorned and
sneered at to-day, might be accepted as truth to-morrow. It
had been said by Mr. Lewis in his opening that seances of this
kind might impose upon the young and weak-minded.
But there was no pretence for making such a representation
as that in this case. Why, the people who went to see Slade
were the foremost men of the day, among others, Professor
Lankester himself. (Laughter.) There were, no doubt, some
credulous people who believed anything tha,t was told them,
irrespective of the source of information. On the other hand,
there were incredulous persons who believed nothing beyond
their own standard of intelligence; and there was a third class
who never thought for themselves, but who accepted anything
which they were taught, or which was the fashion of the hour.
But the most dangerous class of all with regard to the ques¬
tion was that to which Professor Lankester belonged—men
of ability, to whose opinions great importance was attached
throughout the country, and who, having preconceived ideas,
advanced them in a manner which tended to prevent proper
and patient inquiry. He (Mr. Munton) was always re¬
luctant to say anything in court or elsewhere about re¬
ligious belief; but there were gentlemen who held what
were called materialistic views — “scientific materialism,
which rejected every conception of the supernatural.”
He did not say that this applied to the prosecutor,
but he had a book in his pocket in which Professor Lan-
kester’s name appeared very prominently on the title-page,
and he had quoted these words from that book. He did
not contend that Professor Lankester would do anything
that he believed to be wrong, but what he meant was that
his mind led him in a particular direction, that he sought out
evidence to support a theory, involuntarily dovetailing his
facts, and that his preconceived ideas led him to seize the
shadow, and leave the substance behind, as was the case in
this particular inquiry. In the course of the proceedings he,
Nov. 3, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. W
160
Nov. 8, 1876.
T’HE SPIRITUALIST?.
(Mr. Munton) had been rebuked for attempting to designate
Professor Lankester as a “ skilled observer.” He now apolo¬
gised for using the expression, as he had come to the conclu¬
sion that that gentleman in this particular business had
shown himself to be a very unskilled observer. (Laughter.)
Referring to the objections frequently raised to “ paid
mediums,” Mr. Munton said that unfortunately the persons
gifted with those powers were not generally rich, and could
not, therefore, afford to be philanthropists; besides which
they were as much entitled to be paid for their services as
either Mr. Lewis or himself.
Mr. Flowers — But yours are “ material” services.
(Laughter.)
Mr. Munton—Yes. But the clergy are paid, and their
services can hardly be said to be “ material.” He urged
that numbers of eminent persons in this country accepted
the truth of the phenomena, and that it was a subject for
honest investigatipn, and not to be crushed by an endeavour
to strain the provisions of the Vagrant Act, which was
passed with the view of protecting ignorant persons from j
1 fortune tellers,” and had no more real application to this |
new science than to anything which might be discovered
fifty years hence. The fourth section of the Act was ap¬
parently that under which the summons was issued. Shortly
set forth, it dealt with “ every person pretending or professing
to tell fortunes, or using any subtle craft, means, or devices
by palmistry or otherwise to deceive or impose on any of
Her Majesty’s subjects.” Now, there was no such thing as
craft and device, except so far as they related to the: words
which went before, and these words must be taken ejusdem
generis with the words ffi telling fortunes” and u palmistry.”
No one said that Slade pretended to tell fortunes, while
it was admitted that it had nothing to do with palmistry.
Mr. Lewis begged to be understood as admitting nothing
of the sort.
Mr. Munton-—There was not a pretence that it had any¬
thing to do with palmistry..
Mr. Lewis—The whole evidence went to show that it was
done by sleight of hand and palmistry.
Mr. Munton—What was meant by palmistry ?
Mr. Lewis—Something done with the palm of the hand.
Mr. Munton said he would not suppose Mr. Lewis was
serious; indeed, it could not be argued that because a
man was. unable to hold a slate under the table without
taking the palm of his hand with him that that had any¬
thing to do with palmistry within the well-known meaning
of that term. Another point was the intention to defraud
by false pretences, but there was no evidence of false pre¬
tences. If Professor Lankester or Dr. Donkin had said, “ I
paid a pound to Simmons because I believed what Slade said,”
he (Mr. Munton) might have felt himself in a different
position, but a false pretence in law must, tp make it
complete, be not only false as a fact, but be believed
in and relied on by the person paying his money. All
the witnesses said was, “We should not have paid our
money, if we had known it was conjuring.” What he
submitted, then, was that there was no evidence
whatever that any representations were made by Slade
to those gentleman on the faith of which they had
parted with their money. Consequently, apart from other
circumstances, there was no false pretence within the
meaning of the law, and that part of the case failed
entirely. With regard to Dr. Slade, he was an utter
stranger in this country; he came here on his way to
Russia to fulfil an engagement there under distinguished
scientific auspices, and he (Mr. Munton) thought it specially
hard that Slade, a foreigner, should be selected for prosecu¬
tion when there were Englishmen, with their friends around
them who could have been equally, well proceeded against
if there were any question to raise. Whatever was the
result at the trial, it could not fail to be most disastrous to
Dr. Slade. Before sitting down he would mention the names
of a few of. the large number of persons who had certified to
the genuineness of the phenomena—gentlemen of undoubted
position; for example: Archbishop Whateley, Mr. A. R.
Wallace (President of the Biological Section of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science), Lord Lindsay,
F.R.S., Mr. Gerald Massey, the Hon. Robert Dale Owen
(formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples), Captain
Bj F. Burton (the traveller), and Mr. Serjeant Cox. He did
not pretend that these gentlemen were Spiritualists, but they
had examined into the phenomena, and had no doubt as to
their genuineness. The subject had been so much inquired into
that there were some thirty newspapers in Europe and
America devoting themselves entirely to it, amongst them
The Spiritualist—a London journal that frequently con¬
tained very well-written articles of much interest, and which
inexperienced inquirers would do well to peruse. Mr. Munton
then concluded his “lengthy” speech, which had been listened
to throughout with great attention, saying that he earnestly
and confidently submitted to the magistrate that the charge
against Dr. Slade had wholly failed, and that his client
ought to go free. (Applause.)
EVIDENCE IN DEFENCE OF DE. SLADE.
THE TESTXMONT OP MR. SERJEANT COX.
Last Saturday, at Bow-street police-court, after the delivery of Mr.
Munton’s speech in defence of Dr. Slade, the following colloquy took
place:—
Mr. Munton was, he said, anxious to call Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr.
"Wallace, and another witness, upon this part of the case.
Mr. Flowers: If you will limit yourself to these witnesses, I have no
objection to them being called.
Mr. Munton: I intend to call four witnesses, who will not take more
than five minutes each.
Mr. Lewis: Will you dispose of your case to-day ?
Mr. Munton: I desire to call Mr. Serjeant Cox, and he is not here.
Mr. Flowers : Mr. Serjeant Cox will probably be the judge who will
try the case if you appeal from my decision.—The Court then adjourned
for half-an-hour.
Upon the Court re-assembling,
Mr. Munton (addressing Mr. Flowers) said: I have considered what
should be done in relation to the evidence of Mr. Serjeant Cox. I
should be sorry to cause an adjournment for that evidence. You have
spoken, sir, of reading a letter by the learned serjeant on the subject.
}j Might I ask whether that is the letter which he wrote as president of
(I the Psychological Society of Great Britain?
Ij Mr.Flowers: It is.
Ij Mr. Munton: Then if your worship will allow me to read the letter
U in question for what it is worth, I shall not call Serjeant Cox.
I [j Mr. Flowers: Very well; read the letter, if you please,
m Mr. Munton proceeded to read as follows the letter in question, which
m appeared in The Spiritualist oi August 11th:—
| (i Having undertaken to examine without prejudice or prepo ssession, and to report
(j faithfully, without favour, in a purely judicial spirit, any alleged psychological
Ilj phenomena that might be submitted to me as President of the Psychological
|)| Society of Great Britain, I narrate without comment what I witnessed at a sitting
!) | with Dr. Slade this afternoon.
i) I I sat alone with him, at three o’clock, in a room at 8,? Upper Bedford-place, Rus-
j /1 sell-square, into which the sun shone brightly, at a table about five feet by four,
Hi having four legs, no ledge below, and no cloth upon it. Dr. Slade sat at one side
Hi of this table, sideways, so that his legs and feet were not under the table, but his
i (I whole body being fully in my view as he faced me. I sat at the side, the corner of
Hi the table between us. As I sat I could see half-wayibelow the table, and by
ij! moving my head slightly, I corxld see the whole space below, which was wholly
i) • exposed in full daylight. An ordinary drawing-room chair was about six inches
m from the table on the opposite side, six feet from Dr. Slade. A heavy arm-chair
||j was in the corner of the room, about the same distance from him and from the
i (i table. A slate of the ordinary school size and a piece of slate pencil were upon
jii the table.
j(j Instantly upon taking our seats very loud rapping came upon the floor. This
,j (I was followed by a succession of furious blows upon the table, jarring my hands as
i (| they were laying upon it. These blows were repeated at any part of the table
Hi desired, by merely touching that spot with the finger, while the blows, as forcible
j > | as if given with a sledge hammer, were being made. Dr. Slade’s hands were on
j?; the table upon my hands, and his whole body to his feet was fully before my eyes.
i.( j I am certain that not a muscle, moved. Then he took the slate, after I had care-
ii( j fully inspected it, to be assured that no writing was upon it, and placing there a
j(! piece of slate pencil, the size of a small grain of wheat, he pressed the slate tightly
j i below but against the slab of the table. Presently I heard the sound as of writing
ll] on a slate. The slate was removed, and on it a zigzag line was drawn from end
HI to end.
At this moment the chair that I had described as standing by the table was
j) | lifted up to a level with the table, held in that position for several seconds, and
j (i then dropped to the floor. While the chair was so suspended in the air I carefully
i (j noted Dr. Slade. It was far beyond his reach. But his hands were under my
K i hands, and his feet were fully in view near my own on the side of the table oppo-
i (; site to that on which the chair had risen.
;) i While I was taking note of his position at this moment, a hand rudely grasped
j) i my knee on the opposite side to where Dr. Slade was seated, and his hands were
|) i still in mine on the table.
\)\ Blows of a more gentle kind upon the table, attended with a remarkable
!/j quivering of it, announced, as he said, that his wife was present, and desired
1) | the slate. After the slate had been carefully cleaned, it was laid upon the top
jfl of the table, with a like piece of pencil under it. Upon the slate he placed his
l* j right hand, and I placed my left hand, and with my other hand I held his left
Uj hand as it lay upon the table. As my hand lay upon the slate, I could feel,
Hi and I did also distinctly hear, something writing upon it. The communication
H | was evidently a. long one; but, before I report the result, I desire to note here a
|)i remarkable phenomenon, to my mind the most suggestive that attended this
’p) I experiment.
j(j It is necessary clearly to understand the position of the parties, therefore I
i (i repeat it.
Hj Dr. Slade and myself sat face to face. One hand of each of us was laid upon
Hi the slate. The side of,the slate that was being written upon was pressed by us
1)1 against the table. Our second hands were linked together and lay upon
;)| the table. While this position was preserved, the writing proceeded with¬
out pause. When Dr. Slade removed his hand from mine it ceased instantly, and
Nor. 3, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
161
as instantly was renewed when his hand and mine met. This experiment was j
repeated several times, and never failed. j1
Here, then, was a ohain or circle formed by my arms and body, and Dr. Slade’s ;1
arms and body, the slate being between ns, my hand at one end of it, his hand at !'
the other end, and between our hands, and upon the slate that connected them, !'
the writing was. When the chain was broken forthwith the writing ceased. i(
When the chain was re-formed the writing was at once resumed. The effect was i(
instantaneous. In this curious fact we must seek the clue to this psychological ji
mystery. _ ji
Some rapid rappings,’indicating' that the writing was finished, the slate was |<
lifted, and in a clear and perfectly distinct writing the following was read. It filled !1
the whole side of the slate:—
« Dear Seri.,—You are now investigating a subject that is worthy of all the !|
time you or any other man of mind can devote to its investigation. When man !{
can believe in this truth, it will in most cases make him a better man. This is our i<
object in coming to earth, to make man and woman better, wiser, and purer.—I am j<
truly, “A. W. Slade.”
While I was reading this a hand again grasped my knee furthest from Dr.
Slade, whose hands were at that moment holding the slate that I might copy the i
writing. As I wrote, a hand, which I saw distinctly, came from under the table, i
seized my waistcoat, and pulled it violently. j]
Seeing this I took the pencil with which I was copying the words, and laid it !<
at the edge of the table furthest from Dr. Slade, and far beyond his reach, the end i<
of the pencil projecting about two inches over the ledge. I asked if the hand ji
would take the pencil. Forthwith a hand came from under the table, seized the i1
pencil, and threw it upon the floor. I again asked that it Would pick up the |(
pencil and bring it to me. In a minute it was brought and put upon the table by j
my side. I saw the hand that brought it as distinctly as I could see my own. It
was a small hand, seemingly that of a woman. !(
Again the slate was cleaned and laid upon the table as before, my hand upon it. j i
In a few seconds the following sentence was written. Considerable power was ji
used in this writing, and I could distinctly feel the pressure of the pencil upon !■
the slate, and its motion as every word was written:— j
“ I am Dr. John Forbes. I was the Queen's physician. God bless you.
“J. Iorbbs.” i1
While I was reading this, the hand again came from under the table and seized
the sleeve of my coat, and tried to pull my arm down, but I resisted, and it dis- |i
appeared. Then it came up again, as if from my legs, and caught the eye-glass j
that was hanging from my neck, and opened it. During all these phenomena Dr. j
Slade’s hands were before me on the table, and his feet full in my view upon the ]
floor. The hand on each occasion came from the side of the table opposite to
where Dr. Slade was sitting. He was seated on my left, and the hand came and ]
seized me on my right leg, in a position impossible to him. The hand I saw was
not half the size of Dr. Slade’s hand. It touched my hand three times, and I j
could feel that it was warm, soft, and moist, and as solid and fleshly as my own. j
Again the slate was cleaned and held under the table tight against the wood, one
half of it projecting beyond the edge, so that I might be assured that it was
tightly pressed against the wood; but the slate was seized, and with great force
drawn away, and rapidly raised above me and placed upon my head. In this
position the sound of writing upon it was distinctly heard by me. On removing
it, I found written upon it the following words:—
“ Mail must not doubt any more, when we can come in this way.
“J. F., M.D.” |
Then the large arm-chair, rushed forward from the corner of the room in which
it had been placed to the table.
Again the slate was placed under the table, and projecting from it. A hand j
twice seized and shook my leg, both of the hands of Dr. Slade being at the moment i
before me, and his whole person visible.
Thus ended this experiment. All that I have reported was done, that is certain, j
How it was done, and by what agency, is a problem for psychology to solve. For j
my own part I can say only that I was in the full possession of my senses; that I
was wide awake ; that it was in broad daylight; that Dr. Slade was under my 1
observation the whole time, and could not have moved hand or foot without being
detected by me.
That it was not a self-delusion is shown by this, that any person who chooses to j
go may see almost the same phenomena. I offer no opinion upon their causes, for
I have formednone. If they be genuine, it is impossible to exaggerate their in¬
terest and importance. If they be an imposture, it is equally important that the ;
trick should be exposed in the only way in which trickery can be explained, by j
doing the same thing, and showing how it is done.
August 8th, 1876.
Mr. Munton: Now, having read that letter, if Mr. Lewis does not |
ask for Serjeant Cox to attend here for cross-examination, I will not
trouble the court with any observations upon it.
Mr. Lewis made no response.
EVIDENCE OF MR. A. R. WALLACE, PRESIDENT OF THE BIOLOGICAL SECTION OF
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE.
Alfred Russel Wallace was accordingly called, and examined by Mr.
Munton : I am an author. I have written works on natural history. I
have written a work entitled, The Miracles of Modern Spiritualism. I
have been investigating this subject for eleven years. I have had many
sittings with paid mediums, but probably ten times as many sittings in
private families. These sittings satisfied me of the genuineness of the j
phenomena, and that they proceeded from some unknown force. I
know the defendant Slade. I have had three seances with him. On I
the 9th of August I sat down with him in the back room. I took up
the slate, examined it, and thoroughly cleaned it myself with a wet sponge.
We then both rubbed it until it was dry. A small crumb of slate pencil
was then placed upon it. It was then placed under the side of the
table, and held close to the woodwork. A sound of writing was heard, j
and in a few seconds the slate was produced with writing upon it. The
slate was close to the woodwork of the table, and Slade held it by the
thumb. The message was certainly on the upper side of the slate; that
which faced the lower surface of the table. Slade moved the slate j
deliberately from under the table. There was no shuffling on his part.
I cannot say the purport of the message. Two or three messages of T
this kind were produced while Slade held the slate. I then wished to
hold it myself. He cleaned it with his hand, and I held it close under j
the table, as he had done, both his hands being on the table upon my j
other hand. The result was that I heard writing, as before, and
taking out the slate, I read writing upon it. The next experiment was
on the slate when it lay on the table with a bit of pencil under it. i'
Writing was again heard, and a message appeared. No other experiment j,
was made on that occasion. I paid another visit to Dr. Slade on October |(
the 7th, since the commencement of this inquiry. On that occasion, after j
several trials, when nothing occurred, he held the slate under the table j
again, when we heard a faint sound of writing, and on bringing the slate l1
| out we found upon it the words “ Can’t now.” I examined the slate, and
[ could distinctly see the dust of the slate pencil. I went to Slade again
r on Oct. 14, after the table had been impounded here, and found a com¬
mon mahogany Pembroke table with two brackets. Dr. Slade pushed
back the bracket between us, saying it was in the way. On that occasion
I took a small book slate. Pieces of pencil were put between the slates,
and Dr. Slade held it under the corner of the table. He was in a state
of considerable agitation, passing the slate from the table frequently.
I do not think there was more than one or two seconds during which I
| did not see the slate. Dr. Slade apologised for touching my body with
| the slate, but said he could not help it. The slate was not out of my
| sight more than a second or two, and it was impossible Slade could have
I written upon it. The message which came was in four distinct lines, with
the “i ” dotted where it occurred, and the “ t ” crossed. The message
was, “ Is this proof ? I hope so.”
You have heard witnesses speak of convulsive movements on the part
| of Dr. Slade. In your experience have you found that to be exceed¬
ingly common ?—So common as to be an almost universal characteristic
| of mediums.
From beginning to end of your sitting was there anything indicative
of imposture ?—I could see nothing whatever indicative of imposture.
Were there any raps or movements that attracted your attention ?—
I heard the raps and felt the touches which have been described, but the
most remarkable thing was that the flat table, when my hands and
those of Dr. Slade were clasped together, rose up, and almost
instantaneously turned completely over on to the top of my head and
slid down my back. (Laughter.)
I Was it possible that this could have been produced by Slade's feet or
II legs ?—I think not. It appeared to me to be absolutely impossible.’
Cross-examined by Mr. Lewis: Did you understand from the de-
1 fendant who wrote tins message “ Is this proof? ”
| Witness : I did not on that occasion. On the previous occasion he
I had had a message signed “Allie,”and he then told me that “ Allie ”
! i was the spirit of his wife.
II On the occasion of the message, “ Is this proof? ” did Slade lead you
11 to suppose, it was spirit-writing ?—On that occasion there was not a word
, j spoken on the subject between us. The writing was there, and that was
i ] what I took particular notice of.
I What did you understand by this message?—I understood it to be
i[ “is it proof” of a power not his own. •
i ] The slate had four divisions; a piece of pencil was placed between
[ | each ?—Yes.
II But no writing appeared except just under the lid ?—No. He did no t
i i press this slate up against the lower portion of the table.
[ I Did he explain to you that if he had pressed the slate up against the
i i table, it would be impossible to write inside ?—No, he did not.
11 Did that fact occur to you ?—It did not occur to me that one would
11 be more proof than the other.
i j Does it occur to you now that if he had pressed the slate against the
i! under surface of the table that it would be impossible to write inside it ?
»| —Yes.
I; Mr. Flowers : Even by a spirit, you know ?
i! Mr. Lewis: Oh, no. (Laughter.) j£jt
[ | But the impossibility would be somewhat removed if the slate was
)! not pressed up against the under surface of the table?—Yes. Before
) | the message appeared he moved about a great deal. I believe that he
[i could not help that; it is an old experience of mine.
Will you look at that slate (produced), which was handed in by Mr.
) j Hutton, of the Spectator, and say whether you see any resemblance to
ji the handwriting which you got?—(After inspection): Well, there is a
i j general resemblance, I believe.
i i Does it appear to you to be writing done under difficulty ?—No. It
j.j appears to me to be plain, quick writing, done without any difficulty
i j whatever.
>j Before you went to make this inquiry did you insist upon seeing
j j Slade’s writing, to show you his style of handwriting ?■—No ; certainly
H not.
i; Why didn’t you ask for it?—Because I did not consider that it had
I j any bearing upon the subject.
,1 Why not?—Because the only evidence I would expect would be
| evidence that he could not have done it.
II Would you not think that if the writing on the slate was like his
[ | writing that it would be some evidence ?—Not if I had direct ocular
i i evidence to the contrary.
i Did Slade explain to you why the slate was put under the corner of
j | the table ?—That seems self-evident. If it were put under any other
i i part it would have been further from me, and, of course, further from
i my observation;
Was the bracket near the corner of the table ?—Yes ; of the double
11 table.
I But I speak of the last time you went ?—The bracket was shut up
j where the slate was held. When, on the previous occasion, I asked
Slade why the slate was put under the table, he said he could not help
[I it, that he had no power over the place at which it was held, and (hat
i i the slate moved involuntarily. I beheve that the motion of Slade’s arm
was to some extent involuntary.
ji Did he explain why it was necessary to use the table?—No.
Did you ask him ?—No. '
Could it not have been done on the sideboard or mantelpiece ?—I did
not ask him. It would have been a foolish question.
Did you ask him if the spirit could write on a locked slate?-—No.
Did it not strike you as singular that writing could not be produced on
j i a locked slate ?—I don’t know that it could not have been produced. I
don’t believe that Slade could not produce it. The only fact is that he
! did not produce it on that occasion.
Continued on page 164.
161
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 3, 1876.
DR. SLADE SENTENCED TO THREE MONTHS’ HARD j j
LABOUR ON THE ASSERTIONS OF MESSRS. LANKESTER j I
AND DONKIN. 11
Dr. Henry Slade, a gentleman with an unblemished j j
public reputation of fifteen years’ standing, was on Tuesday j j
sentenced, at Bow-street, to three months’ imprisonment, j j
with hard labour, on the evidence of Professor Lankester, ! |
F.R.S., of 38, Belsize-park, London, and Mr. Donkin, M.B., j j
of Y\ estminster Hospital. It is one of a class of cases well | |
known to lawyers, in which two witnesses depose to certain | !
things, and with nobody there to check them the experience j |
of absent persons is considered irrelevant. The following is I j
the decision of Mr. Flowers:— l |
The questions in this case are two. Firstly—Do the facts alleged j(j
constitute an offence under the Vagrant Act ? and, secondly—Did Slade jj j
do what he is alleged to have done? The offence defined by the jjj
Vagrancy Act is professing or pretending to tell fortunes, or using any j(!
subtle craft, means, or device, by palmistry or otherwise, to deceive or ijl
impose on any of Her Majesty’s subjects. I think that in order to jjj
constitute this offence two things are necessary, viz., using some subtle | 1
craft, means, or device, like palmistry, and an attempt to deceive or jjj
impose on some person. Palmistry is defined in Richardson’s dictionary j j j
thus:—“ Divination by inspection of the hands, from the roguish tricks iij
of the pretenders to this art. To palm is to trick, or play a trick, to jjj
impose, to pass or practise a trick, imposition, or delusion. More 1 i
restrictedly, to palm is to hold and keep in the palm, to touch with the jjl
palm, to handle.” The definitions given by Johnson and Webster are ! j
very similar. The trick imputed to Slade consists in falsely pretending j j
to procure from spirits messages written by such spirits upon a slate, jij
held under the table by Slade for the purpose, such messages having ijj
previously been written by himself. Such a trick seems to me to be H
“ a subtle craft, means, or device ” of the same kind as fortune-telling, jfi
In each instance the impostor pretends to practise a magical or, at least, 1 j j
an occult art. I am confirmed in this view by the language of another jjj
statute, to which reference has been made in the course of these pro- j(j
ceedings, the 9th George II., c. 5. This Act repealed James I., c. 12, j I
by which witchcraft was made felony, and prohibited prosecutions for the j j j
offence of “ witchcraft, sorcery, enchantment, or conjuration,” which apart j JI
from the statute of James was punishable by the Ecclesiastical Courts, jjj
and perhaps at common law. It then enacts that, for the more effec- j j
tual preventing and punishing any pretences to such art or powers as ] j
are before mentioned, whereby ignorant persons are frequently deluded j j
and defrauded, or if any person pretended to exercise or use any kind j j
of witchcraft, sorcery, enchantment, or conjuration, or undertook to tell j ;
fortunes, or pretended from his or her skill or knowledge, in any occult j j
or crafty science, to discover goods supposed to be lost or stolen, he j j
shall upon conviction on an indictment be liable to a year’s imprison- j(j
ment, and be set in the pillory four times. The punishment of the j j
pillory is abolished, but the rest of the section remains in force, and I j j
reier to it only to illustrate the meaning of the Vagrant Act. It seems jjj
to me that Act forbids substantially the same thing, the practice of jjj
occult and crafty sciences, to use the words of the Act of George II.; or j j
subtle, crafty means or devices, by palmistry or otherwise, to use the jjj
words of the Act of George IV. For these reasons I think that if by jjj
the trick I have described Slade tried to impose on Professor Lankester j j j
and Dr. Donkin, he committed an offence against the Vagrant Act. And I j
this brings me to the second question. Did he do so or not ?—a ques- j j j
tion which lies in a narrow compass. Though much time has been jjj
occupied in its discussion, I was unwilling to exclude evidence to which i j
the parties attached importance, and I accordingly admitted a good deal i j j
which when given appeared to me at the time, and still appears to me, j j j
irrelevant. On the one hand I attach no importance to the evidence of jjj
Mr. Maskelyne given on the summons for conspiracy, because it proves, j j j
what no one can doubt, namely, that some things done by Slade might be jjj
done by a conjuror. On the other hand, I cannot attach importance jjj
to the evidence of the witnesses for the defence, because they only prove jjj
that on other occasions strange, if you please, very strange, things, hap- jj j
pened in Slade’s presence, and that they did not perceive that he caused jjj
them. I forbear, however, to speculate on these matters, and confine my- j j j
self to what happened between Slade, Lankester, and Donkin. The whole j J j
case turns upon the evidence of the two last-named persons, which, in a jjj
few words, is to the effect that they saw Slade’s hands move as if he was jjj
writing, and that, on snatching the slate from him immediately after- jjj
wards, and before it was placed in the position in which the spirits were jj j
to write, and without any sound as if of writing, they found words jjj
written upon it. If this be true, it involves the inference that Slade j j j
wrote the words himself, and that, therefore, he could not think the ! j j
spirit of his wife had written them. I must decide according to the j j
well-known course of nature, and if it be true that the two witnesses jjj
saw the motions that they describe, and found the writing on the slate j i
immediately afterwards, it is impossible for me to doubt, whatever hap- I j
pened on other occasions, that Slade did on that occasion write those i i
words on that slate, in order to cheat Professor Lankester and Dr. [ j
Donkin. It is true that Simmons said there was nothing to pay, as jj
Lankester and Donkin were not satisfied; but the question is, whether jjj
subtle craft, means, or device was used to impose on these gentlemen, j j
and it clearly was, as the money would have been paid if the trick had j j j
not been discovered. Upon the whole, I think that an offence against jjj
the Vagrancy Act has been proved, and, considering the grave mischiefs jjj
likely to result from such practices—mischiefs which those who remem- j J j
her the case of Home, also a professional medium, cannot consider jji
unsubstantial—I feel I cannot mitigate the punishment the law imposes, j!
I, therefore^ sentence the defendant to three months’ imprisonment, til
with hard labour, in the House of Correction. (Mingled cheers and
hisses.)
Mr. Munton: With all respect, sir, for your authority, as this case is
one which involves questions of importance, I desire to give notice of
an appeal.
Mr. Flowers: I am glad to hear it, for although I have honestly given
my opinion, I would prefer that the question should not rest there.
Mr. Lewis: Then, sir, it will be necessary for you to fix the amount
of the bail.
Mr. Flowers: I think it will answer every purpose to bind the de¬
fendant in £200, and to require him to find two sureties in £100 each.
Mr. Lewis : But do you think, sir, that that will be sufficient?
Mr. Flowers: I shall do nothing harsh or unfair, Mr. Lewis. I have
given my decision according to my view of the case ; but I do not intend
to let the defendant go to prison in the meantime if he can find reason¬
able bail. In fact, I think that until the defendant can perfect his bail, the
same bail as hitherto—himself in £100 and two sureties in £50—will
quite suffice.
Mr. Enmore Jones : I am ready to give the larger bail at once, and I
have no doubt that if Dr. Wyld is here he will be ready to do the same.
(Applause from the public.)
Dr. Wyld : I am ready to do the same.
Mr. Lewis: Of course I consent to these gentlemen being taken as
bail, and have only to ask that the slates and table produced in the
coarse of this inquiry be retained for the appeal.
Mr. Munton: I can certainly have no objection to that, seeing that
we produced the table.
The bail was then taken, and the defendant was released pending the
appeal.
In the future it would be well for the friends of the de¬
fendant to give special attention to what Messrs. Lankester,
Maskelyne, and Donkin swore about the table, as compared
with the table itself, and the evidence of its makers.
GREEK TEXT OBTAINED THROUGH DR. SLADE.
BY THE HON. ROBERT DALE OWEN, FORMERLY AMERICAN MINISTER AT THE
COURT OF NAPLES.
At half-past seven on Monday evening, February 9 th,
1874, I called at Dr. Slade’s rooms, 413, Fourth-avenue,
New York, found him disengaged, and had a sitting which
I shall remember while I live.
It was held in his back parlour; no one but myself
present; doors closed and locked; sufficient gaslight from
a chandelier suspended above the table to make every object
in the room distinctly visible. We sat at a table without
cover, five feet by two and a half, Slade at one end, and
I on one side, near him: Slade’s hands on the table through¬
out the sitting.
An interval of some ten or fifteen minutes, during which
nothing occurred ; Slade nervous, restless, and seemingly
disappointed. Then he laid a small slate on the table
before me, and, after a time, went to a writing-desk,
brought thence half a quire of paper, selected a sheet, and
handed it to me with a request that I would examine it.
I did so, carefully, under the gaslight, and can positively
affirm that not a word or letter was visible upon it.
Thereupon he added, “ They wish you to lay it on the
slate, and to lay the slate on your knee.”
Then, after another pause: “ Have you a lead pencil ?”
“Yes.”
“ Please throw it under the table.”
I did so.
A few minutes afterwards I felt the grasp, as of a hand,
on one of my knees, arresting my attention, for the touch
was unmistakably distinct. Presently there appeared, steal¬
ing over my knees, and creeping slowly up the slate, a hand,
holding my pencil. This hand resembled, point for point,
that of a white marble female statue, alike in size, in
colour, and in form : the fingers taper, and the whole most
delicately moulded. It was detached and shaded off at the
wrist. It commenced writing about the middle of the note
sheet, and continued to write under my eyes for two or
three minutes, ending at the bottom of the page. Then it
slipped gently back under the table, carrying the pencil
with it.
Again an interval, perhaps of five minutes. Then ap¬
peared a second hand, somewhat smaller than the first, but
in colour and symmetry closely resembling it. This hand
moved to the top of the sheet of paper; wrote as the
former had done, and for about the same period of time,
then disappeared slowly in like manner. I saw it even
more distinctly than the first, because it wrote outside of
Nov. 3, 1876.
THE SPIBITTTALIST.
163
the shadow of the projecting table top. and directly under
the gas-light.
As we had no raps indicating the close of the sitting, we
kept our places, talking over what had happened. After
some time a hand similar to that which first wrote, showed
itself coming out from below the end of the table furthest
from Dr. Slade. It was detached, as the others had been,
remained visible several minutes, then sank out of sight.
This closed the sitting.
When I came to examine the writing of which I had thus
witnessed the execution, I found the first written to be in
English, a commonplace communication with the signa¬
ture of Dr. Slade’s deceased wife. The last written, but first
on the note sheet, headed in English, e( Law of Love. Matt,
v. 43—45,” was in Greek.
Now, my knowledge of Greek, imperfect when I left college,
has, during more than half-a-century of disuse, so faded out
that I can barely translate a word, here and here. I referred
the manuscript to two of the best Greek scholars in Harvard
University, and from them I ascertained that it was what it
purported to be (a few aspirates and accents only omitted),
the original of the three well-known verses, thus rendered
in our revised version :—
“ 43. Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love
thy neighbour and hate thine enemy.
“ 44. But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them
that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for
them which despitefully use you and persecute you.
“ 45. That ye may be the children of your father which is
in Heaven : for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil, and
on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.”
Truly the “ Law of Love.” That those of your readers
who are familiar with Greek may judge the original MS. for
themselves, I here submit a half-size photograph of what
I obtained.
cr~v*~*~ e
4 s'
trov-xcU xivefeiS
sX-*et'>3
71 tffe 'irnc*$-tr en tygif
etj f 'Wcc i c/l K&'V-ccu'is
rtu Ctrojeayvi'*. ^ Xou-
C*. tr'Co*' ^ 4 0< *
o^yccf/o t ^ < 'T C •
o< fc'lrictjC cti/i'£0 Try >
(fty+c/1 jit**,
^ iyiA'-
buvJLo -
/U^ ^JL 'A^v)
tu^tAysvyO^ ,K>  
readers0*—- With°ut comment> merely reminding y
four
That this sitting was held in the light
That the sheet of note paper remained in my possession
from the time I first received and examined it till the close
of the sitting; and has never been out of my possession
since.
That, for the reality of the phenomena I had the evidence
of two senses ; that of feeling, and best and most convincing
of all, the testimony of what the old poet calls the “ faithful
eyes.”
Now York, October 15th, 1876.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
The efficient fighting of the Slade case is, to a large
extent, a question of funds. Spiritualists should, at this
juncture, come forward unanimously, and subscribe all they
can afford, that the Committee appointed to watch the case
may be able to decide at once upon their future line of action.
Let everybody—man, woman, and child—immediately remit,
or guarantee what they can to Dr. George Wyld, 12, Great
Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, London.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Mr. Alexander Calder
y Charles Blackburn
Mrs. Weldon .
Mr. Martin Smith .
Miss H. . .
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze
„ J. Enmore Jones
Dr. George Wyld
Miss Douglas .
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood
„ T. E. Partridge,
„ J. Bulteel.
„ P. B. J. .
„ G. C. Joad
Dr. J. Dixon .
Mrs. Lowe
Dr. K. Cook .
Captain James .
G. K . .
J. R. W. .
Mrs. Maltby ,
Mr. Manners .
„ W. P. Adshead
Mrs. S. Parker.
Mr. J. C. Ward
„ J. Andre .
Smaller sums .
£ s. d.
10 10 0
10 10 0
10 10 0
10 10 0
10 0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
1 0
0 0
1 0
0 0
0 0
TESTIMONIAL TO ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—It has been decided to close the A. J, Davis Testi¬
monial list, and I have remitted iG114 3s. to Mr. Green,
having taken the expenses at my charge. Will you kindly
announce this in next number. J. N. T. Martheze.
20, Palmeira-square, Brighton, Oct. 31st, 1876.
Dr. Monck.—Dr. Monck, who possesses real medial powers, has been
charged at Huddersfield with imposture under the Vagrancy Act, and
conjuring apparatus has been found in his room. He is very little known
to London Spiritualists. At present we have no information upon the
subject except from newspaper reports, and in newspaper reports no
Spiritualist places any trust. Rumour says that Dr. Monck was so in¬
cautious as to carry about with him apparatus which he used in his public:
lectures exposing conjurors.
Spiritualist Discussion Meetings.—Next Monday, the fortnightly
discussion meetings will recommence at the rooms of the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London. The
arrangement of the meetings and the choice of subjects for discussion have
this winter been placed in the hands of the Experimental Research Com¬
mittee, which, under the able leadership of Mr Desmond Fitz-Gerald, has
been doing such good work in the establishment and perfecting of tests in
relation to physical phenomena. It is oh this subject that the discussions
will open next Monday evening with a paper by Mr. Fitz-Gerald. The
meetings are free to members of the Association, who are at liberty to in¬
vite any friends likely to take an interest in the subject.
Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces.—On Sunday last, October 29tb,
Mr. J. J. Morse delivered two inspirational addresses in the Temperance
Hall, All Saints, Manchester, Mr. W. Oxley presiding at each service.
The audiences were large on each occasion. On Sunday next, November
5th, Mr. Morse will fill his regular monthly engagement at Newcastle-on-
Tyne, by delivering inspirational addresses in the Old Freemasons’ Hall,
Newgate-street. Afternoon at three, subject “ For what is Life Even¬
ing at seven, subject, “The Coming God.” Also in the same hall, on
Monday evening, November 6th, at 7.30, subject, “ Crime, its cause and
cure from the standpoint of Spiritualism.” Other engagements are as fol¬
lows:—Liverpool, November 12th; Glasgow, November 19th; Halifax,
November 26th; Oldham, December 10th; Manchester, December 17th;
London, Sundays, December 24th and 31st. All letters to be addressed,
for terms and dates, to Mr. J. J. Morse, Warwick Cottage, 518, Old Ford
road, Bow, London, E.
164
THE SPIHITFALIST.
Nov. 3, 1876.
EVIDENCE IN DEFENCE OF DR. SLADE.
Continued from page 161.
You have said that you do not pay much attention to the writing ?-—I
attach no importance whatever to the message.
What do you mean by that F—I have seen many, and they possess a
general similarity. I attach importance to the fact that there is writing,
not to the subject matter of the writing. On the first occasion he told
me the messages were written by spirits, and I understood they all
were. I did not investigate Slade’s history before I Went there.
Mr. Flowers: You took your own slate, you say; did you take the
pencil also ?
Witness: I did not.
Mr. Hutton’s slate was handed to the witness, and he was asked by
Mr. Flowers whether he could read the writing upon it, but he was
unable to do so, although he saw in the characters a similarity to the
writing on his own slate.
Re-examined: You went there to investigate the phenomena of slate
writing?—Yes.
Re-examined by Mr. Munton: I have generally found that there is
no reliance to be placed on identity in the matter of the messages. I
have heard it said that some shade is one of the recognised conditions
for slate writing. I may add that during the whole time that the slate
was being held by Slade his feet and knees were fully visible to me
outside the table, as he was sitting sideways.
EVIDENCE OF DR. GEORGE WYLD.
George Wyld, M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, was next ex¬
amined. He said he had resided- in Great Cumberland-place for
twenty-two years, and had believed in mesmerism for thirty-five years,
and in Spiritualism for twenty-two years. He paid three visits to Dr.
Slade between the 4th and the 12th of August, and had about twenty
experiments, but, to save the time of the court, he would confine his
observations to two experiments. These he called his crucial experi¬
ments. He wished to remark that, although a believer in Dr. Slade,
he yet acted as if he were a sceptic, because he wished to obtain test
experiments, in order; to convince his brother, Mr. Wyld, Doctor of
Philosophy, Edinburgh, who was a philosophical sceptic in these mat¬
ters. Dr. Slade willingly submitted to Dr. Wyld’s crucial tests. He
proceeded to say:—The first experiment was thus performed—I held
both Dr. Slade’s feet with my feet; I held his right hand in my left
hand, and his left hand lay before me on the table. I then took up the
slate, minutely examined it, and found it a dry, dusty slate; there was
no possibility of there being sympathetic writing on it-. I examined it
for a minute or two. I then placed a crumb of pencil on the slate, and
placed the elate below the flap of the table, holding it tightly to the
under surface, retaining meanwhile my hold of Dr. Slade’s feet and
right hand, while his left hand lay upon the table. Immediately I
heard writing, which became louder.and louder as I approached my ear
to the slate1. Three raps were given. I drew out the slate slowly and
carefully, as if it had been a drawer, and there lay the little bit of
pencil and this message—“ Let this convince you.” Again I took up
the slate, cleaned it, and placed the crumb of pencil on the surface of the
table; and now, holding both Dr. Slade’s feet with my feet, and his
right hand in my left hand, I covered the bit of pencil with the slate,
and then seized Dr. Slade’s remaining hand, and rested my elbow on
the slate. Immediately writing was heard, then three raps. I then lifted
the slate, and there found a message of a secret family nature, involving
four family names. During the twenty experiments I never allowed the
slate to be out of my sight, and during these two crucial experiments I
did not allow Slade to touch the slate, it was in my own hands from first
to last. These facts enable me to say, solemnly, that I am not more
convinced of my own existence than I am that the writing appeared on
my slate without the intervention of human bands. The convulsions
spoken of as affecting Dr. Slade are well known to medical men under
the name of chorea; they, more or less, affect all mediums when under
influence. The hoarse clearing of the throat is, also, purely a nervous
affection, called hysterical throat, very commonly affecting public
speakers and others when agitated. All the writing I had in my
twenty experiments was, beyond all doubt, the dry dusty writing of
slate-pencil.
By Mr. Lewis: Did you ever, Dr. Wyld,. see Mrs. Guppy come
through the ceiling?—No, Mr. Lewis, I never did. (Laughter.)
The message convinced you ?—My twenty-two years’ experience con¬
vinced me.
Were you present when Professor Lankester seized the slate?—I
was not; and I am glad I was not present, as I might, perhaps, have
been tempted to use a little psychic force. (Laughter.)
EVIDENCE OF MR. GEORGE C. JOAD.
George Curling Joad examined: I am nothing at all; I am nobody.
(Laughter.)
Are you a gentleman of independent means ?—Yes.
Mr. Joad continued: I reside at Oakfield, Wimbledon-park. I have
seen the defendant Slade on five different occasions. I wrote one letter
to the Times. I have not had much experience in this matter. Three
months ago I thought the whole thing humbug. I went on the first
occasion before Professor Lankester. On the first occasion I did not
apply any particular test. I went twice after that to test him. On
reading Professor Lankester’s letter I wrote to the defendant, and said
that as I was not satisfied, I should like to see him again, and he ap¬
pointed an interview. I accordingly went on the Monday morning, and
took with me a double slate. I first examined a slate of Dr. Slade’s,
in order to see whether it was free from writing. I placed my initials at
one corner. He then put the slate under the corner of the table, in such
a way that my initials projected. The sound of writing occurred almost
immediately, and the slate was raised without going out of my sight at
all, and I saw a short message, “We are here,” or something of that
sort. I then said I would like to try my book slate, and he placed
between the two slates a crumb of pencil, and placed it under the table,
without it having been out of my sight for an instant. It was then
closed, and writing took place on one side of my slate. The slate was
next turned over, and a piece of pencil placed on the side which was
free from writing. Slade raised the slate, and placed it on my shoulder
within my view, and I immediately heard the sound of writing close to
my ear. The slate was brought down, and a message was found
written on it, “We cannot do more now. Allie.” I was pretty well
convinced by this that the writing was genuine; but since this inquiry
commenced I wished to try two slates of my own tied together with a
string. Dr. Slade consented to this. I took two slates to him. He
first said he would try a slate of his own to see how the power was.
He was about to put mine under the corner of the table as usual, but it
seemed to be pushed away, and he remarked that the power was very
strong. He kept swaying it to and fro a good deal; ultimately it came
very near the ground, and I heard a sound as of a mallet or a hammer
striking, and the slate flew into pieces. Slade then said he would try
again with a slate of his own. He placed a slate under the table, and
asked whether writing would come with tied slates, and the reply was,
“ We will try.” I said to him that I did not see how I could now tie
my slates together, as one of them had been broken. (Laughter.)
Slade then got a slate of his own which was at hand. It was of the
same size as mine. I examined it, and found it clean. A piece of
pencil was put on my slate. Slade’s slate was next placed on the top
of mine, and the two were tied together. He then took them up by
one comer to place under the table, but they also appeared to be pushed
away. I said, “ Perhaps they want to write on the table.” He replied,
“We will try.” He asked me to hold the opposite comer to himself,
which I did, and we held the slates above the table, our fingers resting on
the table. In two seconds the sound of writing was heard, and con¬
tinued for at least five minutes. I said to Slade, “ I want to open these
myself.” I then opened the slates, which had never been out of my
sight, and on both the inner sides (his slate and mine) there appeared a
long message containing 57 words. That was perfectly convincing to
me as to the slate writing. A hand-bell was placed on the floor. I
could see the whole of Dr. Slade’s body. He asked for the bell to be
rung, and it was rung twice. Then the bell rose up, passed over the
table between him and me, and fell on the floor on the other side.
Cross-examined by Mr. Lewis: I examined the bell. I found nothing
whatever. I did not ask him to account for the phenomenon. He did
not say whether he broke the slate himself, or offer any explanation
with reference to it. I did not ask him for any explanation. I did not
want to ask him.
EVIDENCE OF MR. ALGERNON JOT, M. INST. C.E.
Algernon Joy, a member of the Institution of Civil Engineers, and
formerly in the Royal Artillery: I have been interested in Spiritualism
for over fifteen years. I had a seance with Slade at New York a year
ago, which I described in a letter to the Times. I went, without
any previous arrangement, with Colonel Olcott and Mr. Massey. They
had a seance first, and after it was over, Slade took me at once into his
seance room, without any previous communication with Simmons.
There were two or three strong gas burners full on, immediately over
the table we sat at, which was just like the one in court. Slade sat
with his chair turned towards me and sideways to the table, and close
up to and square against it, so that he could not possibly move his legs
over to the other side, as the leg of the table was in the way, and close
against his leg and the chair. Moreover, his legs were never out of my
sight. I sat against the flap of the table, and close to the comer, so
that I could see his whole body all the time, and I overlooked him as
much as possible. It did not occur to me, as it did to some witnesses
for the prosecution, to avoid looking into things. A chair, opposite
me, and about two or three feet behind Slade’s left shoulder, rose
slowly six or eight inches in the air, and then toppled over away
from Slade, and lay on the ground about three yards from him. I
got up, examined the floor, which was carpeted, and the chair, and
satisfied myself that there were no wires or hairs or machinery con¬
nected with it. Subsequently, the chair, which I could see from my
seat as it lay on the floor, got up, and came back to its place at the
table. Slade never once left his seat during the whole seance. I
stood up at some distance from him, holding the slate up against
him so that he could not see my hand nor the surface of the slate
nearest me. I also made him turn his head on one side. There
was no looking-glass in the room. I then wrote, “ Is my father
Henry here to-night ?’’ My reason for wording the question so pecu¬
liarly was that after I had written “ Is my father,” Slade said, “ You
had better give the name of the spirit you wish to hear from.” I then
turned the slate over on to my hand, so that my hand covered the
writing, and the blank surface was. uppermost. Slade took hold of one
corner, and we passed the slate under the table, when he instantly let
go. I heard a sound as of slate writing, and on bringing the slate up
found on the upper surface the words, “Your father, Henry, is not
present.” The slate had never left my hand, and Slade had never had
an opportunity of seeing my question, or of writing on the slate, unless
he did it by psychic force, whatever that may be, and had found out my
question by clairvoyance or mind-reading, if there is such a thing. I
can swear that Slade did not write it by any ordinary means, or by
conjuring, or anything of the kind. I have had three sittings since
Lankester’s letter appeared in the Times. Once I went with Miss
Kislingbury, who brought a new book-slate with her. It was never out
of my sight for more than three seconds at a time, except when Miss
Kislingbury sat upon it. We opened it, and saw that there was no
writing on it. Immediately afterwards Slade took it and held it under
the table for ten or twelve seconds, during the greater part of which I
could see a good portion of the corner projecting beyond the table. It
THE SPIRITUALIST.
165
Kov. 3, 1876.
was a front corner, and not a corner next to the hinged side, and I
could see that the slate was closed all the time. He then brought it up
and rested it partly on the edge of the table, when we heard the sound
of writing begin, which continued for five minutes, during which he slid
the slate forward till it rested completely on the table, and then turned
his hand over and rested the tips of his five fingers on the top of it. On
opening it we found the message which I produce. Mr; Joy handed
the slate to the magistrate. The message was as follows:—“Dear
Friend,—We all feel to bless you for the kindness shone my dear
husband. I hope he will not get discouraged, for all will be well for
him. He is in the right, and in coming years will prove it so. I shall
be with him to encourage and to give him strength.—I am truly,
A. W. Slade.”
Mr. Lewis (examining the message and handing it to the magistrate):
You will observe that the spirit does not spell very well. “ Shewn ” is
written “ shone.” (Laughter.)
Mr. Flowers: They spell in the other world as they spelled in this,
and a spirit that spelled badly would go on spelling badly. (Laughter.)
Cross-examined by Mr. Lewis: While I was in New York I took an
opportunity of seeing as much as I could of several of the leading
Spiritualists there, and though there is no class of beings about whom
more scandalous stories are told than mediums, I did not hear a whisper
against Slade’s fair fame. There is no class who say more evil about
each other than mediums, but even among them, some ten or a dozen
whom I heard express an opinion had not a word to say against him.
Did Slade say anything against any other medium?—No.
Did it not occur to you that three persons might discover what one
would not?—Yes, but my experience in Spiritualism taught me that
there were other reasons against the admission of more than two at a
time. With some mediums the presence of mixed influences draws from
and exhausts them.
Mr. Munton desired to put in as evidence a framed slate, which had
written on its surface the Lord’s Prayer in Greek, obtained at a seance
at Dr. Slade’s by a gentleman from Manchester.
Mr. Flowers: I do not think it necessary. Your evidence is already
overwhelming, supposing that I take it into consideration.
EVIDENCE OF MR. GEOFFRET SIMMONS.
Geoffrey Simmons: I reside at 8, Upper Bedford-place, Hussell-square.
I arrived in England two or three months since. I am an American.
Prior to the war between the Northern and Southern States I was a
merchant there. From April, 1863, until the close of the war I was
officially recognised as a sutler. I have known Slade personally since
January, 1863. After the war broke out in 1863 Slade resided at
Jackson. At the time Slade was practising as a clairvoyant physician.
At that time, according to the law of the States, men of that class paid
a tax to the revenue. It was an internal revenue tax.
Mr. Lewis: What was the name of it; a showman’s tax ? (Hisses
and laughter.)
Mr. Munton having protested against this interruption, the examina¬
tion proceeded.
Witness: It was a physician’s tax. Dr. Slade has always, since I
have known him, been a man in delicate health. He proposed to me at
that time that I should go to Jackson, with a view to carrying on the
commercial part of his practice. That was because he required some
assistance. Besides, the state of his health compelled him. He had
two places of business. They were 75 miles apart. In the course of
his practice he visited both. I accepted his proposal, after taking time
to consider it. The war having ceased, and I not being engaged in my
business, I agreed to stop with him; and for some years I acted as his
secretary and treasurer, and carried on the commercial part of the
business.
I believe you, after a time, shared the proceeds ?—Yes.
Do you recollect Dr. Slade marrying in 1868 ?—Yes.
Did he marry a lady publicly known as a lecturer on Spiritualism ?—
Yes.
And did that lady die about a year after her marriage ?—Yes.
Do you know of your own knowledge that these manifestations
occurred to Slade ?—Yes.
After Mrs. Slade’s death did Dr. Slade commence to give sittings some¬
thing like those he has been giving in England ?—He had been giving
sittings before I saw him, and he continued to do so after her death. I
have continued to carry out the commercial part of his engagements ever
since, and have shared the proceeds with him.
Have you been concerned in the correspondence with Bussia as to an
engagement ?—Yes.
And that he has entered into an engagement with a Bussian society ?
—Yes.
And that he is passing en route to Bussia ?—Yes.
Cross-examined: Have you received the larger share of the
sovereigns ?
Witness: No. Equal.
Did he pretend to produce spirit masks ?—No; never.
Did you ever have any masks seized ?—No.
Did you ever have anything seized ?—Only when Professor Lankester
seized the slate. (Laughter.)
Mr. Munton then said that that was the case for the defence. Of
course his worship would recognise the fact that he had restricted the
evidence on behalf of Dr. Slade.
Mr. Flowers said he knew that was the case; and that it had been
done at his own request. He should take a little time to consider his
observations on the case, and with this view further proceedings in the
matter were adjourned until Tuesday.
Miss Lottie Fowler sails for New York from Liverpool to-morrow, ,
by the Cunard steamer, Abyssinia. She will go through at once from New
York to Chicago.
LETTEBS ABOUT DB. SLADE.
AN AMERICAN LAWYER ON DR. SLADE’S MEDIUMSHIP.
The following letter directed to Dr. Slade, “London,” was sent to
Bow-street Police-court last Tuesday, and put into his hands there :—
Oregon, Holt Co., Missouri, Oct. 10, 1876.
Henry Slade,—Sir,—The expose in your case gives me great annoy¬
ance, although you do not know me. I will tell you why I am annoyed.
I I went to see you one afternoon at your house in New York. My
name was never given to you; I went from here, almost direct, and was
I a perfect stranger in New York—never was there before; no one in
] your room but our two selves, and the sun shone into the window. As
soon as I entered your room it seemed to me that invisible hands mani¬
pulated my person; my hands were seized by invisible hands. You did
not offer to hold the little slate; I alone held it, you sitting off quite a
! distance. The slate, which I cleaned, was written upon both when I
| held it in my hand and when I held it under against the table top. My
own name was written on the slate, and names of friends deceased
! twenty or twenty-five years were subscribed. I will swear you did not
know the names, for no name was given to you by me—not even my own.
1 You tried tohold an accordion, which was violently wrested from you, to
'] your apparent alarm; I took hold of it and held it tightly in one hand,
i i with the keys turned toward me. The force pulled violently and
'I pushed, and the keys raised and fell to the tune of “ Home, sweet
!] home.” I could not have started the tune had my life been the forfeit,
i I silently requested (mentally as it is called) that “ Hail, Columbia,” be
[j played, and it was played. Also a dinner bell was rung in mid air,
| while whirled about by a power to me unseen. No experience can
| account for these things to me, but it puzzles me that you had to hold
i these articles, as you admit, while Lankester and Donkin were present,
(j All the men and women in God Almighty’s world cannot persuade me
> I I am such a fool, idiot, weakling, as to have been deceived at your house.
I I know you did not touch any article on that occasion. Why then, when
j I so much depended on it, did you have to touch and handle in London ?
} | When I read the cool explanations of such men as Lankester and Donkin,
j | I ask myself—Is it possible I was deceived on that occasion ? Now, I
ji respectfully ask you if you think I am mistaken as to your not touching
) i the articles on the occasion of my visit ? Nothing can make me think
(j so, not even your “say so.” But, then, I will never say anything more
jj about it.-—I am, very respectfully, yours etc.,
/; Clarke Irvine, Attorney-at-Law^ &c., &c.
ji; Oregon, Holt Co., Missouri, Lock Box, No. 5.
; j A LETTER FROM MISS SLADE.
ju We have received the following letter from Miss Slade, an American
|j| young lady, now in this hospitable country, but whose natural pro-
| j: tector is threatened with three months’ imprisonment, with hard labour,
ill on the assertions of Messrs. Lankester and Donkin :—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
j(j Sir,—This is my first attempt at writing an article for publication,
j j and I hope its want of eloquence will not exclude it from your columns,
iji The attack upon Dr. Slade, my uncle, has caused me to write, in the
j)j first place, to say that Prof. Lankester, as a man of science, should
m have investigated this subject with more patience, instead of at once
| > | rushing to the supposition that it is all mere trickery, for supposi-
|) | tion it is, and he has nothing to prove it otherwise. Older men of
jjl science have also been looking into the subject, and have come to their
iji own conclusions ; but I am sure all would unite in saying that it is a
iji force which does not proceed from the medium, and would also say,
i i most emphatically, that there is no possibility of trickery being re-
I j | sorted to in the production of these various manifestations,
iji If Prof. Lankester had had a little more experience in Spiritualism
iji in general, and a little more knowledge about the construction of a
iji common table, he would not have placed himself in so ridiculous a
iji position before the public. It is to be hoped that, in coming years, he
ijl may be benefited by the conclusions of older and wiser men, and not be
iji so ready to form an hypothesis on a subject of which he knows com-
i j I paratively nothing.
But my main object in writing this letter is to thank the National
j i Association of Spiritualists for their kindness in extending their helping
j j | hands to those who are strangers in this country, and for showing
iji themselves to be truly “ friends in need.” Mediums, surrounded by
; < i such a spirit of kindness, cannot fail in doing right. It is my earnest
iji hope that my uncle may be able to repay the Spiritualists for all their
iji kindness towards him, and it will always be my aim to try to support
i j i him in anything that goes for the promotion of the cause. Why should
iji I not support a cause that has been the means of bringing me face to
i | face with my spirit mother 1 It is enough to make me believe in this
I Divine truth, and cause me to bless the day when I was so fortunate as
to fall into the hands of my dear uncle, when it has been my good
j fortune to receive living truths from the shores of immortality.
When I see this cause assailed, it makes me feel sorry for its enemies,
I as “ they know not what they do.”
The knowledge of Spiritualism has proved a blessing to thousands
who were groaning in darkness and superstition. Spiritualism un¬
folds the light and splendour of the opening heavens. It leads its
followers away from dark paths, and shows them the glories of the
present and future. It bids them cease to mourn over the sins of the
j past, and tells them, ■>“ Go, and sin no more.” It gives them the
j blessed assurance that they are all children of one Father, and that all
j are cared for by Him. It points to every one the way of purity, and
sings in thunder tones, “ Do thy duty to thyself and to thy Maker.”
This is a truth which makes its appeal to the living soul, and cheers
and gladdens the inner vision. Does jugglery teach us this ? I say
166
THE SPIRITUALIST.
not. My taste forbids me to enter into a wrangle with jugglers ; it iji
would seem like “casting pearls before swine.” jv|
I was pleased to read the article in the Banner of Light of Sept. 30, j
op page 1, from the able pen of Allan Putnam, and it is my advice to ||i
investigators to read that carefully before looking into the phenomena I j j
of Spiritualism. j j I
Again thanking you in behalf of my uncle, for your kindness, and j
that of the committee,—I am, very truly yours, J
A ones Slade. j} j
MB. HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD ON DR. SLADE’S MEDIUMSUIP.
We have received the following letter from Mr. Wedgwood| (j
Sir,—Having a strong belief in the genuineship of the slate-writing j}j
exhibited by Dr. Slade, I was desirous of obtaining a specimen from |j|
him, under conditions adequate to negative the different ways of jjl
accounting for the writing proposed by those who accuse him of fraud. 11
I thought that this might be effected if I took my own folding-slate, and i j!
took care that it was never unclosed, or out of my sight, until the jjl
writing was found upon it. I accordingly made Slade understand that j j j
if the slate was taken underneath the table it must be opened before ! (j
me, for me to satisfy myself that there was no writing upon it up to that j j!
moment. He saw clearly the importance of this precaution, and we sat jh
down with his chair on the side facing the light. The slate consisted of j (|
a pair of hinged tablets, with slate on the inside only, so that when the j j j
tablets are shut you cannot touch the slate at all. * jli
Dr. Slade, in the first place, held the shut slate under the table in one ju
hand for preliminary inquiry. Presently we heard a crackling noise j|!
that I did not understand, and when the slate was brought up it was j||
found to be all broken to pieces on the inside. We were thus reduced j (|
to make use of two of Dr. Slade’s own slates, apparently new, having j j j
the grey look of unused slates. I breathed on them, and rubbed them j (j
well with my pocket handkerchief, and putting the rubbed faces j j |
together we tied them up fast with a bit of cord, with a fragment of slate jjl
pencil between them. Thus tied up the slate was laid flat on the table j (j
without having been taken under it at all dr removed for a moment from j| j
under my eyes. I placed both my hands upon it, and Slade one of his. |j j
Presently we heard the writing begin; I leant down my ear to listen to ! (i
it, and we both remarked that it did not sound like writing, but like a j j
succession of short strokes. This went on for a long time, six or seven j j j
minutes, perhaps, till I wondered how there could be room for it all. At j j
last the character of the sound entirely changed, and gave us the impres- j j j
sion of rapid writing in a running hand. When this was done 1 took j j j
the slate into the other room, leaving Slade entranced behind, and j j
untied the slate before Mr. Simmons, when I found that on one face j j j
was written, in a very good hand, the 26th verse of the first chapter of j j i
Genesis, in Greek, and on the other a short message of the usual cha- j j j
racter, in English. The Greek letters, being each written separately, . j j j
were what had given the broken sound of the former part of the writing, j j j
If it be suggested that the slates were prepared beforehand with some j j j
invisible writing, which was brought out by the heat of my hand, I j j
answer (independently of other grave objections) that the writing as it Ij;
stands can be wiped out by the merest touch; how, then, could it have j (j
escaped obliteration in its supposed invisible state when the slates were j
well rubbed with my pocket-handkerchief ? H. Wedgwood. hi:
31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W. j j
SLATE-WRITING IN DR. SLADE’S PRESENCE. jj j
A friend has sent us the following cutting from the JVeto York j j
Times
To the Editor of the New York Times. j j j
Finding in a recent issue of the Times some editorial references to j \ I
Dr. E. Ray Lankester’s exposures of the frauds practised by Spiritual j j j
mediums, and having just risen from a hasty perusal of Dr. William A. j(i
Hammond’s work on Spiritualism, and Allied Causes of Nervous De- j j i
rangement, I am impelled to crave your indulgence in a brief com- jjj
munication. As some of our American writers on the subject have no j (j
standing whatever in science, I shall not assume that their so-called jjj
exposures, although making good outfits for itinerant lecturers, can be jjj
regarded as having any real value. One of your paragraphs raises an ijj
issue as to Dr. Slade’s seances, which impels me to give the results of jjj
an experiment of my own that will not be found in the work published j j j
by the Appletons on the Etiology of Certain Phenomena called Spiritual, j j j
because it was instituted after the proofs had already been corrected. I jjj
called on the medium as a stranger, not even giving my name. I had jj
never met Dr. Slade, and could not, therefore, have been identified by j(j
him, as I did not call at the suggestion of any friend of his, but in con- jjj
sequence of a conversation between two persons who were strangers to i j I
me that I accidentally overheard. The room was a back parlour, fairly j
well lighted. A long table, an ordinary folding slate, and a pencil jjj
were all the implements used. These I examined thoroughly. Having j j j
done so, the medium broke off a small section of the pencil, placed it jj j
between the two slates, and laid them on the table folded. He sat j j j
not less than four feet from the slate and pencil, and moved neither j (j
hand nor foot during the seance. I was near him, but half interposed jjj
between him at the point where the slate was placed. A peculiar grating jjj
sound notified me that the pencil was moving, but as I did not once take j (j
my eyes off him, and I was so seated as to command both the table and jj j
the medium in a single glance, I know by ocular observation that there jjj
was no physical relation between them. Under these circumstances a Kj
message was scribbled to me, bearing the signature of a man who had jj j
been dead for several years, and who during his whole life had scarcely jj j
ever travelled beyond the limits of his native county—a man who lived j j j
and died in obscurity in a small inland town in Connecticut, and who ij j
hated Spiritualism and all its belongings with an orthodox hatred. The i j
signature was as undoubtedly his as my signature is undoubtedly my i (i
Kov. 3, 1876.
own. Moreover, he had a peculiar, old-fashioned way of forming his
capitals that would have rendered it impossible for me to produce a
successful imitation, many times as I have seen it. Was I hallucinated ?
In all my life, although of very nervous temperament, I have never been
the victim of a single optical illusion. Moreover, in the ordinary accep¬
tation of the term, I am the least excitable of men; my eye has been
trained for years to accurate observation with the microscope, and you
well know that such training necessarily involves an accurate and
thoroughly practical acquaintance with the laws of optics. It was, in
other words, almost absolutely impossible for Dr. Slade to practice any
deception; . even a suspicious movement would have been carefully
observed, as I was there for that purpose.
The fact is I was and still am thoroughly sceptical as to the phenomena
of Spiritualism, except in cases where I have personally verified them.
But that the seances of spiritual mediums occasionally involve sources
of intelligence that cannot be explained by the ordinary laws of percep¬
tion is a fact that it is folly to deny. . .. Francis Gerry Fairfield.
New York, Monday, October 9th, 1876.
A LETTER FROM THE EDITOR OF “ THE SPECTATOR.”
The following letter by one of the two editors of The Spectator was
recently published in The Times'^—
Sir,—In your report of this case in to-day’s paper you make me say
that at the first two sittings I was convinced of the “ supernatural ’’
character of the manifestations. There is no such word used in any of
your contemporaries’ reports, and certainly I never used it, and should
think it a great misnomer. These phenomena, if not strictly natural,
are certainly nearer the infra-natural than the supernatural. What I
said was that at those first two sittings I was convinced that the pheno¬
mena were not due to trickery, but to some unexplained source; that at
the third and fourth sittings I became very suspicious of mere fraud;
but that at the last sitting I was nearly reconverted to my previous state
of mind, notwithstanding the appearance of Professor Lankester’s letter
in the interval, and my expectation that I should trace his explanation
in what I saw. If these so-called Spiritualistic facts are, as so many
scientific men have now judged (De Morgan, Crookes, Wallace, Barrett),
no mere illusions, but true, they are most likely purely natural; but
they are important, not for any light they give on great subjects, but as
showing that mind can sometimes act on matter without any contact
between any physical organisation and that matter. But I should as
soon think of going to a Spiritualistic seance for anything really super¬
natural as of going to the Arctic regions for a mild climate.—I am, Sir,
yours obediently, Richard H. Hutton.
Englefield-green, Staines, October 23.
SERIOUS DANGER AVERTED BY A SPIRIT MESSAGE.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—As some proof of Spiritualism to the sceptic who
would he more or less staggered by the extraordinary case
now raging against Dr. Slade, will you give me a small
space in your valuable paper for trustworthy circulation ?
For the past month I have been very ill from bronchitis,
and unable to leave my bed, when one evening my daughter
(Lady L.) came to say good-night, with her baby in her arms,
and, just as she kissed me, I heard distinctly the spirit voice of
my husband say, “ Tell her to wait, and you get up and go
downfirst; do, do.” I,frompastexperience,knowingthatthere
was some danger imminent to this his favourite child, begged
her to sit down and wait,* which she most reluctantly con¬
sented to, as she feared the exposure to me in going
through the cold air. But I got up, and being very weak
I took rather longer to dress, and when I did go down, the
moment I entered the bed-room a fearful crash sounded.
On looking up there I saw more than twelve feet of the
ceiling had fallen right on the bed. Any one piece of the
mortar might have killed both mother and child. Now, I
wonder if Mr. Maskelyne can do this; or can he explain
where the voice came from uttering the same language used
by one loved too dearly to be ever mistaken ? No one can
say <£ imagination,” for a severe bronchial cough leaves no
room for stick pastime, and one would require an Eastern
imagination to fancy the ceiling coming down ; so, will the
Lankesters, and Donkins, and Maskelynes explain this, and
give their explanation publicly through your paper? If
they succeed with this, I will promise to give them dozens of
such experiences, which might somewhat dematerialise
their self-confidence, and lack of courtesy to those so far
progressed in their knowledge of the importance of the use
and abuse of life here. Charlotte Anderson.
Campbell House, Sandown, Isle’of Wight, Oct. 30th, 1876.
Mr. William Oxley is at Huddersfield, making inquiries into the
charge against Dr. Monck, and the antecedents of that medium.
Mrs. Tappan.—Married at her residence in Chicago, Illinois, October
12th, 1876, by C. M. Plumb, Minister of the New Gospel, Mrs. Cora L.
V. Tappan, to Mr. William Richmond, of the same city.
Nov. 3, 1876.
167
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. j
THE SLADE CASE APPEAL. . j
Last Wednesday night, at the usual monthly soiree oi the National |
Association of Spiritualists, the rooms were overcrowded with a large j
and fashionable company. Dr. and Miss Slade and Mr. and Miss
Simmons were among the ladies and gentlemen present, so also were ij
Mr. Charles Carleton Massey and Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne.)
Mr. Alexander Calder, president of the National Association of j
Spiritualists, said: We meet here this evening with mixed feelings, for j
we labour under circumstances of disappointment as well as satisfaction, j
We had every reason to iiope that Dr. Slade would have now been free i
from all restraint, but the powers are against us. The advocacy of Mr. j
Munton, to whom great credit is due for his management of a most ;
novel and difficult case, however forcible, proved insufficient to penetrate i j
the narrow lines laid down in the Police Court. With all deference to i'
the magistrate we must carry the case further. Our friend Dr. Slade, |'
like a brave man in a righteous case, must draw on his stock of patience j (
for the next three months, when his appeal may be heard. While we j1
regret for him this condition of suspense, we take comfort in the thought i J
that things are not worse than they might have been. The efforts made j,
by our learned friend Mr. Massey (whose extreme kindness is above all |1
praise) on behalf of Mr. Simmons, resulted in his rescue from the
charge of conspiracy, and for this we have reason for much thank-
fulness and congratulation. Another reason for rejoicing is the vast
publicity which our cause gains through these proceedings. Herein should
be found a source of great satisfaction to the Spiritualist, and certain men !
of science should remember the extraordinary state of matters they j
have brought about since they, at the Glasgow meeting of the British t
Association, would suppress all observation of Spiritualism from their li
immediate view. This strife has arisen and been overruled by a higher
power than man. Where thousands in America knew of Dr. Slade’s
medial gifts, the millions of Europe may now possess some knowledge of
them. Many materialists will for the first time learn of the existence j'
of a spirit world. They will reflect about that world, and deduce from j'
their speculations that most invaluable of all knowledge, the reality of i
that Greatest of Spirits—God. Odious as Spiritualism appears to some, i1
it has proved to many the seed of eternal life, which, once sown in the i (
heart, leads to purification and holiness. In this conviction we take |i
our stand, with firmness combined with humility. (Applause.)
Mr. W. H. Harrison said: Mr. Flowers, in the course of his decision j,
against Dr. Slade, stated that “palmistry”—the word used in the ;
Vagrancy Act—is defined in Richardson’s dictionary as “Divination by
inspection of the hands, from the roguish tricks of the pretenders to this
art; to palm; to trick, or play a trick; to impose upon, or practise a
trick, imposition, or delusion; more restrictedly, to palm is to hold or |
keep in the palm, to touch with the palm, to handle.” Mr. Flowers
added that “ The definitions given by Johnson and Webster are very j
similar.” Now, as I had always thought palmistry to mean “ telling !
fortunes by the lines of the hand,” I this morning referred to dictionaries
not selected by me from others for a special purpose, but those in daily
use by my printer, and there discovered that Johnson defines palmistry
as “ The cheat of fortune-telling by lines in the palm of the hand ” j
(Oliver and Boyd’s edition, 1834.) Webster defines it as “ Art of telling j
fortunes by the hand” (Routledge, 1856.) Nuttall says, “The telling j
fortunes by the lines on the palm of the hand ” (Warne’s edition.) These j
philologists are known, but who ever heard of Richardson ? Elsewhere I
I found Walker’s 28th edition to give—*■ The cheat of foretelling
fortunes by the lines of the palm.” I have not abbreviated any of the j
definitions, and did not find any resembling Richardson’s. Further, j
Mr. Jencken, the barrister, having informed me that this very question
had already been decided by the Court of Queen’s Bench, I this morning i
searched for the case in the British Museum library, and in The Justice of
the Peace, vol. xxxiii., Nov. 20th, 1869, found that that court had quashed
a justice’s conviction under the Vagrancy Act for palmistry, in which
the defendant had by trick passed coins into a paper. The appellant
contended that palmistry was “ the pretence of reading one’s fortune
from the lines of the hand.’’ Lord Chief Justice Cockburn, J. Mellor,
and J. Hannen concurred, and judgment was given for the appellant.
I am no lawyer, but in this we seem to have also a settlement of the j
Slade case. The obsolete act of George II. quoted by Mr. Flowers is
an offshoot of the old witchcraft Acts, which enactments, so far
as I can ascertain, have never been connected with the Vagrancy j
Acts, nor is the verbiage of the two sentences he compares related; in j
fact, Mr. Flowers almost apologises for referring to the older law, which
I can see no adequate reason for his importing into his statement, anymore
than the remarkable quotation from a solitary dictionary by Richardson. ]
As to Dr. Slade, who for fifteen years has been before the public, and
has made such hosts of influential friends, all Spiritualists feel not the
slightest inclination to desert him on the assertions of Messrs. Lankester
and Donkin; there was nobody present to check their statements except j
the table, and what they swore and wrote about that table ought to be
subjected to the severest criticism, for the table itself is there to measure
their accuracy. Then, again, the statement about the writing coming
on the illuminated or under side of the slate, requires bringing into bold
relief. Every Spiritualist knows that the writing requires partial
darkness. Would Dr. Slade then dare, if tricking for once, to
do such a thing before somebody whom he believed to be
a Spiritualist? Again, is it not a physical impossibility and an absur¬
dity to imagine that writing can be done with a fragment of pencil
under the finger nail, quite apart from the further alleged fact, published
in the Times, of its being produced on the wrong side of the slate.
Altogether, in my opinion, every person of truth and honour who knows !
anything of psychology, as distinguished from the dead level of popular
ignorance, should rally round the modem Galileo—the American gen¬
tleman now sojourning in this exceedingly hospitable nation.
Nothing more was said, and the business proceedings then closed.
THE SLADE PROSECUTION.
The following is the close of the case for the prosecution,
quoted from last Saturday’s Daily Telegraph. We have not
been able to quote the evidence for the defence from that
journal, it was so imperfectly done; the Standard did it well
considering the short time at command ;—
On Friday the two defendants, Henry or Dr. Slade, Spiritualist, of 8, Upper
Bedford-place, and Geoffrey Simmons, again appeared in answer to a summons
charging them in effect with having, on September 15th, conspired, and by subtle
craft, and divers means and devices, obtained money from Professor E. Ray Lan¬
kester and Dr. Donkin, with intent to defraud them. The defendant Slade was
also charged under the Vagrancy Act. As on previous occasions, the court was
crowded by ladies and gentlemen interested in the case, amongst whom Professor
Wallace, Dr. Carter Blake, Mrs. Blake, Mr. Enmore Jones, Mrs. Weldon, Dr.
Wylde, Mr. Wedgwood, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. G. Bohn, Mr. Williams, Rev.
W. Newbould, Mrs. Desmond Fitzgerald, Mr. F. Joad, Mr. A. Joy, and other well-
known Spiritualists, were present.
Mr. George Lewis appeared to prosecute. Mr. Munton, solicitor, defended.
Slade ; and Mr. Massey, barrister, was for the defendant Simmons.
Mrs. P. Lankester, called and examined by Mr. Lewis: Where do you reside ?—
At Belsize-park.
You are the widow of the late Dr. Lankester, coroner for Middlesex, and the
mother of Professor Lankester ?—I am.
I believe you come here against your own inclination ?—Yes; solely at my son’s
request, having great objection to the publicity of these proceedings.
Did you go to 8, Upper Bedford-place?—Yes; on September 15th, with a
friend.
Were you shown into a front room?—I was, and there I saw the defendant
Simmons. I conversed with my friend. He said, “ Have you seen anything of
this sort before ? ” I replied, “ I have seen the planchette act, and I must say that
a message signed 1 Phoebe ’ rather staggered me.” After that observation Slade
appeared in the room, and spoke to Simmons. I did not listen to what they said.
A few moments elapsed, and then Slade asked us to follow him into a back room.
I sat at a table opposite to Slade, and my friend was on my left hand. He sat
with his back to the window, and said, “ We will see if there are any spirits here.”
He told us what he tells everybody, I suppose, that his wife was there.
But his wife was not there ?—Well, somebody was said to be there when he
spoke about a message.
You don’t mean the body of his wife, but her spirit?—Her spirit, of course.
He also said that two objectionable young men had been there previously, that one
of them had taken away the slate very rudely, and that he should like to kick his
head. (A laugh.)
Did you hear any spirit manifestations ?—I heard raps coming from the centre
of the table. Slade asked my friend if we would write the name of any one who
was departed, and we declined to do so. He then put a slate under the table, and
after some interval we heard the scratching of writing, and he pulled the slate out.
with one of its sides tolerably well covered with writing. The writing was signed
“ Allie.” It was a message, saying, “ I am glad to see you—we spirits are pleased
to meet with true believers ”—Slade thought that we were true believers—“ we
have our feelings in our present state as we had in the other world, and we do not
like to be abused.” (Laughter.)
Was any other message produced?—My friend said to Slade, “ You don’t object,
I suppose, to use my own slate ? I have brought a double one with me.” Slade
replied, “ Well, it is sometimes difficult to do so, but we will try.” My friend pro¬
duced a double slate, which he had purchased on our way, and Slade placed it
under tne table. After some time I heard a little scratching, and then Slade with¬
drew the slate, and said “ Read.” I read the writing, “ I am glad to meet you; I
am ever with you, Phoebe.” I was startled, and said with a shudder, “Oh,
• Phoebe! ” Slade observed, “ Do you know the name? ” and I answered, “Well,
it is my own.” He said, “ Have you friends in the spirit-land of that name ? ” and
I replied, “ Many.” “ I thought so,” said he. Then I said, “ Dr. Slade, I should
like to know which Phoebe is meant—the surname, if you please.” He said he
would try, and again he placed the slate under the table. After a little time we
heard more scratching, and on the slate being withdrawn there appeared the mes¬
sage, “ We cannot write any more to-day—Allie.” (Laughter.)
Did it occur to you that you had previously mentioned the word Phoebe ?—No;
I was astonished and startled at first, but afterwards I recollected that I had men¬
tioned the name in the outer room whilst Simmons was there.
How much money was paid ?—I gave Simmons a sovereign, and then he asked
for another in payment for my friend, and it was paid him, making £2 in all.
Cross-examined by Mr. Munton: Did you go there on the same day that your
son went ?—Yes; I had heard that he had been there on the Monday previous,
and was told what had occurred. He told me on the 15th that he was going again
to inquire about the spirits, and I went there with the same motive. He did not
explain what kind of table was used; but he told me that he had been there with
Dr. Donkin, and had pulled the slate away. He did not direct me what to do, but
treated my visit as I did, merely one of curiosity. According to my son’s theory
Dr. Slade is an impostor, and I wished to ascertain the fact for myself.
Did you consider Slade an impostor ?—I had not made up my mind what he was.
I did not take my son’s opinion, but wished to judge for myself. Certainly I had
a strong conviction that he was an impostor, but I had not made up my mind on that
point. I had a conviction that it was all impossible. If I had known that Slade
was performing a conjuring trick I should very likely have gone to see him, the
same as I go to see Mr. Maskelyne. I don’t know particularly why I went. I
suppose it was because I had promised to go. Certainly I should not have paid
him a sovereign for what I saw. I might have gone into a penny show to see as
much.
Do you recognise the table ?—It looks very like it.
Were you sitting at the legs or the flaps ?—At the flap, I believe.
You say that Slade told you that he should like to have kicked one of the young
men on the head who had rudely taken away the slate. Do you think he said any¬
thing like that ?—Do I think! Why I heard it. What do you mean ? (Laughter.)
Did his words not strike you as being remarkable—that he should have liked to
kick somebody on the head ?—Well, I thought it was an American expression."
(I.aughter.) He was very indignant and upset, and he said that the young men
had been there and had accused him of writing on the slate with a piece of pencil
in his finger-nail. He said, “ See my nails—they are much too short to hold a*
piece of pencil.” 1 did not tell him of course who the young men were, as one
was my son. (Laughter.) Slade further observed that he did not think there
would be any demonstration that day.
Slade, you say, put the slate under the table ?—Yes; and there it remained for
a very short time—two or three seconds perhaps. The message must have
been rapidly written ; * it was written in so short a time. It was a long message.
A side of the slate was tolerably covered with writing. It might have been a
minute. I cannot charge my memory exactly as to the time.
Was the slate placed against the table —Yes, with a piece of pencil, and I heard
the sound of writing.
Did you notice any manipulation with the slate ?—I saw nothing but the thumb.
When you speak of a double slate, do you mean one folding like a book?—Yes.
My friend handed it to him. There was no writing on it. Slade put it on the
table. Then he got up and walked to a little cabinet, and presently he came to us
again, and commenced biting the end of a slate pencil. I observed, “ Why, you
168
THE S PI RITUALIST.
Nov. 3, 1876.
will break all your teeth, if you go biting the pencil like that.” But he continued
biting until he obtained a piece to please him. When he placed the slate beneath
the table, he commenced working himself into contortions, and my friend was
banged on the knee and chest—(laughter)—whilst Slade said, “ Excuse me, I am
not doing it; it is the spirits.” (Laughter.) Again he twisted himaelf about, and
then he pulled out the slate and handed it to me. Whilst we were leaning over
the table he said he had a great pain in his side, and he wriggled and worked
himself about in an extraordinary manaer. (Laughter.) The slate was pushed
against my friend when it was under the table, and Slade observed that it was not
his fault. Sometimes he held the table apparently tight, whilst he worked his
body in a peculiar manner.
You found writing on the inner part of the slate ?—Yes.
Do you say that Slade opened the slate in any waj ?—I don’t know what he did.
I heard the scratching. He handed the slate to me, and I opened it and saw the
writing.
Have you heard anything about thought-writing ?—Yes, about clairvoyance.
Do you know that a name which is in the mind of any one of the sitters some¬
times appears on the slate ?—I have heard that some people believe it.
Did you see Slade write a single word ?—No; I did not see him write, nor was
there anything which induced me to say that he did.
Cross-examined by Mr. Massey: Was your friend a relative of yours ?—No;
merely an intimate friend.
Does he call you Mrs. Lankester ?—Yes.
I assure you my object is not impertinence in asking you such a question. How
many people were in the outer room when you entered?—Several men were
talking to Simmons. They appeared like people who had been sitting and were
dissatisfied.
Are you able to account for the Blanchette message?—Well, what I observed at
Slade’s might enable me to understand what I had seen previously. I do not wish
to go into the question of Spiritualism ; I am here at a special request.
Were you induced to part with your money by any statement which Simmons
made to you ?—I did not part with my money : my friend paid. I was induced to
visit Slade after I had read the article in the World, and the money was parted
with as it would have been had we gone to any other show. (Laughter.) My
friend volunteered to take me there.
Had you any representations from the defendants as to. the spirits writing these
things before you went ?—When in the first room Slade spoke, and represented to
me that whatever I saw in the next room would be done by spirits—understand
that. (Laughter.)
Re-examined by Mr. Lewis : Did you in any way act in collusion with your
son ?—No ; I went there quite independently of him. My appointment was made
earlier than my son’s first visit. In fact, he was at Oxford at the time. It was
purely a coincidence that my son and I went on the Friday. I have been to see
conjuring whenever I wished to amuse myself.
Mr. Flowers: Did Simmons speak to you about the writing ?—Ho addressed us
after the men had left the room. Then he introduced Slade, and they spoke
together. Next Slade sat down near to us, and told us that they had had a terrible
morning, that there had been a disturbance, and so on.
When you told your friend that the word “ Phoebe ” in the planchette act had
Startled you, were both the defendants present ?—No, only Simmons.
Mr. William John Hinde (Child and Hinde, cabinet-makers, Euston-road) said
that his firm were well known for certain articles they manufactured. The Slade
table was made by them at a cost of £2 3s. fid. It was made of ash, and according
to the order taken by his foreman, Clark.
Mr. Massey said he would admit that Simmons ordered the table.
Examination continued : The table was of peculiar make, inasmuch as it had a
stick bracket in the centre. Had never had one made like it before. Simmons
was a stranger to the firm. They made automatic magic bolts, and Simmons
might have thought they could make a spiritual table. (Laughter.)
By Mr. Munton: The one stick bracket was not used in a common table.
Cross-examined by Mr. Massey: With the exception of brackets, the table was
not different to that made to any other order for a Pembroke table. If that bracket
was pulled over, it was possible to make a fixture to it. (Mr. Hinde here Showed
the court the mode in which a slate might be fixed between the bracket and the
leaf simply by depressing one side of the flap.)
By Mr. Lewis: Would not have made a table for himself with one bracket.
Edward Clark, foreman to Childe and Hinde, examined by Mr. Lewis, said he
had been in the firm for about eleven years. Remembered Simmons ordering a
table on Monday, July 17, in the present year. He told witness he wanted a
Pembroke table, but on being shown some said, “Not one of that class.” He sat
in front of the table, and said, “I want one to measure 3ft. 8in.the ordinary
size was 3 ft. 3 in. He was particular that there should be no drawers. There
were two finger brackets, but he ordered those to be dispensed with, and only one
support in the centre. Witness suggested that this was not sufficient, and Sim¬
mons told him to mind his own business. Slade’s name was not mentioned. He
had never seen another one-stick bracket to a table since he had been in the firm.
By Mr. Massey : Was not aware that the description of table in court was
common in America. Had no experience in trick tables. The table had not appa¬
rently been altered since it left the shop.
By Mr. Munton : The table frame was the usual frame, and was made by his
firm. The statement made on a previous day that the table was without a frame
was, of course, quite a mistake, as it was not possible to make a table without a
frame.
By Mr. Lewis : The ordinary brackets of a Pembroke table would not revolve,
in the same way as the stick brackets. With side brackets and the amount of
play in the leaf a slate could be placed under either of them.
Robert J oseph Catchpole, examined by Mr. Lewis, said he worked for Messrs.
Childe and Hinde, and made the table ordered by Simmons. It was an ordinary
« Pembroke,” made in the usual way, with the exception of a slight alteration
made in consequence of the instructions of the foreman being temporarily altered
by one of the firm, who thought that a single-stick bracket was a mistake.
Mr. Lewis : That is all the evidence I have to bring forward.
Mr. Flowers: The last evidence has altered the case a good deal. Until this
morning I looked upon it that there was no evidence to support the case. There
was no evidence previously to show that Simmons was anything more than an
ordinary servant, but the fact of his ordering the table in a particular way of
making alters the case.
Mr. Lewis stated that Professor Lankester had brought the matter forward at
his own risk with a view of serving a public end. He had no private end to gain,
and whatever the course might be that his worship decided upon, it would make
very little pecuniary difference to Professor Lankester. Therefore it was im¬
material to the Professor, and he did not wish any particular mode adopted in
eliciting the truth. It had been shown that Simmons was present on the occasion
referred to, and that he received the money. If his worship did not think there
was sufficient evidence to connect Simmons with Slade, Mr. Lewis was sure he
(Mr. Flowers) would deal with him as the case required.
Mr. Massey urged that there was no evidence upon which the Court could
commit the defendant Simmons for trial on the charge of conspiracy. The points
brought before the Court that morning did not, he felt convinced, supply one
scintilla of evidence upon which the defendant could be convicted.
Mr. Flowers remarked that if there had been no further evidence he would not
have troubled Mr. Massey, but the evidence of the morning altered the aspect
of affairs. A table different to any other table in certain respects had been
ordered.
.Mr. Massey: The table differs only in one respect, viz., that it has a centre piece .
instead of a double bracket. Mr. Massey then went on to urge that there was
nothing extraordinary on the part of his client in ordering the table, because it was
quite cieit that it was ordered for Dr. Slade. He maintained that the case against
his client had not been advanced in the least, because he was acting under the
orders of Slade.,
Mr. Flowers: There was one other point with regard to the signature of the
name ^/Phoebe.” Mr. Lankester has said that Slade was out of the room during
part of the'time, and that name might have been supplied by Simmons to Slade.
Mr. Massey remarked that in his opinion he was right in contending that there
was no evidence whatever to convict the defendants, and that it was unnecessary
to expend public money and time in the matter.
Mr. Lewis: The public money is not involved.
Mr. Flowers said if there was sufficient evidence in his own mind to support the
case, it would be his duty to send the matter to a jury.
A desultory discussion followed, in which Mr. Massey contended that there were
two distinct charges, and that even if they took the whole case there was no
evidence.)
Mr. Munton observed that the case against Slade, under the Vagrancy Act, had
never been gone into.
Mr. Flowers said every word that had been given was under the Vagrancy Act.
Mr. Munton replied that the defendant was never called upon to reply to the
charge, and produced the shorthand writers’ notes in support of his statement.
Mr. Lewis: Practically, it amounts to whether I am proceeding against one or
both. I am proceeding upon the summons against both of them.
Mr. Flowers here remarked that he had considered the matter, as he had already
made one false step, and did not wish to make another. He should like to make
up his mind upon the subject of conspiracy. He had had a strong feeling that
against Simmons there was not sufficient evidence to send him for trial, and, that
being so, if nothing had been said that morning such a charge would have fallen
to the ground.
After some further discussion, Mr. Flowers left the bench to consider the case,
and the court was adjourned for luncheon.
On reassembling at twenty-five minutes past two,
Mr. Flowers said he had considered the matter as well as he could with regard
to conspiracy, and he thought he could hardly call upon the defence to go into
that. As far as the Vagrancy Act went he conceived there was a strong primS-
facie case against the defendant Slade. Although there was something in respect
of the table, it might be said that Simmons acted under the instructions
of a master, and, therefore, he should dismiss the summons against him for con¬
spiracy.
Mr. Massey asked what would be done with regard to costs.
Mr. Flowers thought he had better not say anything about that. With - respect
to Slade, he considered there was a prima-facie case against him under the
Vagrancy Act, especially as far as the prosecution by Professor Lankester and
Mr. Donkin was concerned. He did not see how it was relevant to show that at
other times, and on other occasions, things happened in Slade’s presence which, to
those who had witnessed them, were capable of being explained by natural causes.
The questions he had to decide were—Did Slade with his own hand write the
words on the slate, and, if he did, did he thereby, under certain circumstances,
use a subtle craft and device clandestinely to deceive and impose upon Professor
Lankester and others ? That was the simple issue he had to try.
Mr. Munton said that perhaps it would be convenient if the learned magistrate
dealt with the law of the case. He understood that, notwithstanding what had
occurred on the first occasion, when the defendants appeared on the charge of
conspiracy, Slade was before him only on the specific summons under the
Vagrancy Act.
Mr. Flowers intimated that what he proposed to do now was to have the evi¬
dence read over, in order that the depositions might be handed over, as was usual
in an ordinary summary conviction. He would do all he could to assist the de¬
fence. (Applause.)
Mr. Munton said that he had taken the course he had been strongly advised
to. If the magistrate took the course proposed he should ask no more,
considering that it would be freed from all responsibility with regard to a
criminal trial.
Mr. Flowers inquired if anything else suggested itself, as Simmons was no
longer there.
Mr. Munton replied he might have to call him as a witness. All he wished was
that the strict course of the law might be followed.
Mr. Flowers intimated that he would take the responsibility, and that if he was
wrong so much the better would it be for the defence.
The depositions of the several witnesses were then read over, and occupied a
considerable time.
Mr. Munton interrupted the reading of the depositions, objecting to that mode
of taking evidence, and asked that the proper course might be taken.
Mr. Flowers: Your objections are too late.
Mr.Munton: Would you take, sir, the responsibility of deciding the present
case upon the evidence given in another case ?
Mr. Flowers : I will take the responsibility, and you shall take the exception.
Mr. Lewis said the witnesses had been sworn when their evidence was given.
Mr. Flowers: You had better not try to put me right.
Mr. Munton: I do not wish to do so, sir; I only ask that you will take notice
of my objection.
Mr. Flowers remarked that Mr. Munton should have made his objections before.
Mr. Munton said he had already done so. He did not understand which case his
worship was trying.
Mr. Flowers: I am trying the case under the Vagrancy Act.
Mr. Munton thought if witnesses were selected from the other case it was neces¬
sary that they should give evidence in the proper way.
Mr. Flowers: I only wish to have that which is material, and there is, of course,
much that is immaterial.
Mr. Lewis: On a previous occasion I have stated that summonses have been
before the Court, and the evidence taken in the usual way. If your worship
thought it just to commit defendants for conspiracy you would do so; if not you
would take the other course.
Mr. Munton: I would rather have the explanation from the bench.
Mr. Flowers said he had taken the evidence in both oases, and had dismissed
the first, and had now taken into consideration the second charge.
Mr. Lewis : Mr. Munton knows he can make an appeal, if he has any objection.
Mr. Munton: Then, under the Vagrancy Act, the defendant pleads “ Npt
guilty,” and wishes to hear the evidence.
Mr. Flowers asked if Mr. Munton would like the case adjourned, in order that
he might commence his address in the morning ?
Mr. Munton was prepared to make his speech for the defence at once. He
wished to know, however, upon what evidence he had to reply ?
Mr. Flowers said that Mr. Lewis confined his case to the testimony of Professor
Lancaster, Dr. Donkin, and the witness Qatchpole.
Mr. Munton observed that he could not, consistently with what he had stated
previously, waive anything.
Mr. Flowers : Don’t waive anything, but go on. (A laugh.)
At a quarter to four, the further hearing of the case was adjourned until
Saturday, ^ ^ .
Marriage.—On Tuesday, October 24th, at the New Jerusalem Church,
Camberwell, by the Eev. A. Austin, W. H. A. Peake, eldest.son of J. Peake,
Esq., Crown solicitor, Ireland, to Mary Ann Emma Sexton, daughter of
Dr. Sexton.
Nov. 3, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the Knglish and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Kussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and Ttie Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
ether.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. fid.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
'WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. fid.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spirituai phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmouds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general Information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,nlso about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly^published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitiens,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritnal-
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com-
£lete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
iord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo„ 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
tnrdiumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would stale them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not he taken for
Granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
hs light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work alsp
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it Is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-8upematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodou and other
•xtinct animals as if Uving and moving before them-; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
lortions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
hh&bitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by tha
sensitives aa the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ Tha Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that thera is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient Intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to tha reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the saliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses tbs opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication ahould be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumehipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation Is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a’trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
•f his life oa earth. Best edition, gilt, Its. M.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. i
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author :
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
aro included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFK By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam, fis
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces :
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. ;
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduetion by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
Tills book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. Ss.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
„ 3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, fis. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. OONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Bev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARGANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET —3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OP THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications frem many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post,
fis. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, MD. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This werk gamed the prize offered for com-
petitle* ky the Milan Seelety far the Encouragement of Arts
and ScieaMSt (Pub, at fs. fid.) 4s..
in
THE COMING MAN. By the. Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the "Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III, „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . ,
The Thinker. ,, V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . .
Approaching Crisis; or, Trnth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-reeurring Questions from the People
Children's Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Cri
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . .
s. d.
. 16 0
. 7 6
. 7 8
.76
. 7 «
. 7 6
.76
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 0
. 2 0
. 3 8
. 8 8
.76
. 3 fi
.76
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
.76
.76
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
. 3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
i. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . |   H
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spibitualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . ,66
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . , , ,60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . , 13 0
The Romantic Histoiy of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 6
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. 10 0
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted hy Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or. A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert fi. Coliyer, M.D. . r 2 0
The Dervishes: or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . ■ 12 8
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools . , , . . 1 fi
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaafi B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 0. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear, is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas E.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman oi Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolvhus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmouds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3c’.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the medium sli ip of Dr. 0. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning, fid.
THli ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. E. T.
Halleck. 2s,
Ir
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 3, 1876,
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM. PSYCHOLOGY
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spritnalist News-
aper Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
ondon, W.G. •
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of (he National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
. LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex-
tenced her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of: : the . inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences,' under direct spirit influence. Several of
them 'ate attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions' in" earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means bywhich these poems are given
to the world. ' The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY and Rich, London Spirit¬
ualty Office. V
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about an'mal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers hkve done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge, We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena Of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their Accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualistsewnpuper Branch Office.
ANNALT DELLO SPIRTTMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post tree Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOt ATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spin's concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kaedeo. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
X> EFLEXIONEN A US DER GEISTER-
JL\t WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Jot efstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCR E STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsie: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Another Work on Occult Spiritism,
By the Author of
“ART MAGIC.” •
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
. 89, Great Marlborough Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. TlNEL as a
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTORIUM. For Organ, 4s.
JOAN OF ARO. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.B.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 6s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Ohidiock Tichborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose, 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, 6d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS TBEHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
■ To the Cuckoo, 6d.
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll. Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien’s
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary's Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 6s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED OELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie's Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 6s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit oj Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Hanaqeb—Mbs. A. G. Burke.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES.
MR. T. P. BARKAS, F.G.S.,
Begs to announce that he proposes to deliver a series of SIX
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES, in the Lecture Room,
Nelson-street, Newoastle-on-Tyne. on the Thursday evenings
of each week, commencing shortly.
Doors open each evening at 7 o’clock; Chair to be taken
at 7.30.
LECTURE I.—The Worshipful the Mayor will preside.
Subject—“The Scientific Principles involved in raising the
Vanguard, and a criticism of the methods proposed.”
LECTURE IT.—Thos. Foster, Esq., Sheriff of Newcastle, will
preside. Subject—“Pneumatics; or, the Laws and Pro¬
perties of Air and other Gases, with remarks on the Navi¬
gation of the Air.”
LECTURE ITL—Councillor H. W. Newton will preside.
Subject—“ The Structure and Functions of the Brain and
Nervous System, comparative and human.”
LECTURE IV.—Councillor J. O. Scott will preside. Subject—
“ The Latest News from the Stars.”
LECTURE V.—Councillor W. Stewart will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its Histdhy and Philosophy.”
LECTURE VI.—Alderman Gregson will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its Modern Applications.”
These Lectures will occupy about one hour each, and at the
conclusion of each Lecture, relevant questions will he
answered.
The Lectures will he Ulustrated by diagrams and models.
Terms of Admission by Ticket, to be had of Mr. Barkas, Art
Gallery, and Mr. Blake,*49, Grainger-street. Front Seats, 2s. 6d.
the course; Unreserved Seats, Is. 6d. the course.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF
INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
QUEBEC HALL,
26, Gbeat Quebec Street, Marylebone Road.
October 5th, 1876.
At the Committee Meeting of the above Association, held in
their Hall on Thursday, the 6th inst., it was proposed, “ That
at the next quarterly meeting of the Association to be held on
Sunday, November the 26th, a Conference of metropolitan
societies he convened for the purpose of co-operation and
expressing fraternal greetings.” In order that the proceedings
may be conducted in a systematic manner, a meeting will be
held on Thursday, the 19th inst., at the above hall, at 7 p.m.
for 8 pm. All Spiritualists interested are cordially invited to
be present; those unable to do so by kindly communicating
with, the secretaries their opinion will be put before the
meeting.
W. O. DRAKE, & G. F. TILBY, Hon. Secs.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President.
HENRY- D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
V ice-President.
MBS. AMELIA CORNER.
Codxoil.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticatsd
facts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by vanous means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinal y experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances yrith professional media, lectures, discus¬
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of th«
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
formation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
DR. SLADE.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten begs to announce that she has
een privileged to prepare for the Press another work by the
uthor of Art Magic, entitled
GHOST-LAND;
Or,
Researches into the Mysteries op Occult Spiritism.
Hlustrated in a series of autobiographical papers, with
extracts from the records of
MAGICAL SEANCES, &0., &0,
Translated and edited by Emma Hardinoe Britten.
This magnificent and thrilling record of spiritual exneriences
vas prepared for and commenced in the Western Star Borne
four years ago. Since the suspension of that periodical—
necessitated by the Boston fires—Mrs. Hardinge Britten has
been. repeatedly solicited to publish the admired and fasci-
I'ating f Ghost Land ” papers in a connected series. The great
demand for another hook from the author of Art Magic, the
earnest desive of the subscribers to that celebrated work to
know more about i>s author, and the interest which exists at
the present hour in philosophical and progressive views of
Spiritualism, comb;ne to induce the Editor to put forth the
presehi highly instructive and wonderful volume, with the
special view of meeting the above requirements.
Price 12s. Orders may be sent to W. H. Harrison, 88, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O.
mHE REL1GIO-PHILOSOPHICAL
X JODRNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modern Spiritualism. Established in 1865.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price tiousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
111.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTIC 4. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S., X.Y.Z. B.I.G.A.S.S.,and hisassi-tant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
0 PUBLISHERS’ ASSISTANTS.—Wanted,
An intelligent ASSISTANT, aged about 15, experienced
in publishing work, and quick at accounts. Apply, stating
terms, and in own handwriting, to W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
HIGH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Laukester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin • Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. O. O. Massey,
barri^ter-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Siade.—2Jd.. post free.
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Mora),
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is. IJd.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. ALLEN, Aye
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
