AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[BEGISTEBED FOB TRANSMISSION ABEOADJ
No. 113.—(Vol. V.—No. 17.) LONDON: OCTOBER 23, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Obivalric Spirit     ...’19
Other World Order. By William White, author of the Life of Sweden¬
borg    19
Spirit Teachings. No. XX    1®
Mrs. Jenclten’s Departure for America ...  19'
Spiritualism at the Chelsea Literary Institution:—Dr. Maurice Davies'
Experiences in Spiritualism—Spiritna'ism and Ministers of Religion
—Mr. S. O. Hall on Spiritualism and Christianity—Mr. Algernon Joy
on spiritualism and Christianity—The Rev. J. Robbins on Scientific
Spiritualism—What Constitutes Reliable Evidence ? ... ...
A Speculative Lecture on Spiritual Philosophy:—Spiritualism not a
Physical Science—Spiritualism and Darwinianism—The Laws of the
Soul—Dreams—Clairvoyan. e—Time and Space  201
Meeting in Marylebone on National Association • ... 202
Correspondence:—A Public Building for Spiritualists — Scientific
Materialism — History of Spiritualism in Clerkenwell — Ancient
Egyptian -piritualism   ...    203
Answers to Cur respondents      204
Paragraphs—Mrs. Tappan’s Lectures, 196; Sunday Lectures at Hol-
b»rn. 198; Spiritual Man festations in Birmingham, 198; Sunday
Meetings at Goswell ball, 198; Sunday Lectures id Brighton, 204;
Metropolitan Sunday Lectures, 204; Spiritualism in Germany 204
198
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 $ 26 Viet., cap. 89 )
. 42, POULTRY (OORNER OP OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
SIMPLE POEM OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
if preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray Bart.. James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray. Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
William Berry, Esq., John Brown, Esq., Courtenay Clarke, Esq., Arthur
lago, Esq., Lord Frederick H. Kerr. M. E. Marsden, Esq., R. B. Martin,
Esq., M.A., P S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White,'Esq.,
Major J. O. Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., P.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Actuaries.
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Mart n and Co, 68, Lombard-street,
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffin).
Managing Director.—''Hr. William Burr, F.R.S.
CLASS.
‘A. B ’’Insuringa sum
if Kilhd, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
“ A.” Death only.
‘ B.” Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
£
1000
500
250
100
1000
500
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
£ s d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
10 0
0 0
0 0
Partial
Disable¬
ment.
£ s. d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
£ s. d
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
110
0 11 6
1 10 0 220
0 18 0 1 30
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
£ s, d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
12 6
0 12 6
Pat mt
within
Two Yrs
£ a d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
12 6
0 12 6
AGENT—MR. THOMAS BLYTON,
12, t>t. Phillp’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.'
Established 1833.
Orders executed ont he shortest notica Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
BERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spirituali ts of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at *h<=ir disposal
the means of sys’ematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known th« positive results arrived at.bv careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneBcial influence which th-se
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of 1 ocal and Provincial Societies or not and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Louis Freeman. V ork-hill Farm, Lough ton, Essex, of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
N.E.—THE SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE CURRENT YEAR, 1874, WILL NOT BE
CLAIMED from MEMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.
A THIRD SERIES OF
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
Committee.
Alexander Calder. Esq.. The Elms. Putney-hill, S.W.—Ch9irma.n.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq.. Portman Chambers, Portman-square. W!; Dr.
Gullv, Bedf rd-hill, Balham, S.W.: Mrs. Horn wood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.;'Martin R. Smifh, Esq.. HeathLnds Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq , 136, Euston-road, N.W.: G N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridg->. Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s lor-square, W.C.
(Hon. Secretary and Treasurer.)
THE above ladies and gentlemen encouraged by the
success which attended the two former courses of lectures Inst
season by Mrs. Tappan, have formed thems -lves into a committee wuh
power to add to their number for engaging that Lady for the whole of the
coming season.
There will he 36 lectures, commencing on the 25th of October, and
ending in June next, divided into courses of twelve each, which will be
delivered on Sunday evenings at The Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer
street, Portland-place.
A subscriber of £5 for the whole series will be entitled to a reserved
seat for himself and a friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures will be issued at
24s., and 12s. each.
There will be a limited number of 6d. tickets.
All seats not claimed five minutes before delivery of the address will he
filled up if required.
Tickets to he obtained only of the Secretary and Treasurer, on enclosing
post office order. Single Tickets will be sold at the doors.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed oil Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, bnt without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No, -'9 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially foi the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T> EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologigries,
_L\l fond& par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Snciete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 23, 1874
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
president.—James Wason tEsq. Vice-President—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary—Mr. Edwaid Hope, 74, huesell-s'reet, Liverpool.
Treasurer —Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lament, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. G. Wharmby. Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. R. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Rieo.e, Mr. Davie, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation,
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.— By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, rr ading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary. 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
■ A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
0 THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
OF Spiritualists. By Alqernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
A“NIMAL-MAGNETISM^AND-MAGNETIC LUCID
SOMNAMBULISM, wilh Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee. M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at Ss. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,’’&c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6 i., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction by J. M. GuL'.y, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10. Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Baillibre & Co., King William-street, Strand.
Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d., or with gilt edges 4s.
THE ANGELS.
contents.
I.—What are Angels ? II.—The Origin of Angels, III.—Seership, IV.—
The Intermediate State. V.—Will the natural body rise? VI.—What do the
Angels do ? (1). For men on earth; (2) For spirits in the world of spirits;
(3) In Heaven.
James Speirs, 36, Bloomsbury-street, London.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, ani 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the thilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbiuditg, Printing, &c. Circul-tiug library, w 11 supplied with all the
mo tern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Spiritualism and reform. “The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Cent iry. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 debars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. T iree Months, 75 cents.
O. & K. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progrestive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
THUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTBER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo„ p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, clotb, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a ne w Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and l irections of Human Development—The Slg
nifleance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubnbr & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-bill. 
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
The following discussions will he held at these Rooms as follows :—
Wednesday, Oct.lAth.—“ Is it expedient to retain the present fashion of
English spelling ? ” Opened by Mr. Bull.
Wednesday, Oct. 21 at.—“Cremation.’’ Opened by Mr. Paul.
Wednesday, Oct. 28fA—“ Is everlasting punishment taught in the New
Testament?” Opened by Mr. Hunt.
Wednesday. Nov. 4th.—“ Capital punishment.” Opened by Mr. Moore.
Admission 2d. Commence at 8 o'clock.
C. J. Hunt, Secretary.
GOSWELL HALL.
IVTRS. BULLOCK (Trance Speaker) will LECTURE
JL*JL on SUNDAY EVENINGS (commencing on the 27th of September),
at GOSWELL HALL, 86, Gosweil-road, E C.
Lectures on the following Subjects will be given by Mbs. BULLOCK,
under the Influence of her Spirit-guides: —
October 4th. “ Death Destroyed; or, Man’s Eternal Career proved by
Modern Spiritualism.”
October 11th.—“Nature, and the Laws of Nature; the Lesson of Life.”
October 18th.—“The essence of the Spiritof God.”
October 25th.—“The Unity of Spiritual Truths."
November 1st.—“The Celestial Heaven.”
After this Course subjects for Lectures may be selected by the
Audience. Doors open at 6 30, service at 7. Investigators and others,
desiring information, may communicate with Mr. JOHN W. HAXBY, 8,
Sandall-road, Camden Town, N. w.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, dec
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-streot, London, E.C.
USTRALlAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
8,11 parts of the world. Subscnotion, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
“PINE’S SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.”
THIS is so popular that orders are coming in rapidly
from all parts of the Queendom. So send your orders as soon as
possible, accompanied with a P. O. order, as follows:—For No 1, £2 7s. 6d.
No. 2, £1 12s. 6d; No. 3, 17s. 6d.; No. 4, 10s.; addressed to CLEMENT
PINE, Taunton-road, Bridgwater.
1!{.B.—Tbe above prices include a box (2s. Cd.) in which are full instruc¬
tions, returnable as therein directed, excepting the No. 4. All orders will
be executed in rotation as promptly as possible.'
PENTON TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
26, PENTON-STREET, N.
EVERITT & SON desire the attention of their friends and the public
generally to the new and varied stock of Autumn and winter goods they
have just received.
Strong durable hard wearing overcoats from 35s.
Strong winter trousers from 14s 6d.
We have a large stock of fancy materials suitable for every article of
Gentlemen’s attire.
Our £2 2s. woaded black cloth frock coats and £1 black doe trousers
which have given such great satisfaction for the last twenty-five years, are
still noted for good quality and durability.
.4 trial is respectfully solicited.
J[ tx\ yrtrjrm uJJ l|i Jtttir uij
VOLUjVlE FIVE. ]HUJVIBEF^ SEVENTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23rd, 1874.
Cjre <^piniualxsf
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the. first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of “ The Spiritualist" in
London or in theprovinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Afr. E. JV. Allen. 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals;—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 3S3. Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco —Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A. Durham, news agent, &C., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Genrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruaswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt. Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T..Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America. Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
JJ1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1.—To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2—To provide educs ted women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
THE CHIVALRIC SPIRIT.
Spiritualism is doing a great work in this hard,
materialistic age, by bringing back some of the poetry
to daily life; for if it does not resuscitate the age when
fairies danced beneath the greenwood bough, and when
elves and imps swung upon the aspen sprays, it never¬
theless shows that guardian angels and the fairy-land of
the spirit are not mere dreams; that the vision which
to the wearied soul appears to be too bright for earth,
may become the reality of the future. Time always
throws a halo of romance over the realities of the past;
and perhaps it is well that it is so. It may be for the
best that youthful minds should look upon the Crusaders,
as men who went forth to battle and to die on Paynim
shore for the sake of principles which they believed to
be true, for the sake of their religion and of their God,
rather than as a horde of mercenary cut-throats, en¬
gaged in a work of wanton aggression, animated by the
meanest motives. But they have gone to their account,
and in the popular mind their lives are associated with
ideas of nobility and of chivalry, as unlike the living
realities of the past as the stony effigies upon their altar
tombs to the flesh and blood warriors whose names they
bear. That chivalric spirit which the poets have de¬
scribed, and which, among a noble minority, was a
reality in the days of old, seems to be dying out in this
commercial age ; fortunately war and bloodshed are now
so foreign to England that the circumstances do not
exist to call forth physical deeds of individual heroism ;
but the same spirit does not seem to exist to the same
extent, on the higher moral and intellectual plane on
which' men are now working. In a former age there
were some who gave up friends, home, and life for the
sake of principles which they believed to be true; but
in these modern times there are plenty of people who
not only will lend no helping hand to advance what
they believe to be good for the world, but will carpingly
criticise those who undertake the initial steps of the
•work, and, without a blush, admit that they are waiting
to see whether the undertaking will be a success before
they take any part. If, in the long run, the work suc¬
ceeds, they come in at the eleventh hour, singing, “We
did it!” If it fail in consequence of their standing
aloof, they cry, “ It did not answer, and we always said
so !” These remarks are intended for the consideration
of those intelligent critics, who look on while their
brethren try to promote any good work connected with
Spiritualism, and who show their faces when the hardest
part of the duty has been done. Undoubtedly there were
men in far more barbaric times who did not display this
craven spirit in supporting that which they knew to be
right, and who believed it to be an honour to die in a
good cause, rather than to wait till they saw the cause
triumphant without their aid. Who cannot but admire
the chivalric spirit which caused so many of the flower
of the Scottish nobility to sacrifice themselves on Elodden
194
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 23. 1874.
Field, rather [than to desert King James ? Hear Pro¬
fessor Aytoun’s words on the subject:—
******
“ God help ns all this day !—
But speak, how fought the citizens
Within the furious fray ?
For by the might of Mary
’Twere something still to tell,
That no Scottish foot went backwards
When the Royal Lion fell.”
” No one failed him. He is keeping
Royal state and semblance still;
Enight and noble lie around him
Cold on Flodden’s fatal hill.
Of the brave and gallant-hearted
Whom ye sent with tears away,
Not a single man departed
From our monarch, yesterday.
Had you seen them, 0 my masters,
When the night began to fall,
And the English spearmen gathered
Round a grim and ghastly wall,
As the wolves in winter circle
Round the leaguer on the heath,
So the greedy foe glared upward,
Panting still for blood and death.
But before them rose a rampart
Which the boldest dared not scale—
Every stone, a Scottish body—
Every step, a corpse in mail.
And behind it lay our monarch
Clenching still his shivered sword,
By his side Montrose and Athol,
At his feet a Southron lord.
All so thick they lay together
When the stars lit up the sky,
That I knew not who were stricken
Or who yet remained to die.
Few there were when Surrey halted
And his wearied host withdrew,
None but dying men around me
When the English trumpet blew.
Then I stooped and took the banner
As you see it, from his breast,
And I closed our hero’s eyelids
And I left him to his rest,.
In the mountains growled the thunder
As I leapt the woeful wall,
And the heavy clouds were settling
Over Flodden, like a pall.”
Had any of those persons who habitually “ wait to see
whether it will be a success” followed King James to
Flodden, they would have deserted directly they saw the
enemy, and sneaked into Edinburgh by a back gate
after dark, then crept up stairs to bed, unless the women
folks discovered them, and hanged them to benefit pos¬
terity by preventing the perpetuation of the race.
Here is a portrait of another man who thought it an
honour to sacrifice himself to what he believed to be a
good cause~
Open wide the vaults of Athol,
Where the bones of heroes rest!
Open wide their hallowed portals,
To receive another guest 1
Last of Scots and last of freemen,
Last of all that dauntless race,
Who would rather die, unsullied,
Than outlive their land’s disgrace.
Oh ! thou lion-hearted warrior,
Reck not of the after time—
Honour may be deemed dishonour,
Loyalty be thought a crime.
Sleep in peace with kindred ashes
Of tbe faithful and the true;
Hands that never failed their country,
Hearts that never baseness knew;.
May those who “ wait to see whether it will be a
success” before they support anything, be followed to
their graves by those honourable persons who share
their spirit, and may a “ Day and Martin’s Blacking ”
poet write an epitaph over their remains.
That henceforth, for ever, no person may be found
within the ranks of Spiritualism who does not think it
equally an honour to fight in the van of a good cause,
whether it succeed or fail, all true natures should most
sincerely pray.
OTHER WORLD ORDER.
BY WILLIAM WHITE, AUTHOB OF THE LIFE OF SWEDENBOEG.
To most people what Swedenborg testifies concerning
the future life is matter of contempt or indifference.
They will profess to be bound by the Scriptures, but on
examination we usually find them bound in a loose and
illogical fashion. I happened to overhear a discussion
between one who had persuaded himself that all men
would be ultimately saved, and another who held that
Biblical authority prescribed everlasting damnation,
citing in evidence the words, “ As the tree falls so it
lies.” “ But,” said his adversary, “ as a tree falls it
usually does not lie. It is carted away, or if it lies it
rots, and in course of time is converted, gently and
surely, into other organisms. But let us look at your
text; for I like to see every text in situ, as the geolo¬
gists say.” A concordance was referred to, and the
passage found in Ecclesiastes xi. 3 and 4—“If the
clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the
earth : and if the tree fall toward the south, or toward
the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there it
shall be. He that observeth the wind shall not sow;
and he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap.”
Whereon it was truly remarked, that whatever the
author of Ecclesiastes might mean, his words had no
reference to human destiny after death.
The citation of texts, as generally practised, is most
delusive. Many popular notions are sustained by
shreds of Scripture, which shreds- when restored to
their proper connection, bear a meaning often widely
diverse from that assumed for them in isolation. A
wag once asserted that the Bible sanctioned suicide.
“ Where ? where ?” was the instant demand. “ Matthew
xxvii. 5—Judas went and hanged himself.” “ But that
does not sanction suicide.” “ Yes it does—or at least
as much as texts you adduce to recommend what you
happen to like, or to condemn what you happen to dis¬
like.”
The fact is that it is far from easy to draw any con¬
sistent doctrine of the future life from the ante-
Christian Scriptures beyond this—that in righteousness
or accord with God is everlasting happ iness everywhere,
and in unrighteousness is everlasting misery every¬
where. Whether the Jews had any clear expectation
or conception of life after death is much disputed.
Bishop Warburton elaborated the amazing paradox that
inasmuch as Moses did not resort to Heaven for re¬
wards, nor to Hell for punishments that therefore his
legation was divine. Strange it certainly is that a
people who had lived in Egypt, where immortality and
judgment were such familiar ideas, should appear to
have been so little affected thereby. Some meet this
observation with the remark that because the future
life was so familiar, therefore Moses never referred to
it, just as we in our books and conversation may never
mention the sun, although we know that upon his heat
and light we depend for all we are and have. This,
Oct. 23, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
195
however, we may take for granted, that the fear of
endless agony after death did not distress the primitive
Israelites. The terrors that darkened the lives of John
Bunyan and "William Cowper were unknown to David
and Isaiah.
In the popular use of the Bible, its varied author¬
ship, and the centuries that divide book from book, are
habitually overlooked, and a passage from the Pentateuch,
or the Prophets, or the Gospels is treated as uniform
metal and entitled to unquestioned currency. It is
forgotten, to use the words of Burke,—
“ That the Scripture is no one summary of doctrines
regularly digested, in which a man could not mistake
his way : it is a most venerable, but most multifarious
collection of an infinite variety of cosmogony, theology,
history, prophecy, psalmody, morality, apologue, allegory,
legislature, ethics—carried through different books, by
different authors at different ages, for different ends and
purposes.”
And in consulting the Scriptures on the question of
human immortality, we must keep these facts in mind.
Consider for a moment that the last page of the Old
Testament is separated from the first page of the New
by at least four or five hundred years. We all feel
when we pass from Moses, or David or Ezekiel to the
Evangelists or Epistles that we breathe another air
and have entered another country. It maybe questioned
whether the subjects of Solomon were ignorant or
indifferent as to life after death, but there is no question
that the community in which Jesus Christ appeared
were neither ignorant nor indifferent. What was the
faith of that generation may be measured by the dissent
of the Sadducees, who in contravention to prevalent
opinion maintained that there was neither Heaven nor
Hell, angel or spirit, that the soul was mortal, and that
there was no resurrection of the body from the dead.
And, by the way, it is to be noted, that we do
not read that our Lord ever assailed these ** infidels,”
whom many of His nominal followers would consign to
perdition with unhesitating confidence.
Here I come to a point which I would with some
emphasis enforce, which is this, that to our Saviour we
owe little original information concerning the future
life. Whilst on the one hand, He did not attack the
Sadducees, on the other He was content to accept the
popular eschatology with corrections as opportunity
offered. Eor instance, He met the enquiry as to whose
wife a woman should be in the resurrection, who had
been married seven times, with the answer, that in the
other world they “neither marry, nor are given in
marriage, but are as the angels which are in heaven; ”
at the same time intimating that in their notion
of a future resurrection they did “greatly err,” for
were not Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob alive in the
spiritual kingdom ? Our Saviour’s work was less the
communication of natural or supernatural intelligence
than the inspiration of new motives for conduct of
a profounder desire for righteousness, of a more thorough
establishment of the kingdom of heaven in the heart.
Hence to a contentious Sadducee the words might
have been addressed, “Wrangle not concerning life after
death. Comply with the Divine commandments, and
leave the future to answer for itself out of a well-spent
present.” The passion of Jesus Christ, for Himself and
for others, was obedience, was conformity or unity with
God. “ My meat,” He said, “ is to do the will of Him
that sent me, and to finish His work.” He had
no deeper secret than this, “ Know God’s will and do
it,” and with this enthusiasm for righteousness his true
followers have their unique distinction.
But what is righteousness? As I have said, it is confor¬
mity to God, or, in profounder phrase, it is God manifest
in man—God whom Christ revealed as Love, as the
Father, averring, “ By this shall all men know that ye
are my disciples if ye love one another;” a declaration
qualified by His other, “ If ye love them which
love you, what thank have ye ? for sinners also love
those that love them. But love ye your enemies, and
do good, and lend, hoping for nothing again ; and your
reward shall be great, and ye shall be the children of
the Highest, for He is kind to the unthankful and the
evil,” thus ever placing the reason for conduct in
the character of God. “ Be ye perfect even as your
Father in Heaven is perfect.”
The excuse for these remarks consists in the wish to
define our Lord’s main purpose that we may with the
more freedom discuss matters that are subsidiary thereto.
We have to remember that Jesus Christ wrote no book
—that we have no word of His recorded by Him¬
self. We have His biography in four versions, and
whilst they vary, and necessarily so, in innumerable
details, the broad lines of His life and doctrine stand
forth in clear relief. It is when we attend to minutim
that inconsistencies and obscurities appear, and when
we are compelled to conclude that the reporter has
marred his work either by his inefficiency or his
prepossessions, or that the record has been tampered
with or has suffered from the common accidents of
transcription. Such misapprehensions, errata and
lacunae do not affect people of culture and liberal
temper; they take them as matter-of-course; and
people of simple common-sense have an instinct for
passing over such difficulties as though they were
not; but there is no doubt that some of the imperfect,
accidental, or questionable sayings ascribed to Christ,
as for example that of blasphemy against the Holy
Ghost, have begotten much anxiety and misery in
tender and timorous souls.
The Age of Reason is, I suppose, rarely read in
these days, scepticism having taken milder forms; but
Paine was a man of vigorous intellect, and though
often superficially and grossly wrong, any one who is
able to disregard form for substance may see that
he meant right. “ Thou dost not know it, but thou art
a Christian nevertheless,” said a strong-minded
Quakeress to him one day;- “for thy strife is for
the poor and the oppressed, and whoever so strives
is Christ’s friend, admit it or not.” Years ago in
reading the Age of Reason I remember being much
impressed with a contrast drawn by Paine between
two passages in the New Testament. In Mark xvi.
15 and 16, our Lord is represented as taking leave
of His disciples with the injunction, “ Go ye into the
world, and preach the Gospel to every creature. He
that believeth and is baptised shall be saved; but he
that believeth not shall be damned.”
Whereon remarks Paine, “ This is making salvation,
or, in other words, the happiness of man after this life
to depend entirely on believing, or on what Christians
call faith. But the 25th chapter of the Gospel accord¬
ing to Matthew makes Jesus Christ to preach a direct
contrary doctrine to the Gospel according to Mark; for
it makes salvation, or the future happiness of man, to
depend entirely on good works; and those good works
are not works done to God, for He needs them not, but
good works done to man.”
196
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 23, 1874.
The passage referred to in Matthew is the account
there given of the day of judgment, where the world
is represented as divided into two parts, the righteous
and the unrighteous, metaphorically called the sheep
and the goats. To the one part called the righteous,
or the sheep, the King says—
“ Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the king¬
dom prepared for you from the foundation of the
world; for I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat:
I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink : I was a stranger,
and ye took me in : naked, and ye clothed me : I was
sick, and ye visited me : I was in prison, and ye came
unto me.
“ Then shall the righteous answer Him, saying,
Lord, when saw we Thee an hungered, and fed Thee?
or thirsty, and gave Thee drink? When saw we Thee
a stranger, and took Thee in ? or naked, and clothed
Thee ? Or when saw we Thee sick, or in prison, and
came unto Thee ?
et And the King shall answer and say unto them,
Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it
unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done
it unto me.”
Paine’s comments are in his slashing style. “ Here/’
he writes, “ is nothing about believing in Christ—no¬
thing about that phantom of the imagination called
faith. The works here spoken of are works of humanity
and benevolence, or, in other words, an endeavour to
make God’s creation happy. Here is nothing aboutpreach-
ingand making long prayers, as if God must be dictated
to by man; nor about building churches and meeting¬
houses, nor hiring priests to preach and pray in them.
Here is nothing about predestination, that lust which
some men have of damning one another. Here is nothing
about baptism, whether by sprinkling or plunging ;
nor about any of those ceremonies for which the
Christian Church has been fighting, persecuting and
burning each other ever since the Christian Church
began.
“ If it be asked, why do not priests preach the
doctrine contained in this chapter ? the answer is easy.
They are not fond of practising it themselves. It does
not answer for their trade. They had rather get than
give. Charity with them begins and ends at home.
“Had it been said, Come, ye blessed: ye have been
liberal in paying the preachers of the Word, ye have
contributed largely towards building churches and meet¬
ing-houses, there is not a hired priest in Christendom
but would have thundered it continually in the ears of
his congregation. But as it is altogether on good works
done to men, the priests pass it over in silence, and
they will abuse me for bringing it into notice.”
I am not concerned to maintain these words of
Paine, nor to attack them : it was the custom of the
free lances of his time to deal with the clergy as a tribe
apart, instead of a portion of the people with a common
possession in wisdom and perversity. But Paine’s in¬
stinct was not at fault in detecting and exposing the
incongruity between Matthew and Mark. , It is easy, I
am aware, to put such a. sense upon the declaration,
“ He that believeth and is baptised shall be saved; but
he that believeth not shall be damned,” as will take the
offence out of it. If it is asked what is intended by
believing and being baptised in a deep spiritual signifi¬
cation, an answer may be given that will cover all the
unconscious virtues of the sheep in Matthew; but
plain folk like plain words, and are apt to resent re¬
condite interpretations as a sort of dangerous, if not
despicable, Jesuitry. The true explanation of the in¬
congruity is to be found, I apprehend, in the fact that
the passage from Mark is not authentic—is, in short, a
forgery. By Eusebius and Jerome it is expressly stated
that in nearly all the trustworthy copies of their time
the Gospel of Mark ended with what is now the 8th
verse of the 16th chapter; and in confirmation of their
testimony we know that in the two oldest manuscripts in
existence, the Sinaitic and the Vatican, verses 9 to 20
are absent.
Nor is this digression irrelevant, for we have to note,
and note carefully, that the tremendous doctrine of
everlasting punishments is based almost wholly on
certain sayings of our Lord Jesus Christ, and when
invited, nay driven, to assent to its truth we are bound
to scrutinise very carefully the media whereby these
sayings have been conveyed to us. And the orthodox
and learned Tischendorf informs us, “ I have no doubt
that very shortly after the books of the New Testament
were written, and before they were protected by the
authority of the Church, many arbitrary alterations and
additions were made in them.” We have therefore
perfect justification, if need be, to meet a dogmatist
with the demand for evidence that our Lord really said
what he avers He said, and to prove its congruity with
sayings that we are ready to admit as authentic.
Of this I am confident, that nothing so paralyses the
proper influence of the Scriptures as the abject spirit in
which it is supposed they should be read. As I heard
a lady once say, “ I never enjoyed the Bible until I
found courage to read it like any other book, and then
I found out for myself that it was the best of books.” It
is liberty that is wanted—liberty to question and criticise.
Ordinarily ahnatter is considered settled if apt citations
from Holy Writ can be adduced, and a man is reckoned
faithful, and regards himself as an Abdiel, if he can
proclaim “ Thus and thus, saith the Word of God, thus
I believe, and I am not to be moved,” when, in truth,
such a position is the very acme of unreasonableness.
And perhaps the chief mischief is that the world in
general takes such conduct as justified by the Bible, and
passes an inward and unconscious condemnation on the
Bible for its assumption, when, in fact, the Bible no
more, claims infallibility for itself than for the Pope, or
the Archbishop of Canterbury, or Brigham Young. How
thick a hedge of prejudice has been thus set round the
Scriptures is illustrated by an anecdote of a French
journalist, a life-long Voltairean. “Let me tell you/’
he exclaimed, with much fervour, to a friend, “ I have
been looking into the New Testament for the first time,
and I can assure you it is not a bad book! ” And,
having referred to the Age of Reason, let me say that
the great mass of its objections and sarcasms would have
been answered or blunted with the simple remark,
“ Admitted; and what then ?” Paine had his power
for mischief in the position of his antagonists, that every
assertion in the Bible was exact matter of fact or im¬
peccable wisdom. If men of science, of letters, and
common-sense could only be persuaded to read the
Scriptures with the same freedom with which they read
Homer and Plato, what might they not learn, and by
how much might they be profited !
' Mas. Tappan’s Lectures.—We are informed that ar¬
rangements are being made, as originally contemplated, to
have free seats at Mrs. Tappan’s Sunday meetings at the
Cavendish Booms, but that a small charge will be made next
Sunday. The heavy expenses caused the managers to an¬
nounce a charge.
Oct. 23, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
197
SPIRIT TEACHINGS *
NO. XX.
A fter an interval of tivo days I resumed my objections.
During that time I had carefully read over and over again
all that has been printed here, and much that is too personal
for publication. I had estimated the experience of a year,
during which I could discover no departure from strict
truth. And I came clearly to the conclusion that the
Power which, was in action was—(1) External to myself;
(2) Truthful and consistent in its statements ; (3) Pure
and elevated in the religious teaching which it conveyed.
This seemed clear to me: and I turned to consider the
question of identity, and the claims put forward. As to
other matters, I felt that they might wait. The points
which had settled themselves in my mind raised a strong
presumption that the truthful intelligence of the past was
truthful still. But then came the doubt as to how far all
might be the work of “ Satan transformed into an angel
of light,” labouring for the subversion of the faith. My
exact objection was put thus:—
“ Does not your teaching tend to what men call Deism,
Monotheism, or (wrongly, I know) even to Atheism? Does
it not degrade God to the level of a Force, and tend to breed
in man a doubt as to the absolute truth of anything? God,
one begins to think, is only a name fen' the influence which
permeates the universe, pictured differently by different
peoples in different ages. The revelation of Him comes ab
intrk, imagined in the mind, not revealed to it. Chris¬
tianity is one of many forms of faith, all more or less mis¬
taken. Man gropes on more or less blindly, evolving for
himself, from time to time, ideas more or less erroneous.
Since God exists only in the conceptions, each man has his
God peculiar to himself. Absolute truth out of mathe¬
matics does not exist. And so man, at his best, becomes
a solitary unit, alone with his own spirit, replying to its
questionings, evolving views which satisfy for a moment,
only to be succeeded by others, which in their turn give way
to newer ideas; unless, indeed, intellect becomes fossilised,
and the old views are permanent because they have ceased to
live.
“ The colourless idea is to supplant a Gospel which bears
the Divine imprimatur: whose precepts are precise, whose
morality is as elevated as most men can grasp, and which
is enforced by a system of definite reward and punishment
such as experience has always found necessary in dealing
with men. This Gospel, so backed, has not been, as you
say, successful in raising men to a very high pitch of moral
perfection. How, then, am I to expect that a philosophy
such as yours, which has a shadow of good, indeed, but a
shadow only, dim, vague, and impalpable, which is destruc¬
tive of the past, without the power to construct for the future ;
how can I believe that this can hold in hand rebellious
minds which have chafed under a religion so precise in its
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remaikable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Spfeer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-read, St. John's-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who' does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
theiridentity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from bis own
thoughts; consequently the “spirit teachings” printed above obtained
through his mediumsbip, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It n proper to statd that these communications are selected in
chiouological Older from a mass whioh ba« been g'vt-n continuously for the
past six months. Msnv of the originals are of such a personal natuie that
they are necessarily omi'ted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spin's are many; each gives his name and detai'sof his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in everj^particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—ED.
moral dicta, so forcible in its appeals to human interests,
so commended by its Divine origin and by the halo shed
around it from the saintliest life ever held up for human
imitation ? It seems to me most unlikely.
111 do not now repeat what I have said about the hazy
source from which this teaching comes: nor do I insist upon
the dangers which I foresee from its general adoption. That
danger is too remote to need enlarging on. At the same
time it is an important factor in the argument, that your
teaching would, as it seems to me, relax many of the whole¬
some bonds which have been valuable morally, socially, and
religiously to mankind. And were that which we know as
Spiritualism to flood the community, I sadly fear that it
would leave men enthusiasts and fanatics; and that the
woi'ld, so far from having gained ground, would have re¬
lapsed into the blindest superstition, and the shallowest cre¬
dulity. I may be utterly wrong ; but so it strikes me. I
cannot see that your teaching is any substitute for what men
have believed. Even if it be what it pretends to. be, surely
man is no more fit to be governed according to such notions
than he is to live on angels’food. Even in its highest form
it is of doubtful practical utility, while, in many of its
more vulgar shapes, it seems simply pernicious and de¬
moralising.”
In the name of the Supreme, we greet you. It is
not in our power to help you now. What we say
seems to you other than it is. The upheaval which
has so disturbed your mind, has left it in a condition
little fit to weigh niceties. For that you must bide
your time as patiently as may he, meantime the training
is valuable to you. You will know the why as you
knew it not before; and impulse and enthusiasm will
yield to experimental knowledge and calm conviction.
The venerable belief which has been assented to rather
than accepted, will pale before the knowledge of truth
which is born of investigation and logical analysis.
What we have said merits the deepest study. We
would have you take every opportunity of reading over
consecutively what has been written; and of thinking
deeply on the whole tenor of our intercourse with you.
We claim to be judged by our whole communion with
you, by words and deeds alike; by the moral effect of
our teaching, no less than by its relation to previous
creeds ; by the spiritual atmosphere which we bring
with us, no less than by the imperfect utterances in
which logical subtlety may readily find a flaw.
For the present it is enough that we solemnly
reiterate our claim to be the bearers of a Divine
message. The words we speak are the words of God.
You know it; and no additional argument can add any
weight to our claim on this head. You are no more
the sport of evil, than you are deluded by phantasies of
a diseased brain. Evil does not tell of God, as we
tell. Nor can any brain tell you what we have told,
and give you evidence such as we have given. When
you are more calm you will see this. Were you
in other state now, we should have somewhat to say
concerning the sin of curiously seeking out indication of
evil which may be fostered on that which is holy and
divine, even as when the holy Jesus walked your
earth ’mid its corruptions and its curses, the devils
whom He ejected turned on Him through the mouths
of the orthodox religionists, and charged Him with
association with Beelzebub. We do not care to answer
such objections. They bear on their face their own
sufficient refutation. When you have had time to
think calmly, we will make such answer to your
objections as may be requisite. For the present it
198
THE SPIRITUALIST.
is better that you givNe yourself to meditation and
prayer. Pray, friend, with zeal and earnestness, that
you may be guided into all truth.
That prayer at least you cannot refuse to put up,
even though it be dictated by the very Tempter. Pray,
in company with us, for enlightenment and patience;
for power to see, and for grace to follow the truth.
Pray that you may be released from the fetters of
dogmatism which would bind your aspiring soul; and
that being released you may be guided in your upward
progress, lest you soar and fall. Pray that the
influence of others may be separated from your own
soul’s wants; that you may have grace to choose the
right, and to leave others to select what they find
suitable for them. Pray that you may realise clearly
the responsibility of choice or rejection, and that you
may be saved, on the one hand, from obstinate
prejudice, and on the other, from hasty acceptance.
And, above all, pray for honesty, sincerity, and
humility, that you may not mar God’s work by pride,
by obstinacy, or by unworthiness.
And our prayers shall join with yours to draw down
an answering message of love and consolation from
those who watch on high, in anxious expectation of the
spread of Divine Truth.
+ I. S. D.
Mrs. B. S. Navleb, late of Milford, Pembrokeshire, a
devoted Spiritualist, much respected by all who knew her, passed
from earth-life ten weeks ago, at Stawell, Australia.
Sunday Lectures at Holborn.—Last Sunday evening
there was a gathering of Spiritualists at Doughty Hall, Bed¬
ford-row, at which between ninety and ninety-five persons
were present. Mr. Burns presided, and delivered an interest¬
ing discourse, taking for his text the words, “ And I saw a
new heaven and a new earth coming down from God, for the
old heaven and the old earth had passed away, and in the
city of this new land there was no sun, moon, nor temple,
but God was the light.” At the close he asked the listeners
to form an association to carry on the meetings. Mr. Alsop
engaged in prayer.
Spiritual Manifestations in Birmingham.—A cor¬
respondent sends an account of a seance held at the Booms of
the Birmingham Spiritual Institution, Suffolk-street, Bir¬
mingham, on the 3rd of this month. , Twenty-three gentle¬
men sat in two concentric rings, holding each other’s hands
and the hands of the medium all through the seance, which
was a dark one. Under these conditions the spirits brought
grapes covered with bloom, and flowers fresh with dew, and
placed them on the table. Solid objects were carried about,
and some of them knocked against the ceiling, and several of
the sitters were grasped by spirit hands. The lady is a
medium who kindly sits without making any charge, and she
and her husband are active supporters of Spiritualism in
Birmingham, in which town public seances are held on Wed¬
nesday and Thursday evenings, at eight o’clock.
Sunday Meetings at Goswell Hall.—Last Sunday
evening at the Goswell Hall, Goswell-street, Mrs. Bullock
delivered a trance discourse on “ The Essence of the Spirit of
God.” a subject which had been selected by Mr. Haxby, who
presided on tbe occasion. Mr. Haxby, in his opening remarks
said,—‘‘The air is filled with blessings; the essence of the
spirit of God is moving in every form of beauty and order.
Tbe soul of man nan find no rest but in Him who giveth rest
and spiritual food to the weary. Arise, therefore, for this
world is not your resting-place, and the saints of God
will love you, the angels will guard you. Borne on the wings
of time to everlasting wisdom and truth, we shall learn for
ever and ever in the midst of the wise and the true, the
holiest mysteries of the one true God of infinite love. Let us
then praise Him for His mercy and His love, hear Him
for his power, trust Him fot his wisdom, believe Him for His
faithfulness, adore Him for His majesty and His holiness, and
thank Him for His sustaining hand—His goodness and
His loving-kindnfss to the children of men.” Mrs. Bullock
then delivered a trance address of upwards of an hour’s dura¬
tion, and the service closed with a hymn at a late hour.
Oct. 23, 1874.
MBS. JENCKEN’S DEPARTURE FOR AMERICA.
A letter from Mr. H. D. Jencken, dated October
17th, informs us that Mrs. Jencken (Kate Fox)—the
medium through whom the manifestations of modem
Spiritualism first began in America—left England a
few days ago in the S.S. Helvetia for New York. He
parted from Mrs. • Jencken off Dover, at the risk of a
drenching, in the pilot boat. Before he left the ship
some kindly messages were spelt out to him, by raps
upon the deck house, erected for the protection of the
helmsmen at the wheel, somewhat to the annoyance of
the men, as they could not make out what it meant.
Mrs. Jencken takes with her the medial child, through
whom the celebrated writing and other messages have
been obtained.
During Mr. Jencken’s recent visit to Geneva, Mrs.
Jehcken was the guest of Lady Rayleigh, and some
interesting manifestations took place during her stay.
SPIRITUALISM AT THE CHELSEA LITERARY
INSTITUTION.
Last Friday night the Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., author
of the ' Unorthodox London letters in the Daily Telegraph,
lectured on “ Modern Spiritualism, its Pros and Cons, a
Narrative of Experience,” before the Chelsea Literary and
Scientific Institution, at the Vestry Hall, King’s-road, Chelsea,
London. The Bev. J. Bobbins, D.D., Vicar of St. Peter’s,
Kensington-park, presided. There was a large and intelligent
body of listeners, among whom were Mrs. Makdougall Gregory,
Mrs. De Morgan, Mr. W. De Morgan, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr.
S. C. Hall, Mrs. Wood, Miss Wood, Mr. Hocker, Mr. B.
Pomeroy Tredwen, and Mr. Venman.
DR. MAURICE DAVIES’ EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM.
The President said that he was totally unprejudiced on the
subject, that he did not attend in his clerical capacity, but
merely as chairman for the purpose of keeping order.
Dr. Davies said that it required considerable pluck to speak
on so tabooed a subject, although to taboo a subject without
enquiry was more than half to endorse its truth; whether
truth or Spiritualism gained by such tabooing he considered
to be open to very serious question. Years ago he resolved
that neither Bogy nor Mrs. Grundy should frighten him from
investigating it. He did not in the least expect that they
would believe what he would tell them that evening, but he
did not blame them, because if others had told him the same
things years ago, he could not have believed them himself; before
he finished he expected that some present would believe him
to be a harmless lunatic, whilst others would conclude that
the whole subject was unorthodox and wrong. Spiritualism
was certainly either the greatest truth or the biggest swindle ever
palmed off on humanity ; it might be regarded from a scien¬
tific, a theological, or a social point of view, and from the
latter point he intended to deal with it that night. In 1857 he
was in Paris while Mr. Home was at the Tuileries ; he heard
what was taking place at the seances, and in his wisdom knew
that the manifestations must be false ; his own brother, how¬
ever, tried to reason him out of this opinion, by telling him
what he had seen at the seances with Mr. Home, at the house of
Mr. Bymers, at Ealing; his brother was not gullible and any¬
thing but spiritual, so this testimony rather startled him. The
two of them and his wife then sat down to try to get manifes¬
tations; the table tilted, and said that his wife was a medium;
it answered questions correctly, which he wrote down, when
the sitters at the table did not see or know what he had
written. One message was, “ We the spirits of the departed
are thus permitted to appear before men.” He then wrote
‘‘What is the use of Spiritualism?” and the reply was, “It
may make men believe in God.” The effect of this first seance
was that he collapsed and struck his flag at once as to the im¬
portance of the matter; he never was so thoroughly knocked
oyer as he was on that occasion. Afterwards he often obtained
communications through the mediumship of his wife, who had
the greatest repugnahce to the spiritual theory, and ascribed
the facts to unconscious cerebration or unconscious muscular
Oct. 23, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
199
action. They sat occasionally more for amusement than any¬
thing else, but he saw that Spiritualism was doing some good;
it staggered men who believed in nothing, and the great
doubts which prevail among young men as to the reality of a
spirit world he had seen shaken to their very foundation by
the phenomena. In the autumn of 1865 his attention was
more seriously drawn to the subject by the death of his
little boy; a message was given in writing through bis
mother’s hand purporting to come from him, and, unseen
by Mrs. Davies, he (Dr. Davies) wrote persistently “ Write
your name.” Suddenly a message was broken off in the
middle, and the name was written through his wife’s hand.
At that moment he was a Spiritualist, but afterwards a
reaction set in, for he had never since received but a single
communication purporting to come from that child. About
this time he placed himself in the hands of Mr. Benjamin
Coleman and Mr. S. C. Hall. At the house of the latter he
saw chairs and tables move about in the presence of Mr.
Home, at all parts of the room, and without being touched by
anybody; he also saw Mr. Home floating in the air in Mr.
Hall’s drawing room for five minutes, and he felt him all over
while he was floating ; he was thus sure that no wires, strings,
or supports of any kind, were attached to his body. Having thus
committed himself as a lunatic with the disbelievers in Spirit¬
ualism among his listeners, he would proceed to set himself wrong
also with the other part of the audience : although he had seen
all this, he for the next few years doubted the spiritual origin
of the phenomena, because he could get no satisfactory
evidence of spirit identity ; still, be felt at the present time
that the spiritual theory deserved the most serious attention,
sin,ce it was the only one which covered the whole of the facts.
In 1866 he went to one of Mrs. Mary Marshall’s professional
seances ; she had never seen him before, he was an utter
stranger to her, and she did not know his name; there he saw
a table floating in the air, and his child’s name was spelt out
by raps. He then somewhat stretched his conscience by
joining the Dialectical Society, composed of men who believed
in nothing save the conclusions of logical arguments; they
formed committees for the investigation of Spiritualism, and
one impracticable old gentleman whom nobody else would have,
he took on his own committee, and regretted it ever afterwards,
for he at the first seance brought a charge against his (Dr.
Davies’) wife of playing tricks, and against himself as acting
the part of showman. (Laughter.) This resulted in the
breaking up of the committee; in short, introducing Spirit¬
ualism to such people was like shaking a red rag before a bull.
He then spoke of the report of the Dialectical Committee, and
of the testimony of Messrs. Wallace, Crookes, and Yarley. He
told how he went to Miss Cook’s seances, and saw materialised
faces in the light, he had also seen the same through the
mediumship of Miss Showers ; because of the respectability of
the mediums he dared not suspect trickery, neither had he
discovered evidence of any, bat he had not seen the medium
and the materialised spint at the same time, although other
witnesses testified that they had done so, neither had he ever
seen the materialised face of any departed friend of his own.
Spiritualists were beginning to organise, and he was a member
of the Council of the National Association. The Association
did not declare itself for or against any theological principles ;
for his own part he cared little for form or creed, and judged
opinions chiefly by their fruits. (Loud applause.) He was
content to stand by the saying, “ By their fruits ye shall know
them.” The very noblest act ever done to him in his life, was
by a Spiritualist, who acted on the principle, “ Let not thy
right hand see what thy left hand doeth.” (Applause.) He
then read extracts from the National Association prospectus,
including the late theological clause. Spiritualists, he said,
were the reverse of exclusive, they had no propaganda, and a
man who accepted their facts, did not necessarily accept any
theological or other conclusions, Those who intended to
investigate the subject, should keep their eyes open and their
heads cool. (Applause.)
'Mr. Child—Is it possible for a spirit face to be produced
without the medium being in the room or cupboard where
it is seen ?*
Dr. Davies—I have not seen anything of the kind.
Mr. Hickey—How were your earlier messages given? By
involuntary writing on the part of your wife ?
Dr. Davies—At first by tiltings of the table, afterwards by
writing.
* A few weeks ago an article by Mr. Robert Dale Owen was published in
The Spiritualist, narrating how he had frequently seen the manifestation
obtained under these conditions. Dr. Slade, an American medium, regu¬
larly obtains materialised faces while sitting among the spectators.—En.
SPIRITUALISM AND MINISTERS OP RELIGION.
Mr. E. Parkinson Ashton said that it would have been in¬
structive to the audience if Dr. Davies, as a clergyman of the
Church of England, had spoken a little upon the theological
aspects of Spiritualism, especially as Spiritualism met with so
much opposition from that section of the theological world
called Christian, and he believed that this opposition was
mainly caused by ministers of religion withholding their
opinion on the subject. Probably many of them were afraid
to speak about Spiritualism, lest it should offend their con¬
gregations, and cause them to be tabooed as heretics. He
thought that it was greatly to the credit of Dr. Davies that he
was not afraid to deal with the subject (Applause), even in his
own pulpit. If Dr. Davies had told them whether he believed
the general bearings of Spiritualism to be for or against the
teachings of the Scriptures, it would have been of much
interest.
Dr. Davies stated that no argument could be brought
against the phenomena of Spiritualism which did not equally
tend to overthrow the miracles recorded in the Bible, in¬
cluding those of the New Testament. It was hard to tell men
that they must believe in the Bible miracles, but must not look
at or test those occurring under their own eyes. The messages
given to him through the mediumship of his wife, told him
that spirits returned to earth “ to make men believe in God.”
Dr. Nethercliffe, sen., said that Dr. Davies had done his
duty thoroughly to everybody, in the way in which he had
laid Spiritualism before that Institution.
MR. S. C. HALL ON SPIRITUALISM AND CHRISTIANITY.
Dr. Netherclifle, jun., said that he had been an impartial
enquirer into Spiritualism, and he wished to ask Dr. Davies
whether avowed Spiritualists had, generally speaking, a modi¬
fied belief in the Bible ? His own experience led him to think
that it did modify their former belief in Holy Writ.
Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.—No, no, my friends ! Allow me to
make a few remarks in moving a vote of thanks to Dr. Davies
for his lecture. I avow myself a Spiritualist without the
smallest hesitation, and claim from you some credit for my
testimony if you think that I am not easy of delusion, that
I have some intelligence, much experience, and the use of all
my senses. I have concluded that Spiritualism is a certain
truth. I cannot make a long address, and my experience, as
compared with that of Dr. Davies, is as Mont Blanc to Bich-
mond Hill—his experience is mere child’s play. I am very
thankful to see a clergyman of the Established Church in the
chair to-night, and a clergyman of the Established Church
delivering a lecture on Spiritualism ; not long ago they would
no more have dared to do so than they would have dared to
walk naked through the streets. (Laughter.) But the evidence
has been accumulating. Men infinitely their superiors in
scientific attainments have been satisfied, and there is amply
sufficient to satisfy all men who will make careful enquiry after
truth. Every unpopular truth is opposed at first. I recollect
when it was argued that it was folly to try to light the streets
with gas, and Sir Walter Scott spoke to that effect at a public
meeting. It is not so very many years since a speaker at a
public meeting in Liverpool, made remarks setting forth the
absurdity of supposing that a steamship could ever cross the
Atlantic. Spiritualism is true, and if it is of God it must go
on ; if it is a falsity from beginning to end, it must fall to the
ground. (Applause.) I do not think that Dr. Davies has to¬
night taken the line of argument which I should have taken,
and whichheought, asaclergyman,tohavetaken. If he believes
in the miracles of old, he ought to have told you so, and that
therefore he believes in the miracles of to-day. He has read
tne passage from the society Of Spiritualists which expresses
sympathy with the teachings of Jesus Christ; I say that as a
clergyman he has no right to belong to a society which patron¬
ises and merely tolerates Christianity. Now, my friends, let me
tell you what Spiritualism has done for me. A few years ago,
before I knew Spiritualism, I was a Christian in name,
but in name only, because it was a respectable and proper
thing to be so. I did not believe in the miracles; I
no more believed in them than I did in the miracles
of Spiritualism ; I now believe in the one because I have seen
the other. Do not imagine that Spiritualism is antagonistic
to the Bible ; it is leading us into Christianity by another
road than that which we have been accustomed to follow, and
who shall blame the Creator because He leads a man by one
path rather than by another ? I never saw a more respectable
assembly, or one I should so much desire to address, as the
one which I see before me to-night; you have been kind and
just to all the speakers. My friends, I now never go to my
200
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 23, 1874.
bed at night ■without reading a chapter from the New Testa¬
ment, or close my eyes in sleep without prayer; once I read
the Bible because it was the right thing, and a respectable
thing, for me to do as the head of a family, but the entire
faith which I now feel in every passage of it came to me entirely
through Spiritualism. Spiritualism is spreading over the
whole earth in a marvellous manner; it has already more
than twenty millions of followers, and I venture to say that
out of the thirty millions in Great Britain, one million are
Spiritualists; it is increasing daily. It is the business of
these clergymen to give attention to it; they cannot stop it, but
they may guide it; they should not permit wild visionaries and
evil-minded men to take them away from it. I have never met
with a single individual who has become less a Christian through
Spiritualism; there are, it is true, men who are not Christians
amongst Spiritualists, but they never were Christians and never
would have been ; they never believed in anything spiritual
till this subject drew their attention. Spiritualism is a great,
grand truth, sent by God to do much, but especially to stop
the spread of materialism, and to prove to those who will not
believe in any hereafter, that there is another life. Aye! proofs
by thousands I could give you that our friends “ gone before ”
are about us still. I know that you may tell me about a low
class of Spiritualists and of spirits ; there are evil spirits con¬
stantly communicating—low, debased, depraved spirits, just
as there are in life. I could spend evenings with the lowest
demireps in the lowest part of the metropolis, but God allows
me to choose good and high society. In Spiritualism it is
just the same; through low class mediums I may converse
with low class spirits; but through the higher, the holier, and
the more Christian mediums, holy spirits can communicate
with me. It is a delicious feeling to know that one you loved
on earth is near you, and can communicate under certain con¬
ditions. I am an old man, but many of you who are younger
will live to see Spiritualism the handmaid of Christianity, to
see it a strong power from God, a comforter in every trouble,
a consoler in misfortune, the greatest blessing next to belief
in Christ which God has given to man. The time has now
expired; and I move this vote of thanks in the hope that a
time may come when in this room, or in some other, Dr.
Davies will lead us from Spiritualism to the Bible, and tell us
how practical Christianity is strengthened and confirmed by
Spiritualism. I think this to be a great and happy duty on
his part, for he has left me not quite certain whether he
believes in Spiritualism, and not quite certain whether he
believes in the Bible at all.
ME. ALGEENON JOT ON SPIEITTTAXISM AND CHEISTIANITT.
Mr. Algernon Joy said that he was an unqualified Spirit¬
ualist, and had been so for nine years; he examined the
matter for four years before he became convinced. He was
one of the secretaries to the British National Association of
Spiritualists, and the clause in the principles and purposes of
that Association to which Mr. S. C. Hall objected was put in
originally to please themore orthodox Christianson theCouncil,
and at the request of such of them as attended its meetings.
It was afterwards objected to by other orthodox Christians,
the result being that it was struck out by a majority which
bore the proportion of eight to one, when the votes of all the
members of the Association were taken on the point. As to
the influence of Spiritualism upon orthodoxy, it produced
different effects upon different individuals; it had turned
many unbelievers into Christians more or less orthodox; it
had also so destroyed the orthodoxy of many Christians
. (Applause) that they were no longer recognised by members of
the church they had left, as Christians at all, at least four
out of five of their former friends would so condemn them.
There were also Spiritualists among the Chinese, Hindoos,
and other non-Christian nations, but he had never heard of
Spiritualism converting any one of these to Christianity,
though it sometimes taught them to believe more than they
did before in their own religious books. Such, at least, was
his own experience.
THE EEY. J. BOBBINS ON SCIENTIFIC SPIEITTTALISM.
The Chairman said that it had been a great pleasure to him
to preside over such an intelligent and orderly meeting; once
before he had been to a Spiritualistic meeting among people
who were considered the upper class of society, but that
meeting presented a marked contrast to the present one. He
had to thank Mr. Hall for his remarks, but thought that he
had no right to try to place Dr. Davies on the horns of a
dilemma, or to raise the question whether he was a disbeliever
in the Bible. Mr. Hall appeared to think it to be an act of
great courage on the part of Dr. Davies and himself, as clergy¬
men, in being present as they were that evening ; he did not
feel that it required any particular courage, and ten-years ago
if a similar invitation had been made to him to preside over
ai similar meeting he should have accepted it at once. He
thought that Spiritualism had nothing to do with Christianity,
but that, like all science, it was simply extra-Christian; all
ministers ought to favour scientific research, and in doing so
thought they could hardly go wrong, when they found them¬
selves in such distinguished company as that of the late Pro¬
fessor De Morgan, and other men of science like him. He
was sorry that anything like a theological argument had been
introduced into the question; but, on the other hand, he was
glad to see the public taking so much interest in spiritual
matters. In the darkness of the Middle Ages men opposed
all the young sciences as anti-Christian, so chemistry de¬
generated into alchemy, and astronomy into astrology, whereby
the progress of genuine knowledge was nearly stopped ; but
when the prejudices were removed, the world was rewarded by
the long series of magnificent discoveries connected with
chemistry and astronomy. (Applause.) Although he was a
clergyman he did not intend to endorse or to refute anything
which had been said that evening of a theological nature ; he
was nut there in his clerical capacity, but came simply
as chairman, to keep order; it was true he had not left
off his white tie; but had he done so it might have been
supposed that he was ashamed of his order. He had no
right, as a chairman, to push forward his theological
opinions; in like manner Bishop Colenso, as a bishop,
had no right to write his book. It was not on record
that people believed in Christ because of tbe miracles he
wrought; indeed, Christianity was rather the kingdom of God
in the heart of man, and the chief use of miracles appeared to
be to break down materialism. He had never seen any of the
phenomena of Spiritualism, and should be very thankful if
anybody would show them to him ; he did not think that the
facts of Spiritualism were for, or against Christianity, but that
they were matters for scientific investigation. (Applause.)
WHAT CONSTITUTES BEEIABLE EVIDENCE F
Mr. Cuthbertson seconded the vote of thanks; Dr. Davies
had announced that he came there without decided opinions
and he had certainly kept strongly to the terms on which he
set out. "Whether Spiritualism would aid the religion of the
Lord Jesus Christ or not, he did not know, but he was glad
that it had been the means of Mr. Hall’s conversion, if the
Scriptures had proved insufficient, although the Scriptures
themselves said, “ If they believe not Moses and the prophets,
neither will they believe, though one rise from the dead.”
The Scriptures contained everything for the advantage of
mankind, and he did not see that Spiritualism had thrown
any new light on the pathway of salvation. What was the
advantage of seeing a person floating in the air ? What was
the use of rapping noises on tables ? So far as he had read
holy Scripture, he did not think that such things would tend
to improve spiritual life.
Dr. Crisp said that he believed Spiritualism to be an utter
delusion, and he desired to bring it to a tangible proof. When
tbe subject was first mooted in that hall, he had made an
offer which he desired to repeat—namely, if any medium
would come to that hall, and float in it publicly, he would
give £100 to any charity they might select to receive it. He
thanked Dr. Davies for his lecture, though he could not tell
whether he believed in its truth, but let it not be supposed
that a number of the sensible people from the parish of
Chelsea believed such things.
Mr. Parkinson Ashton thought that the remarks of the last
speaker reflected on the veracity of Dr. Davies and Mr. S. C.
Hall, but as the one by direct statement, and the other by
silent assent, stated that certain facts had been observed in
Mr. Hall’s drawing-room, he would assert that that meeting
gave full credit to the testimony of those honourable gentle¬
men. (Applause.) He thought that they should accept their
statement that they saw a man float round a room.
Another speaker rose momentarily and said, “If one rose
from the dead,” certain people “ would not believe,” and that
(pointing at Dr. Crisp), is one of them. (Hear, hear, and
uproar.)
Mr. Cox said that as Dr. Davies testified that he had been
watching Spiritualism for twenty years, and testified that he
had never detected any trickery, he thought him to be one of
the best friends that the Spiritualists ever had.
The vote of thanks was then given by acclamation.
Dr. Davies, in conclusion, said that the wisdom of his keep¬
ing theology out of the question, had been amply illustrated in
Oct. 23, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
201
the discussion •which had taken place. He had never seen
any anti-Christian effect of Spiritualism; the messages he
had received by it, said that they were given to him to confirm
his faith ; they were given also through his wife, “ because,”
said the intelligence, “ she was the only person you would
believe.” (Applause.)
The meeting then broke up.
A SPECULATIVE LECTURE ON SPIRITUAL
PHILOSOPHY.
SPIRITUALISM NOT A PHYSICAL SCIENCE — SPIRITUALISM AND
DARWINIANISM—THE LAWS OP THE SOUL — DREAMS—CLAIR¬
VOYANCE—TIME AND SPACE.
On Tuesday evening, last week, Mr. R. Harper lectured at
the Co-operative Institute, Castle-street, Oxford-street, London,
on ” The Scientific Discoveries of Spiritualism.” Mr. Wilson
presided, and there was a good attendance.
Mr. R. Harper said that Spiritualism had been so misrepre¬
sented in the newspapers, and its lower aspects had been so
much advanced by them, that of necessity his hearers, nearly
all of whom derived their information on the subject from
the public journals, were prejudiced against it; this was not
their faplt, but a matter of necessity, caused by the influences
operating upon them as organic beings. He had spent fifteen
years of his life in the close practical investigation of Spirit¬
ualism, and he was a medium himself. He would not adopt
the usual course of advancing a multitude of facts, for they
could find the facts in abundance in the spiritual periodicals,
but he would speak of results. He understood the word
“ science” to mean “ the setting forth of that which is,” and
there were things in nature which were not physical.
Spiritualism was not, as a whole, a physical science, although
some of its phenomena were recognised by the physical
senses; it was at the root of all the sciences, and not only
went with men while studying the sciences, but went further
than they did, for it dealt with the causes of all things, and
was an explication of the universe turned inside out, so was a
large subject. Men had demanded that it should be investi¬
gated by the methods of physical science, but it refused to be
so dealt with, but threw light upon problems which physical
science could not explain; for instance, Mr. Hooker, and
Professors Huxley and Tyndall, all of them at one time presi¬
dents of the British Association for the Advancement of
Science, had acknowledged that physical science could not
explain the phenomena of life ; it could not tell the wherefore
of the diflerence between a living and a dead man. Spiritualism
taught that in mortal life men were getting ready to be born
again, and were passing through another state of embryology;
their mental faculties were being developed and educated
because of their connection with physical substance. Spiritual¬
ism revealed that all force was of a spiritual nature at root, and
was the origin of form, for only in the combination of spirit
with matter was form possible, spirit being the governing
power, and matter the passive substance ; it showed that the
form of the human skull, or any other form, was the result of
spiritual forces striving to devolope themselves, therefore the
science of craniology was true, although at present imperfect
and unreliable. Darwin had nothing towards explaining the
origin of species, although he had set down a magnificent dis¬
play of thought on the subject. Parents of the same mental
and physical nature, surrounded age after age by the same
conditions, would infallibly produce children of a like
nature; something new and spiritual must be introduced
into the conditions before any fresh advance is made
in organic life. For instance, during specific periods in the
past history of the earth, the food of certain animals be¬
came scarce; they consequently began to feed upon the young
of other creatures, thus new spiritual principles entered their
organisations, and an offspring somewhat changed in form
and nature was the result. The soul of the creature eaten
was more or less absorbed by the creature eating it, and this
was a lesson for flesh-eaters; persons who ate the largest
quantities of flesh were undoubtedly the grossest kinds of
human beings, and the eating of animals by other animals had
an effect upon the next generation by acting upon the germ,
and herein was a large portion of the secret of the differentia¬
tion of organisations. Many of the most intellectual minds of
the age were utterly sceptical, and did not accept the theory
of the existence of spirit at all, whereas, in reality, physical
substance was merely the shadow, and the spirit within gave
it the qualities of length, breadth, and thickness. The soul
within man was governed by laws of which physical science
knew nothing, because it had not processes of investigation ap¬
plicable to the problem within its domain among the chief of
these laws were what he would call the “ wisdom laws” of the
human organisation; every organisation which was not growing
in perfect agreement with the unperverted laws of the system
of being was in a state of imperfection, and, to some extent,
of suffering; and, judged by this standard, much of the
wisdom of the age was downright folly. Obedience to the
true laws of life would remedy all moral diseases, and
secure that the vitality of one part of the organism
shall not be completely under the control of the vitality
of another part of the organism, but that each shall duly
balance the other; when this condition of things should be
realised, the nobler faculties of man would develope more
rapidly, and the skulls of the men of the future would be
correspondingly altered in form; this might be called ” the
philosophy of external conditions.” External conditions had
a powerful influence, and he believed in the saying of Robert
Owen that “ the character of a man is formed for him, and
not by him although this statement had frightened theo¬
logians, it was strictly true, for Spiritualism brought the
proof. When men unravelled the laws governing the growth
of organic forms, they could so modify the conditions pro¬
ducing and surrounding them, that they could as absolutely
regulate the growth of righteousness and virtue in a human
organism, as they could regulate the growth of potatoes. The
knowledge of these laws by mothers would more especially
tend to regenerate the human race, for the right mothers,
surrounded by the right conditions, could produce progeny of
any desired pattern. Spiritualism also proved that man
was now living a dual life, that he had two modes of
consciousness, one of which was exerted in this world,
and the other in another world; the facts proving this were
piled up mountains high in the philosophy of dreaming.
The emotions were strong during dreams.* Common dreams
were fragmentary and difficult to be understood, but the idea
that they depended upon heavy suppers was absurd; if the
supper theory were true, he had the right to ask in what part
of the jugged hare or the pork pie was the dream that he was
falling down a precipice ? He admitted that the dream was
modified by suppers, because heavy suppers could derange the
channel between the internal and the external consciousness;
this also was the reason why dreams were not always rational.
In old age, the external memory and consciousness began to
fail, but the internal memory and consciousness were per¬
fected ; in fact, the man was just ready to drop off the tree
like a ripe pear. Some dreams were rational. When the
channel of communication between the two modes of con¬
sciousness was in good order, men had solved mathematical
problems in their sleep which they had been unable to solve
in their waking state. All men were mediums and in connec¬
tion with the spirit world as regarded their internal conscious¬
ness. He was a writing medium, and frequently obtained
through his own hand voluminous information upon subjects
about which he knew nothing while in the physical world, and
all men were unconsciously constantly getting their ideas from
both worlds. Spirits could transfuse their consciousness into
other spirits, in fact, spirits were in men just as alcohol was
in whisky and formed part and parcel of the whisky, and
men had already made a large number of acquaintances in
the spirit world, although they were not aware of it in
external life; Spiritualism could supply the proofs. Under
certain conditions he was clairvoyant, and in the spirit saw
men he had never met before; later on, he sometimes met
them for the first time in physical life, and knew them again.
He had written out conversations with the spirits of men now
living in the body, and had afterwards ascertained, after
making searching enquiry, that they actually held(the opinions
which in their names had been written out through his hand.
Space and time did not exist for the spirit; they were condi¬
tions of matter, hence a communicating spirit might be, from
a physical point of view, thousands of miles away from the
medium or seer. To see a man spiritually was to feel the
sensation of sight, and while appearing to be a yard off, the
man might be on the other side of the Milky Way. The
highest truth of nature which Spiritualism had demonstrated
by inductive experiment, was the great doctrine of compound
consciousness ; this doctrine would take most of the life and
soul out of the religious opinions of the time, and that within
a few years; it would show the grandeur of human nature,
and that more or less divinity was thus rained upon all men
* Is this so ? Do not dreamers witness the most absurd things with the
most perfect composure and absence of surprise, as if they had been
accustomed to such anomalies from their youth upwards?—Ed.
202
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 23, 1874.
from the Centre of Being. It showed how there could be an
Almighty Being whose influence ran through all living things
in all worlds, and how man could gradually develops to such
an extent, that were the man of to-day to meet the man of
the future, he would look up to him with worship and adora¬
tion. (Applause.)
Mr. Chant said that about thirty years ago, he lived with
about a hundred people who would not acknowledge man¬
made time, yet by spirit influence they were always brought
together when wanted, although in tbeir occupations they
were scattered miles apart. He did not know the taste of
animal food himself, and was sure that the more men ate it
the more animal they would be; vegetarianism tended to
make a man healthy, moral, and self-composed. Under
the present condition of things, the eating, drinking, and
labour of human beings, was wrong, three parts of the
day.
Mr. Forbes said that society stood upon such a base, that
people must be either man-eaters, or men eaten, they must
be either bugs or candles. Mr. Harper wished to reverse
this state of things, so he had some respect for him. If
every man did his duty to his neighbour, England would not
now be full of drunkenness, vice, and poverty, but extreme
poverty could not possibly be abolished, while the present
land and currency laws were in existence. If he found that
people who advocated new religious ideas were not sound upon
the land question, he soon skedaddled, since they could not
have much good in their midst.*
Mr. Bosewarn said that he was not a Spiritualist, but a
materialist who thought that Spiritualism should be im¬
partially investigated, and not allowed to grow into a new
superstition. He agreed that when better conditions sur¬
rounded men, they would have a finer body and a finer brain.
Mr. Harper had doubtless read much during his life, and
forgotten what he had read ; how then did he know that the
information written through his hand did not consist of
forgotten knowledge of his own, brought forth again by
material and not by spiritual action ?
Mr. Milner said that there was a vast amount of reason
in much which Mr. Harper had said, and he thought it
natural to suppose that a central intelligence acted through
all living organisms.
The Chairman said that the lecture would give them more
to think about than anything they had heard in that room for
a long time, for it dealt with the whole question of terrestrial
existence, and he thought that Spiritualists had usually had
the best of the argument in discussions with materialists, yet
both Spiritualism and materialism could live in perfect
harmony. Materialism came to a dead block when it reached
the atom, and could not get beyond it, yet it was quite certain
that there was such a thing as immateriality. Men, broadly
speaking, were responsible for the circumstances surrounding
them, and the reason they did not govern the circumstances,
was that their early education prevented them from thinking
and acting for themselves. Mr. Harper had not tried to ex¬
plain how animal life began at first. He should have liked to
have heard a little on that point.
Mr, Harper, in the course of his reply, said that sometimes
he was awakened in the night, and made to remember some of
the events of his sleep life and the process of education he was
then going through in another state of consciousness.
Although he had read much, communications were written
through his hand on subjects of which he had never known
anything ; one paper thus written about organic life, was on
“ The Belationship of the Spiked-Back Forces ; ” a scientific
friend had read it, and said that he would give five years of his
life to be able to write an article like it, and he (Mr. Harper)
was sure he had never read anything on any such subject.
Clairvoyants Usually described the universe as one piece, and
not broken up into suns and worlds as it appeared to the
physical eye to the eye of the spirit men were simply cells of
force, connected 'with others around them.
The meeting then broke up.
An account of the recent materialisation seance at Dar¬
lington was published in The Darlington and Stockton Times.
•This is rather hard up-^n people who are iguorant of political economy.
It is nO‘, everybody who bas 'he education of John Smart Mill, and who
knows theenonpous amount of poverty caused by the artificial laws which
prevent free trade iu land. In America land is bought and sold like other
property; in some of 'he States, there is no necessity to go to a lawyer to
do the transferring, but it can be done in a few minutes at the cost of a few
shillings. Poverty, with the ignorance, vice, and disease it engenders,
must abound in this country so long as free trade in land is prohibited.—
MEETING- IN MARYLEBONE ON NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION.
Last Monday night, the third and concluding meeting in
connection with the Marylebone Society, to consider the ques¬
tion, “Is National Association beneficial to Spiritualism?”
was held at 6, Blandford-street, Baker-street, London. Among
those present were, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. Peele, Mr.
C. White, Mr. A. Joy, Mr. Friehold, Mr. C. Hunt, Messrs. Paul
Brothers, and Mr. Whitley.
Mr. Joy argued that national organisation furnished the
best method of bringing Spiritualism before the ruling section
of society, and those by whom the nation was governed. Did
they not care to save such people ? Were they not our
brothers ? And would not their conversion to Spiritualism
result in better government and better laws? Some were
afraid of creeds creeping into an organisation, but how could
an association composed of persons of all kinds of creeds form
a new one, and how could there be any tyranny where every
member had an equal vote ? Tyranny and papal authority
were much more likely to be established by giving all power
and money to one individual to use as he pleases. In an
organisation if any man assumed Papal authority, the others
would be sure to outvote him.
Mr. Friehold repeated his statements of last week, that the
circumstance that the phenomena of Spiritualism began
through the mediumship of an innocent girl, was an argu¬
ment against organisation, and religious organisations always
did harm. Besides, he was called upon to bow down to the
twenty-four rules of the National Association. It was a
monstrous blunder to have those rules.
Mr. Harrison pointed out that Mr. Friehold was a member
of the Marylebone Association, and was bowing down to its
nine rules. Why did he do this ?
Mr. Friehold replied that he thought that by paying his
shilling a quarter to the Marylebone Association he should do
some good.
Mr. Harrison could not see why paying fifteenpence a quarter
to another association, established for the same purposes,
should do harm.
After a few remarks from Mr. Whitley,
Mr. G. White said that the present was the time for real,
living organisations—not whited sepulchres—where all could
meet with one accord, and share each other’s burdens.
Mr. Paul could not see how there could be any two opinions
about organisation being as good in Spiritualism as in every¬
thing else. The evils of disorganisation and disintegration
were now visible in France, where the people were all quarrel¬
ling in sections, whereas organisation and unity had made Ger¬
many the strongest power in Europe. There was nothing evil
in organisation itself, its function being to give strength; so
if organisation in Spiritualism was bad, the only logical con¬
clusion was that Spiritualism was a bad thing.
The Chairman asked Mr. Maynard to speak on the subject,
and he declined.
Mr. Joy said that Mr. Friehold had simply repeated his
assertions of last week, and ignored the replies which he (Mr.
Joy) had made to them. The twenty-four rules contained
nothing relating to conscience, but were for the good manage¬
ment of the Association, just as public meetings and the
Marylebone Association were regulated by rules; he could not
see the force of Mr. Friehold’s objection to a society regula¬
ting its business by rules. Mr. Friehold had argued that
Jesus Christ did not establish an organisation, but He did, for
He appointed twelve Apostles. It had been said that the
Association would rule people, but it did not rule anybody, and
never pretended to do so.
Mr. Harrison said that he knew of no instance on record of
an ecclesiastical power being founded upon vote by ballot, and
that every argument which had been brought against organised
friendly action, told as strongly against the Marylebone
Association as any other.
Mr. Whitley said that vote by ballot was a modern thing,
and had not been tested. Spiritualism in Marylebone spread
more rapidly before than after organisation.
Mr. Hunt (secretary), and Mr. White, denied the latter
statement, and quoted strong examples to the contrary.
The question “ Will National Association benefit Spirit¬
ualism ? ” was then put to the vote. Ten voted that it would
benefit Spiritualism, and three (Messrs. Friehold, Tilby, and
Whitley) that it would not. The remaining- two or three
listeners present did not vote. There was thus a majority of
more than three to one in favour of national organisation.
The meeting then broke up.
Oct. 23, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
203
(ZToTOgponUence.
[Great freedom it given to corretpondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
A PUBLIC BUILDING FOB SPIRITUALISTS.
Sib,—Perhaps I may be allowed to add to the information
furnished by Mr. E. T. Bennett’s circular about our offices
guarantee fund, that some (very moderate) charge would
generally, if not always, be made for the use of the seance
rooms, whether by members of the Association or other
persons, which rooms might also, perhaps sometimes, be
let for their spiritual purposes. That if we obtained a
sufficient guarantee to justify us in taking a Hall for soirees
and meetings, a charge would also he made for this, whether
used by our Association or others; and that we calculate on
being able to let such a hall for various purposes, whenever
not required by ourselves; the terms varying according
to circumstances, a minimum being charged when it was
let for purposes connected with Spiritualism. We should
also probably be able to let permanently any portion of the
building which might not he required for the immediate
purposes of the Association. The manager, or an assistant,
would, if possible reside on the premises, and a proportionate
deduction be made from his salary. The basement might
perhaps be let as a shop, or in some other remunerative way,
and with which business the Association would of course have
no connection whatever. A portion of the manager’s salary
would also be paid to him by the Association for performing
the duties of assistant secretary, say £50 per annum.
All these items, as well as a due proportion of the receipts
from the reading-room and library, already referred to by
Mr. Bennett, would go to relieve the guarantee fund, a very
small portion of which would therefore probably be required,
even for the first year, which will naturally be our worst one.
I may perhaps be allowed to repeat Mr. Bennett’s statement
that if the institution should “prove self-supporting, the
guarantors will not be called on for their contributions.’’
17th Oct., 1874. Algebnon Jot.
SCIENTIFIC MATERIALISM.
Sib,—I think that I have a claim to protest against the
statements of Mr. John T. Markley, who attributes the in¬
crease of crimes of violence in America, and other evils that
are gross and debasing, to the prevalence of the positive or
materialistic views of the age. I claim this privilege of
protest, because the opinions referred to, as expressed by
the President of the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science, were plainly set before the world by Miss
Martineau herself more than twenty years ago, in letters
that were referred to in your journal with respect not long
since.
There are dull and bigoted Materialists, as well as dull and
bigoted Spiritualists, but sensible men know that it matters
little what you term the substance of nature, so long as you
refer all phenomena to that source. Dr. Tyndall says that
matter is at bottom mystical and transcendental; Spiritualists
say that it is at bottom spiritual, which inner nature becomes
personified in the soul. Then where is the difference ? What
is the quarrel about ? I really do not see, since spirits are
referred to nature and to scientific investigation. Spiritualists,
like Materialists so-called, may believe in a God or they may
not. The belief in spirits does not alter that question in the
least, because for the most part both parties deny that the
Bible is a divine revelation or the word of God. Spiritualism,
as well as Materialism, refers all to nature, however that
nature came to be what it is, or whether it always was what it
is or not. The question of “ origin ” is an open question
to both.
Now, since Spiritualism is making such prodigious progress
in America, may we not just as well attribute “ the fearful
increase of crimes of violence ” to that source ? But it
would be very wrong to do so. The evils referred to have
no connection with philosophical or spiritualistic opinion, but
must be referred to very different causes, which will, I fear,
be in operation for some time yet to comd. Nature must be
studied as a whole, and we must avoid unnatural abstractions,
and the despotism of words, representing the notions of
ignorant times. When we see an egg produce a bird with
feathers and features precisely resembling its parent, and see
it moult its feathers and produce them again similar in every
speck or shade of colouring, does it matter whether so
wonderful an effect he called physical or spiritual ? Or shall
we speak of it as something transcending conception ? The
production of wonder of the mind is little different, and no
wise man will set limits to the power and possibilities of
nature—by nature we mean the substance of nature, or the
thing or entity of which it is composed—and the difficulty
about thought and feeling is not as to the substance, but that
such a fact should occur from a source that is not thought or
sensibility, as light and heat from a cold black mass. The whole
nature of an animated being is aperpetual animal magnetic pro*
cess, that is in every respect the investing of the new matter
with the characteristics and acquirements of the old, just as
with the feathers of the bird referred to; the mental functions and
facts are transferred on and on just like all the rest. Mrs. Tappan
might have learnt this from my “ Letters,” had she trusted
more to learning than to her inspirations. What occurs in
man occurs to his horse and to his faithful dog, whose faith is
transferred on and on to the fresh matter, and it is precisely
the same with the vegetable world. I mean this investing
process, or infection of qualities. The fact is most wonderful,
no doubt, but are we to learn or to limit nature to our powers
of conception ? If the latter, we must fundamentally deprive
it of all limits, since fundamentally all we can know is, that
we know nothing. But this we may know, because the fact
may be observed, that good men may be found in all countries
and under every religion, and with no religion at all. Beliefs
are not so potent on character and conduct as Mr. Markley
supposes; morality and true spirituality are quite separable
from religious beliefs. “Believe and be saved,” was all very
well, but it was followed by, “Have you faith that shall not
only move tables but move mountains, and have not charity,
and it shall avail nothing.” But enough ; Mr. Markley’s state¬
ment is, I say, most slanderous, most unjust, and most untrue,
and it is not a healthy state of things when men try to exalt
themselves or their cause by pulling others down, or by mis¬
representation. Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.
[Mr. Mark ley’s remarks did not appear to ns to refer to scientific mate¬
rialism which may be combined with the highest spirituality of thought—
for there is more fpiiituaiityin Professor Tyndall than in many theologians
—but to materialism in the sense of sensuality and excess of* love of
physical pleasures.—Ed.]
HISTORY OF SPIRITUALISM IN CLERKENWELL.
Sib,—I have twice seen reports in The Spiritualist of state¬
ments made by Mr. Charles Frost, to the effect that he was
“ the founder of the St. John’s Association.” This is inaccu¬
rate. He was not the founder, nor has he at any time had
anything to do with the management of that Association.
The other statements he is reported to have made at the
meeting of the Marylebone Association on the 7th inst.,
namely, that he was “ the first medium publicly entranced in
connection with it ” (the St. John’s Association), and that it
has “just died because men began to manage it by the use of
their own brains instead of acting under the guidance of the
spirits” are equally unreliable.
I send you the following particulars of the early history of
Spiritualism in Clerkenwell and East London, and of the
origin of the St. John’s Association, as I have not seen any
similar record in print, and trust therefore it may of interest.
As early as 1855, seances were held at the Star Coffee-house,
Golden-lane, and at the Cannon Coffee-house, Old-street, the
principal person connected with them being Mr. E. L. Black-
well, and the attendants being chiefly members of the Phoenix
Friendly Society, with which Mr. Blackwell was connected.
These meetings were brought about through curiosity excited
by some lectures by a Mr. Hardinge, a herbalist, tben of the
City-road. These meetings dropped, but iu 1859 Mr. W.
Cresswell had a conversation with Mr. Blackwell which led to
the revival of the seances in that year, at Finsbury Hall,
Bunbill-row, of which Mr. Blackwell was proprietor. Mr.
Cresswell became convinced of the genuineness of the
phenomena, and the meetings were from that time under his
management. No rent was paid for the use of the hall and no
charge made for admission to the meetings—nor was there
any organised society. The room being free to any one,
several persons attended merely out of curiosity and to have
some fun; consequently many of the meetings were very
boisterous. There were some very good physical manifestations
however, and also trance-speaking, and many remarkable tests
were given.
In the spring of 1860 Finsbury Hall was burnt down, but
was rebuilt, and the seances resumed in the latter part of the
same year, hut under different conditions. Most of the mem¬
bers being satisfied of the spiritual origin of the phenomena,
204
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 23, 1874.
thought the matter demanded more serious attention. A room
was therefore now rented, and one penny per week paid by the
regular attendants, the object being to have the right of re¬
fusing to admit strangers. The seances were opened by sing¬
ing, reading from the Bible, and prayer; Mr. J. Davis and Mr.
H. Woolnough, who did much for the St. John’s Association
some years later, were at this time developed as mediums.
The meetings becoming unruly by reason of strong physical
manifestations of a low type, they were discontinued in 1861.
They were, however, revived the same year at the Alliance
Hall, in Old-street, where seances were held on Sunday and
Friday evenings, the members taking the name of the
“ Christian Spiritual Enquirers,” with Mr. Cresswell as secre¬
tary. Here the meetings were carried on for three years.
Commencing from 1861 meetings were also held on Sunday
evenings at St. John’s Hall, Corporation-row, at an earlier
hour than those at the Alliance Hall. These were much in¬
terrupted by annoyances from persons outside, squibs and
fireworks being employed on some occasions to disturb the
sitters. After the discontinuance of the seances at these halls,
the meetings were carried on for some years at private houses,
circles being held at Mr. Cresswell’s, Mrs. Main’s, Mr.
O’Brien’s, in Lincoln’s-inn-fields, Mr. Steele’s, 36, Great
Sutton-street, Mr. Thurgood’s, Remington-street, and at other
places. Later on the principal members of these circles met
together to form a society, the result being the East London
Association of Spiritualists, which was inaugurated on the
8th July, 1868, and of which Mr. Cresswell was secretary.
Several public lectures were delivered under the auspices of
this Association at the Stepney Temperance Hall, Mile-end-
road, three of them being generously given by Mrs. Emma
Hardinge. The last meeting of this society was held on the
7th December, 1869. Doubtless its short life may be
attributed to the fact that the centre of its operations was so
far removed from the old places of meeting. At any rate it
did receive much support from the better part of the old
Spiritualists who had been previously associated with Mr.
Cresswell, and who were now attending the circles at Mr.
Thurgood’s and Mr. Steele’s. Such was the press for admis¬
sion to these circles that it was decided to again form a society
in Clerkenwell. This was done, and thus, in May, 1869, the
St. John’s Association came into existence with meetings at
St. John’s Hall, many of its first members being some of those
who used to meet at that place eight years before as the
“ Christian Spiritual Enquirers.” I regret that since the
decease of the first East London Association, Mr. Cresswell,
who did so much good earlier in our movement, has taken no
active part in the work of Spiritualism.
Lately one or two societies have been started in East London,
hut have been short-lived. The best and most permanent work
has been that accomplished by Mr. Cogman, who is deserving
the best support of East-end Spiritualists. Many persons con¬
nected with the early meetings I have spoken of remember
Mr. Cogman as a lecturer on phrenology and mesmerism, and
a total sceptic as to matters spiritual. 1 believe it was not till
1867 or 1868 that he became convinced of the truth of Spirit¬
ualism. I may mention, in concluding this sketch, that atthe
time that the seances were held at the Alliance Hall, Mr.
Barber, now the president of the St, John’s Association, used
to occasionally attend, and Mr. Cresswell says he was the most
liberal as regards his purse of any of their visitors. At that
time Mr. Barber was an Atheist, and he is one of several who
have been brought from Atheism to Spiritualism by the instru¬
mentality of the St. John’s Association. R. Peabce.
Wood-green, Oct. 19th, 1874.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN SPIRITUALISM.
Sib,—I regret to say that the engraved wood-block of a
mummy intended as an illustration to The Doctrine of Im¬
mortality among the Ancient Egyptians, sent from Smyrna by
M. Constant, has miscarried in its transmission through the
post.
The delay consequent on making the necessary inquiries as
to its fate has alone prevented me from sending you the re¬
mainder of the “ Study ” for publication.
The insertion of these few lines will account to your readers
and to M. Constant for the non-appearance of the second part
of his able and interesting paper. Emily Kislingbuey.
The Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne, has published
an account of the first National Association soiree, at Cleve¬
land Hall, London, and speaks of it as a great success.
Sunday Lectures in Brighton—Last Sunday evening
Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan delivered the last of her series of
inspirational lectures in Brighton, at the Grand Concert Hall,
in the presence of a very large auditory. The subject chosen
for her was “ The Judgement Day.” The gist of her argument
was that the consciences of men are continually judging them,
and that the fires wherewith they are purified are spiritual,
ever searching into man’s nature, striving to separate the
gold from the dross.
Metropolitan Sunday Lectures.—Next Sunday even¬
ing Mrs. Tappan will recommence her inspirational lectures
in London, at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-
street, and it is to be hoped there will he a good attendance.
On the same evening Miss Tredwell, a new medium, will
lecture at the Cleveland Hall, and Mrs. Bullock will deliver a
trance address at the Goswell Hall. A meeting will also be
held at the Doughty Hall, and Mr. Cogman will give a trance
discourse at 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end.
Spiritualism in Germany.—M. Aksakof, of St. Peters¬
burg, who has been travelling for some months in the interior
of Russia, writes to us that he discovers, as the result of his
literary efforts to disseminate a knowledge of Spiritualism in
Germany, that the Germans, as a rule, are bitterly opposed to
the whole subject. In England there is a dead weight of
apathy regarding Spiritualism rather than venomous opposition.
Mr. Reimers, of Manchester, has begun to contribute to Psychic
Studies, M. Aksakof’s journal in Leipzig.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
T.—Barrow-in-Furness : Your .last letter has been overlooked, but
we hope to get it in next week.
The resignation of Mr. C. W. Pearce was not accepted at the last
meeting of the Council of the National Association, but the
matter was deferred, for his reconsideration.
Nos. 1, 6, 21, 22, 24, and 25, of the first volume of The Spiritualist,
are now out of print, and can be obtained only by ordering com¬
plete sets. About 300 odd copies in all, of the rest of the 28
numbers of the first volume, may be had at 10s. per hundred.
They are full of valuable information and articles by standard
contributors; moreover, in a few yean-.’ time, single copies of the
early large-sized numbers of The Spiritualist, will be somewhat
scarce curiosities, since the movement is spreading so rapidly.; ^
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Yraiswrer.—Herbert N. Mozlby, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices —64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. <Sec.—Mbs. Lowe (LOUISA)
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
Londos :—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
SPIRITUALISM
FROM A NEUTRAL STAND-POINT.
A Resume of Evidence—pro and con.
BY H. VENMAN.
Post-free for 13 Stamps.
Ingle & Co., 20, Pimlico-road, London, S-.W.
£1 000 REWARD-—MAtSKELYNE & coore*
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON. JOY, M.I.O.E. (Iota).
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane.
Price One Penny.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL B00K-
• -SELLER, STATIONER AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist. 39. Smallbrook- street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Couiitry Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
, Established 1842.
HENRY B. B D S H,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER LETTER-
PRESS, COPPERPLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the chubch).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist N ewspaper
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
Oct. 23, 1874.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND GLAIRYOYANTE, whose reputation is
. well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays exceptei.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover squaro. two doors from Regem-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to <5 p m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woogforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumshin-
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-bill, H.W.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, H Idei’s-hill. Hendon. N.W.
Fi z-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs.. 21, Green-street Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.O., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Ross-Churcb, Mrs (FlorenceMarryat), 21, Colville-rd.,Kensingston-pk., W.
Smith, Martin R, Beathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campden-h.il), Eensington.
R. W. G. SCORE T, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several eases, is again onen to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W Please write.
ISS GODFREY, CURAT LYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND'MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-ruad, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
T Y. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
"R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
kR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfield, Esq., IS,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico. S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture. Terms 2 guineas.
QBALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint^
l>0 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Monsy refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyrrman.
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Caircs-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thofnham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, BA., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blaokheath. s.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice. D.D, 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-ehambeVs. Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder-s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34 Walnut-s'reet, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., Waterloo Hotel, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isha.m, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64. Seymour-sti eet, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road. Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, Hing’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road. st. John’e-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P.,«'lub-chambers. Regent street.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29. Dalvell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Cen'ral-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill Hodse, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Alien burg-terrace, Clapbam Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
IS1TORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. JACKSON’S Table d'flote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torringtom-square, London, W.C.
A LADY COMPANION. Age not beyond 35; a
Spiritualist; a good mudeian (thorough); healthy, and a good
walker; good sight, as she would have to read to and walk with a gentle¬
man nearly blind. To make herself generally useful in writing letters when
required, or doing needlework, &c., &c. A comfortable, hdme, but very
quiet. Good salary. Apply Lady Companion, 15, Southampton.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee
Mrs, Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
Information about the society may be obtained from the Officers of the
Association by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee Rooms,
80, Parkfleld-street, Islington.  ' 
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE.
49, Graiuger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in slock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-stieet, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres¬
pondence)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tern.).
Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein. Lieutenant-General, Aide-da-Camp
General de S.I.M. PEmpereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baren Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pasth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and .Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas. Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting. New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko. Esq., 71, Molenstraat. the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammontoo, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiri ualist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52. Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D.. Australia.
M. Ley marie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
MmeG. de Veh. 26, Avenue des Champs-Ely see s, Paris.
Gr. O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 85, Leipsic.
Mons. Buguet, Paris. '
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 23, 1874,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. G-. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. It. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D. ; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq , M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah,' Esq., F.Q.S.;, Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq ; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Q.uelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drg. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“ George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H- D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceedingtr cun
articles of furniture, the floor and walls or the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in *
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the-committee, persons of social j
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im-
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no restlts be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but - cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
hall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
ouch eacb other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the-table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
, , 3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message f " Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
te afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences..
The majority of media are ladies.
Toe best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations aro bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATifi STREET, BOLBjRN, LONDON, W.O.
In the Priuting Department every arrangement has been made for the
promp' execution of all orders. Printing of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application. -  
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “PIONEEROF PROGRESS" LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, ScientiSc and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman
20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain
gratis, all informa1 ion concerning the various societies, national and local
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
All communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
mHE TWO DISCOVERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
JL SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of (the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the path of duty; also _the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematical discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
drools.
In handsome Cloth, price 2s. 6d. post free.
Psychopathy or, the true healing art.
By JOSEPH ASHMAN,
Principal of the Psychopathic Institution, 254, Marylebone-road, London,
N.W.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—Introduction.
Dissatisfaction with Ordinary Systems of Medicine—The Nature of
Disease-One primal Principle of Cure—Weaknets and Strength—Man
like an Engine—What is Vital Force?—Health, Breath, the Blood—The
Vital Principle beyond these.
Chapter II.—The Vital Principle.
The Stomach—Man a Plant—The Internal Sun—Man a Microcosm-
Caloric—Arterial Combustion—Temperature of the Body—The Nervous
System a Source of Heat—Ner.e Force—Difference between the Gan¬
glionic and the Cerebral and Cerebro-Spinal Nerves — Office of the
Ganglia and the Cerebellum—Nature of the Vis Hervosa—'lhe Soul
Force.
Chapter III.—On the Nature and Cure of Disease.
The Perfect Magnet—t’he Healthy Organism—The Source of Vital
Fores—How produced—The Vital Force and Nerve-aura may be Com¬
municated—Tne Influence of the old on the Young—The Hand a Psychial
Instrument—Tne Philosophy of Hand-Shaking.
Chapter IV.—Healing.
Two Vital Fluids—Their Signs—The Vital Magnetic Fluid: Mode of
Applying it—The Power of the Hand over the Temperature of the Body—
The Nerves the Medium of Influence—Proc<-ss without Contact-
Healing at a Distance: Marvellous Cures—The Impartation of the Aura
to Water, &c.—Necessity of Passivity and Benevolence—Concluding
Remarks.
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. .W
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London E.G,
