AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD,]
No. 142.—(Vol. VI.—No. 20.) LONDON: MAY 14, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(STontents.
Recognisable Spirits         
The Late Mrs. Marshall:—A Southcottian Prophetess   230
The National Association Soiree:—Mr. Martin Smith on Friendly
Union among Spiritualists—A Supply of Books to the Reading-Room
—The Objpctions of Hostile Critics Considered—The Bazaar  232
Goswell Hall Sunday Services... ...   1  ....    233
Mr. Coleman on Professor Mapes’s Advocacy of Spiritualism   233
Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris   234
Private Seance:—New Manifestations Through the Mediumship of
Miss Showers—Remarkable Tests—Cabinet Manifestations Pro¬
duced with the Hands and Feet of the Medium in Sight  234
The Firman Fiasco in Paris:—The Proces Verbal—Mr. and Mrs. Fir¬
man's Reply       ... -   • ... 234
Correspondence:—Suggested Tests; Spiritualism in Liverpool—Open
Air Meetings—A Spiritualistic Hotel; Spiritualism in the Furness
District; The Alleged “ Firman Exposure ” in Paris; Duplication
of Form; The Case of Mr. and Mrs. Coles; The Education of the
Children of Spiritualists; Spiritualism in Birmingham; Remark¬
able Spiritual Seances in Edinburgh  236
Mr. Dale Owen on The Holmes’s Seances   239
Review ... ... ... Iv. ... ...      ... ... 240
Paragraphs :—Mr. Morse in America, 236; Reception at Mrs. Gregory’s,
239; Mrs. Fay in Birmingham, 239; Disgraceful Treatment of a
Medium     240
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Establisheb 187 0.)
President.
Henry D. Jencken, Esq,, M.R.I., F.R.G.S. (Barrister-at-Law)
Gouncil
Mr. A. Ferguson Black.
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton
Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Mrs. Amelia Corner.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mr. R Pomeroy Tredwen.
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
Hon. Sec. and Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
The purposes of the Association are:—
(1) . The collection of well-authenticated facts affecting Spiritualism,
through its own circle, or circles, and other available sources, so as to form
a basis for sound judgment.
(2) . By various means to offer facilities to investigators, and to induce
others to give the matter careful inquiry, with a view to a better understand¬
ing of the phenomena and teachings of Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar As¬
sociations {vide Rule IX.). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary
seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to which strangers
are admitted, under the same regulations as are inforced on theyfrst Thurs¬
day evening in each month.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, members of the Associa¬
tion have the privilege of utilising the well-stocked Library, comprising
numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects. AH the
English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are regularly supplied to
the Rooms for the perusal of Members.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of
the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed en¬
velope should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies. Copies of the
Prospectus, Rules, Circle Regulations, and directions “how to form: Spirit
* f Circles,’’ with any further information, to be obtained on application to
the Secretary at his private residence, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, E.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
B
EVERIDGE AND
FULLWOOD’
*00., Printers of The Sp
S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions o
Estimates forwarded on application.
{ritualist
Printing.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, ’and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
Light refreshments supplied at moderate charges.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD A
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES
On the first Wednesday of each month until further notice.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting;
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition
Hours, from 7 to 10.80 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s.' 6d.
To be obtained in advance of the resident secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL A SS O Cl A TI ON 0 F
SPIRITUALI STS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Dr the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject:
The probable effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
llellgious Condition of Society.
Second Prize, £10.
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualism.
The .essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875, to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Rusaell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C., of
whom further particulars can be had on application.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 14, 1875,
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Wobum-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOQN.—Continued.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S; Olcott
14s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
7s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE, by Lizzie Do ten. Last edition,
gilt. 10s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work
containing interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality
of spirit communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the
author’s views of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian
Church. 7s. 6d.
THE IDENTITY OF PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D. A valuable
work, containing useful information relating to the Scientific and
Religious aspects of Spiritualism, and replete with well authenticated
descriptions of manifestations. 12s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete
with well authenticated narratives describing manifestations produced
by Spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and
other professional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years
without engaging the services of any professional medium, after which
they published the report. Original edition, 15s.; abridged edition,
5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifi¬
cally demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism. 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in
reply to Hume’s Essay on Miracles. It also records a large number of
interesting spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal
experiences of Mr. Wallace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual
phenomena. Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to
Religion and Science is also given. 6s.; New edition, 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt
edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This book consists of
essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism,
3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fritz. A practically useful work for inquirers, giving
general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism.
3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law, An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of
the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are pro¬
duced by an alleged Psychic Force, unconsciously governed in its
action by the thoughts of the medium or the spectators. 8s. The
first vol. of this book, which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of
print.
GLIMPSES OF ‘THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly published book contains Facts and Traditions
relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings and
Witchcraft. The author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but
considers Modern Spiritualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives
valuable facts, previously unpublished, and prints the only authorised
and complete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCE OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Frse Will. 2s. 6d.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND, by Maria M. King. 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, by Lizzie Doten. Best edition, gilt.
10s. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard/ 6d.
MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. Newton. Is. 3d.
LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell, Is. 3d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles.
5s. 6d.
Flashes of light from the spirit world.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANlh 7s. Gd.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 12s. Gd.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOVERIES, by William Denton. 6s. Gd.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. Gd.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. Vol. I., 78. 6d.
Vols. II and III 8s. each.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. Gd.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY. '
Office-Bearers foe 1875.
President.—AStointos Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasures'.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
E. Oasson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discoyery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instructioi},
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
MABYLEBONE association of inquirers into
SPIRITUALISM.
THE object of the Committee and of the Members gene¬
rally is, to spread abroad a knowledge of the great and precious
truths of Spiritualism. We unite and labour for this purpose, and ear¬
nestly hope for the co-operation of all who are solicitous that their fellow-
men should become acquainted with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-com¬
munion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
_  Charles J. Hunt, Eon. Secretary.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has d very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
umbrellas.
r po THE GUARDIANS OF ORPHAN GENTLEWOMEN,
JL or others deprived of the advantages of a Home Circle. A Lady of
unsectarian and liberal views wishes to receive into her house Three
Young Ladies from the age of sixteen, in order to complete their studies
by means of the classes held at the Crystal Palace School of Art,
where the best masters are engaged. Board and residence, exclusive of
school fees, 120 guineas per annum. Young ladies of good family from the
Continent or the Colonies would be acceptable. Address Y Z, Nicnolls,
Newsagent, Upper Norwood.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer,
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W.
Allen Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERR'S, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world, Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
TO SPIRITUALISTS.—A valuable opportunity is now
presented to Spiritualists of increasing their temporal means.
Particulars, with conditions, may be obtained from A. Snow, 18, Atling-
worth-street, Brighton.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR-
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Association, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
&A9
j[ Ulmrb uf ilp JVtrgrm xr| ^atti $$
VOLUjVIE pix. jHUJVIBEF} TWENTY.
LONDON. FRIDAY. MAY 14th, 1870.
Cjr,e SpMtealist
Established in 1869.
HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS:—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
OORRESPONDBNCJG.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous "Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &e., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ - Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist vas.y'be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
FEMALE MEDICALSOcIeTY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper .facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
RECOGNISABLE SPIRITS.
One of the most triumphant proofs of the reality of
spiritual communion which can possibly he conceived
would be the appearance of the departed to their relatives
still living, and holding communion with them in the
presence of 4witnesses, just as when they lived upon
earth. Consequently, when the news first reached
England, some four or five years ago, of the appearance
of materialised spirits of the departed through the
mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, at Moravia, U.S., ex¬
pectations were raised, that similar great results would
speedily be achieved here, because the chief manifesta¬
tions which have first drawn the attention of American
Spiritualists have, in nearly all cases, been subsequently
obtained and verified in this country. At that time
dark circle manifestations, in which musical instru¬
ments were floated about the room, and spirits spoke
with the direct voice independently of the medium
were common, so mediums who already obtained mani¬
festations of this kind began to‘sit for materialised
faces. These soon came, but at first in a dim light only.
As the power grew, it was discovered that the faces
were the duplicates of those of the mediums; conse¬
quently an elaborate system of testing had to be devised
and carried out, to show that the mediums were not
personating materialised spirits bearing their own
external appearance. After it was thus discovered
that these spirits had very much the form and appear¬
ance of their mediums, their mental characteristics
were more closely studied, and it was soon seen that
they knew very little more than their mediums, also
that their knowledge was limited by the mortal instru¬
ment they used. Thus the first effect of materialisa¬
tions was to weaken rather than to strengthen the
theory which attributed the phenomena to the spirits
of the departed; and the question arose whether the
spirit of the medium, or of some deceptive power con¬
trolling the medium, might not be producing wonderful
manifestations, and at the same time pretending to be
the spirit of a departed person.
But of late, further news has come to this country
from America of the appearance there of the veritable
spirits of the departed to their relatives still living, but
these phenomena have not yet been so verified in this
country as to carry weight. The Holmes’s first sat
regularly in public in London for recognisable faces;
these mediums were thoroughly untrustworthy, yet at
times had genuine and wonderful physical manifesta¬
tions. Their sittings for recognisable faces were held
on their own premises; they used a bedroom as a
cabinet, and before every seance there was a complicated
system of searching this bedroom and of gumming
strips of paper over the doors and windows to show
that no outsiders could obtain entrance while the mani¬
festations were in progress; all this might have been
avoided by the simple plan of hanging a curtain across
a corner of the drawing-room and using the space
behind the curtain as a cabinet. This we several times
230
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 14, 1875.
asked them to do, but they invariably refused. For
several weeks we went to their seances to take what we
could get, since they shunned simple test conditions,
and during that fortnight dim faces came to the orifice of
the cabinet in a subdued light; these faces usually
were not recognised, although sometimes a spectator,
generally a lady, would gaze at one of them in a doubt¬
ful kind of way, and then say, hesitatingly—“ Are you
my grandmother ?” The head would nod gravely three
times, and some enthusiastic reporter present would
draw up an account of a marvellous recognition of a
departed friend, which read, beautifully in print,
although the facts appeared to be dubious to the un¬
biassed spectators present at the time. We watched
patiently for some wdeks for one face which everybody
could see in a clear light, and which some reliable
person then recognised as a relative, but no such case
occurred, consequently it was not found possible to
give one case authenticated by this journal, notwith¬
standing so much observation and expenditure of time.
All that could be done was to print one or two accounts
furnished to us by reliable people, who were present
when the conditions were more favourable. That it is
necessary to be thus cautious in recognising the
genuineness of new manifestations has since been
proved.
Another public circle for recognisable faces sat a few
times, shortly afterwards. On one occasion two ex¬
citable ladies witnessed the manifestations, and as fast
as the face of a spirit, or anything white appeared at
the aperture, one of the ladies recognised it as her
uncle, or her brother, or her aunt, or her first cousin;
the other lady wanted to recognise these faces too, but
the first lady was too quick for her, and always claimed
them before the other could get in a word, which was
very hard upon the second one who was not so sharp.
The Eddy Brothers in America are reported in
American spiritual newspapers to have obtained mani¬
festations in which a vast number of recognisable
spirits have been identified; but on critically reading
through a great number of the reports of their
seances published in the Banner of Light and the lieligio-
Philosophical Journal, we discovered and published in
these pages that the observers almost invariably kept
silence as to the amount of light, and that where they
did not so keep silence, as in the case of the report of
Dr. Ditson, they admitted that the light was so bad that
they could not see the features of the alleged spirits.^Thus
the evidence as to recognisable features in the case of
the manifestations of the Eddy Brothers depended
chiefly upon the testimony of an old Mrs. Cleveland
and a Mr. Pritchard; no doubt both very estimable
persons. They asserted that they recognised the spirits,
and they told the other persons sitting at a distance in
the darkness, what they had seen.
Mr. Robert Cooper has been to see the Eddy Brothers,
and he is known in this country as one who would be
likely to give a common-sense description of what he
saw. His experiences have been published in the
Religio-PJiilosophical Journal of May 1st, and for the
most part they agree with the accounts which have been
written by those who have been at the Eddy’s before
him. He says: “ The great dra wback to the materiali¬
sation seance is that the figures do not appear generally
in a sufficiently strong light to be satisfactorily visible.”
He says that on March 17th, “ The most interesting
event of the evening to myself, was the appearance of a
figure dressed in white who purported to be my wife;
the light was not strong enough for me to identify the
features ; all I could see was that the size of the figure
corresponded with that of my wife, and that the hair
was done in the same style, hanging down each side of
the face.”
In another part of his article, he says of the Eddy
manifestations, that “ They do away with the duplicate
theory, for in no case is there the slightest resemblance
between the spirit and the medium, either in form or
voice.”
But^ considering that it is known that portions of
bodies of mediums can sometimes be elongated and con¬
tracted, the body of Mr. Home, for instance, having
several times been elongated in the presence of wit¬
nesses ; and considering that it is an established fact
that the spirits which appear in London through well-
tested mediums, who get voice-circle manifestations,
are the duplicates in appearance of those mediums, not
only is there no duplication “ theory” in the case, so far
as London is concerned, but Mr. Cooper has not proved
that a different kind of manifestation was witnessed by
him at Chittenden, for he did not see the faces of the
spirits, and difference in size amounts to nothing. He
may ask whether it is conceivable that the spirits should
deceive by asserting themselves to be persons they are
not. All we can say is that not one of the John’s, and
Katie’s, and Florence’s, and Peter’s in London, has
proved his or her identity, and that in most cases the
stories they have told about themselves at different
times, have flatly contradicted each other.
THE LATE MRS. MARSHALL.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualists
Sik,—As a kind of obituary notice of the late Mrs. Mar¬
shall, perhaps you may like to give , space to the following,
which is taken from the romance entitled The Coming Man,
by the late James Smith, author of The Divine Drama of
History and Civilisation, and for many years editor of the
Farfiily Herald. It is generally taken for granted that by
“ Mrs. Ferrier ” is meant Mrs. Marshall.
Red Hill. Yours faithfully, Keningale Cook. ]
A SOUTHCOTTIAN PROPHETESS.
Eva went first and opened a door on the first landing, and
called out, “Mrs Ferrier, where are you?” Betty followed,
and Edward brought up the rear, and all three soon found
themselves together in a meanly furnished apartment with
two windows, a piece of carpet on the middle of the floor, two
tables, and several chairs pretty well covered with dust, and a
number of old musical instruments, fiddles, flutes, clarionets,
guitars hanging on the wall, with a very old harp standing
near one of the windows, the strings nearly all broken and the
gilding almost all washed off, or so covered with dust that it
could not be seen. On the mantelpiece, which was of marble,
and of considerable value, stood an iron cast in bas-relief of
the woman of Samaria speaking to Christ at the well.
“ Mrs. Ferrier! ” said Eva, looking into an inner door,
which seemed to lead to the kitchen. And in a short time
Mrs. Ferrier appeared. She was a very stout woman, about
forty years of age, with dark hair and dark eyes,—eyes that
projected greatly, and seemed to be swaddled in fat. Her
manner was kind and affectionate, open, frank, and indepen¬
dent, and she spoke to Eva as a familiar friend. Betty she
treated with equal respect, shaking hands with her, and
inquiring kindly after her health. She requested them all to
sit down, and made an apology for the state of the apartment,
saying that she had no servant, and was herself unable to
work much.
“Besides,” she said, “the Word forbids me. Does this
gentleman know the Word ?”
“ No,” said Eva, “he knows nothing. We met him at the
door and brought him up; but he is a friend of ours, and you
may say what you please before him. I have no secrets.”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
231
May 14, 1875.
“ And I have none,’' said Mrs. Ferrier; “ only my talk is
strange to them as don’t know me. Well, as I was saying,
the Word forbids me. He says I am sent not to work but to
teach.”
” Who is the Word ? ” said Edward.
At this question Mrs. Ferrier gave a convulsive start, and
said—
” The Word !—the Word is a fire in the inward parts—the
woice of Him that walketh in man, even as a man walketh in
his garden.”
Edward started; and as Mrs. Ferrier seemed much excited,
he began to think that he was in the presence of a maniac.
“You must know, sir, that the woice that spake to the
prophets of old is speaking again to man in these days. He
is stretching forth His hand a second time to gather His people
and bring them out of bondage; and He comes in the woman
the second time, for the man can do nothing alone! ’Tis
true ! ’Tis the woice that speaketh.”
Here Mrs. Ferrier was again convulsed, and put her hand
on her chest, whilst she sighed deeply.
“ This seems strange,” said Edward to Eva. “ What does
all this mean ?”
“ You must find it out,” said Eva. “ I cannot tell you.”
“Don’t be alarmed,” said Mrs. Ferrier; “these young
women know my way, and they are not afraid. Perfect love
casteth out fear. I suppose you have never read the woman’s
writings ? ”
“ Woman’s writings! ” said Edward. “ What woman ? ”
Eva laughed and looked at Betty, and the two girls seemed
greatly to enjoy Edward’s simplicity and astonishment.
“ I mean the woman Joanna Southcott.”
“ Joanna Southcott! That old impostor that was going to
bring forth the Messiah!”
“ That’s the woman I mean,” said Mrs. Ferrier. “ She
was an impostor, and everything is imposture to those who do
not understand it. She has imposed upon us. She imposed
upon herself; and the Word has made fools of us all. We
shall be the wiser for it afterwards.”
“ Eva, I am astonished at you,” said Edward.
“ And I am astonished at you,” said Eva.
“ What! you don’t mean to say that you believe in Joanna
Southcott?” said Edward.
“ I don’t mean to say anything at all. I don’t know what I
believe. My father was a Jew and my mother was a Christian.
My uncle is a man of open mind, and my aunt is a woman of
enclosed, but impassioned mind. I have the blood and tbe
milk of many religions in me—so many that I am quite con¬
founded. But, Edward, I am not prejudiced. I do not con¬
demn unheard. Now, I am astonished at a man of your
intelligence and professed liberality and candour going with
the mob in a vulgar prejudice, and condemning a woman of
whom you know nothing. It is not only unjust, but it is
nngallant. Which is the most foolish, you or I? You who
follow the judgment of the rabble, literate and illiterate, or I
who despise all railing accusations, and think for myself when
I think at all?”
Edward was abashed. To be taught charity and feeling and
strict absolute justice by a girl was humbling to his pride.
But the openness and candour of his natural disposition soon
relieved him from the embarrassment.
“ You are right, Eva,” he said. “ I deserve the rebuke. I
shall only ask one other question. Does your uncle know that
you visit this house ? ”
“ He does, and you may describe this scene to him if you
please. Perhaps I shall describe it for you, and at your
expense, too,” said Eva, smiling, “ if you don’t take care.”
Thus kindly admonished and cautioned, Edward considered
that it would be wisdom in him just to hold his tongue until
he knew what to say.
“ The Word says, ‘ Fear not! I am with you ! I will clear
up all mysteries at last. Let the young man think! The
spirit is strengthened by thinking. I am the Lord! I am
coming! I am coming to establish the catholic law—even
the universal law of nature—to redeem man from the fall, and
to give him to eat of the tree of life. I shall come in secret
before I show myself openly! Did I not say I shall come as a
thief ? I shall take you by surprise! I shall break in upon
you by stealth in the night! I shall come as a man—as a
man under the fall! If I did not, how should I raise up him
that is fallen? ’Tis a mystery, but I shall make it clear.
Fear not. The young man has faith. I will teach him that
which it is useful for him to know. I will feed him with the
food convenient for him. You know not how to feed one
another. I am the feeder of all.’ ”
“ ’Tis the Word that speaks,” continued Mrs. Ferrier.
“ Do you mean to say,” said Edward, “ that a spirit speaks
these words to you, or commands you to speak them ? ”
“ Yes,” said Mrs. Ferrier, “ I do; my mouth is forcibly used
to speak words which are not my own. Sometimes I hear
them spoken inwardly, and repeat them afterwards ; sometimes
I see a wision, and a person in wision converses with me.
There are warious ways. But they are quite different from
my own thoughts.”
“ And how long have you been visited in this manner ? ”
“ Since 1827, on Whit Sunday, when the power first came
upon me suddenly, and threw me down on the floor in a state
of insensibility. It has never left me since. It communes
daily with me as man with man, and gives me adwice on all
subjects, even relating to household matters and going to
market.”
“ Then it must be a familiar spirit,” said Edward.
“ It is a familiar spirit,” said Mrs. Ferrier.
“ Moses was ordered to cut such persons as you from the
face of the earth.”
“ Moses was ordered to do many things, but not to save man
from the fall. I have nothing to do with Moses. He was
faithful to his own mission—I must be faithful to mine.
Moses has no power now ; his day has gone by.”
“ But are you not afraid that you are doing wrong? ”
“No; I have no fear of the sort. A wisitation of the spirit
removes fear.”
At this moment a knock was heard at the door, and on Mrs.
Ferrier saying “ Come in,” the door was opened, and two
gentlemen, dressed in black, entered, and bowed to Mrs. Ferrier
in a distant manner. She introduced them to her previous
visitors as two gentlemen belonging to the Irvingites, in
Newman-street, a church with twelve apostles, of whom Henry
Drummond, the banker, at Charing-cross, is the chief, he
being called the Pillar of the Apostles.
“ We do not call ourselves Irvingites,” said one of the men
somewhat indignantly, as he took hold of a chair to seat him¬
self ; “ we belong to the Apostolical Church. It is merely a
restoration of the head which the Episcopal Church has lost.”
“ There is another head to come,” said Mrs. Ferrier—“ the
head of the Apostles, unless you mean to set up Drummond as
the man to come.”
“ There is, and we look for his coming.”
“ Well, it is to them that look for him that he will come.”
“ But we must be subject to the power and authority of the
Church,” said the man. “ Such straggling spirits as yours are
out of order ; they ought to be subject to the Church.”
“ Well,” said Mrs. Ferrier, “let the Church subject them.
The strong man armed gives way when a stronger man than he
comes.”
“ But, Mrs. Ferrier, you resist a constituted authority; you
are obedient neither to bishops nor apostles.”
“ I am obedient to a higher power. You are not subject to
the Church bishops, because you say you have apostles to
govern and direct you. I am not subject to your apostles,
because I have a greater than Henry Drummond to direct me.
The Word says, ‘ These men want to change thy faith and
make thy spirit subject to theirs. This cannot be; tell them
from me this cannot be.’ ”
“ This cannot be the Holy Spirit,” said one of 4he men to
his companion; “ the Holy Spirit is a spirit of order and
subordination.”
“ Ask these men what is the Holy Spirit—ask them if it is
not the spirit of the whole man. Have they that spirit ? ”
“ We believe we have.”
“ Then why are the bishops not subject to it ? Let the men
answer thee. They have it not—no man has it. It is not yet
come. Let things go on as now till the time appointed.”
' “ This is blasphemy,” said one of the men.
“ Ask them what blasphemy is. They know not; no man
knows what blasphemy is, for he knows not what the whole
spirit is against whom it is spoken. Tell the men that in
following their own faith they do well, but not in attempting
to persuade thee to abandon thine. I am a God of order, and
will make men do my work; for if they have not a will of
their own I will give them one.”
Edward became more and more impressed with the novelty
and singularity of the scene in which he now took part. The
opposition of the two gentlemen had at first pleased and re¬
assured him; for he had little doubt, from their appearance as
intelligent men and men of education, that they would say
something powerful in support of the view he had at first
taken of the matter. But Mrs. Ferrier was a woman who was
not easily conquered or even confounded in argument. Her
232
mind was very open, her faith very large, amounting even to
credulity, and she had no hesitation in admitting that people
who even differed from herself and opposed her were visited
by the Spirit of God and acted by authority. To prove the
mission of their own Church, therefore, the two gentlemen
found of no use. She was beforehand with them. She
acknowledged it. They could not argue with her. Her faith
was larger than theirs ; for she received all their faith, whilst
they rejected part of hers. Yet she was an ignorant, unedu¬
cated woman, spoke bad grammar with a cockney style of
pronunciation, which sometimes gave the most solemn sayings
which she uttered a most ludicrous character.
What surprised Edward most was the faith which these two
gentlemen appeared to possess in the reality of her visitation.
They did not seem to regard her as an impostress; they only
treated the spirit as an outlaw who had no legitimate mission
to the Church, and whose word could not be received or
depended upon because it was not subject to the authority of
the Apostles at Albury, the seat of Henry Drummond.
He felt disposed to take another stand, and argue upon the
vulgar principle of imposture, or mania, or enthusiasm, or
indigestion, or some other scientific cause which modern phi¬
losophers appear to understand so well. But when he looked
at Eva he felt the dread of her rebuke, as well as the weakness
of the argument, and he resolved to be quiet, and listen to
the controversy. It ended as all other controversies do, by
each party regarding the other with contempt or dissatisfaction
for not suffering itself to be beat.
• THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION SOIREE.
On Wednesday evening, last week, the usual monthly soiree
of the British National Association of Spiritualists was held
at their Rooms, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.C., under the presidency of Mr. Martin R. Smith. There
was a large attendance of friends—as large, in fact, as could
be accommodated in the five rooms at the disposal of the As¬
sociation for social gatherings of this kind.
Among the friends present were Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr.
F. Smith, Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., Mr. Frederick Collingwood
(Secretary to the Anthropological Institute), Major S. R. I.
Owen, F.L.S., Mr. Frederick Varley, F.R.A.S., the Misses Var-
ley, Mrs. Elgie Corner (Florence Cook), Mr. Henry D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Miss Leith, Miss Carpenter, Mr. and Mrs.
Fay, Mr. Christian Reimers, Mr..and Mrs. Keningale Cook,
Mr. and Miss Shorter, Miss Lottie Fowler, Mrs. Gunyon, Mr.
H. Withall, the Misses Withal, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Cook, Mr.
and Mrs. Earl Bird, Mr..E. T. Bennett, Mrs. and Miss Kisling-
bury, Mrs. Maltby, Miss Amelia Williamson, Miss Ellen Wil¬
liamson, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, Mr. E. P. Ashton, Mr. E.
Dawson Rogers, Mrs. Rogers and family, Miss Houghton,
Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mrs. Lowe, Mr. Cogman, Mrs. and Miss Sex¬
ton, Miss Malvina Claxton, Mi'. Glendinning, Mr. Selwood,
and Mr. Harrison.
The apartments thrown open on this occasion were the
Library and Reading-room, in which a few speeches were
made in the course of the evening; the Council chamber, in
which a piano had been placed for the occasion—so this room
was thronged by those guests who were partial to music; the
seance room, in which were some spirit drawings and paint¬
ings. The tea was given in a room unfurnished for want of
funds, but which some of the members hope will soon be used
for the purposes of a philosophical department; the other
room open was the branch office of The Spiritualist newspaper,
in which, towards the close of the evening, Mr. Frederick
Varley exhibited a reflecting galvanometer, designed by Mr.
Harrison, for the purpose of testing duplication of form in
cabinet seances, on the principle adopted by Messrs. Varley and
Crookes. This instrument was made by order of Mr. Charles
Blackburn, who generously intends to present it to the
National Association. It was not at work on this occasion, but
probably will be shown in action at the next soiree.
May 14, 1875.
ME. MAKTIN SMITH ON FRIENDLY UNION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS:—
A SUPPLY OP BOOKS TO THE READING-ROOM—THE OBJECTIONS
OP HOSTILE CRITICS CONSIDERED—THE BAZAAR.
Mr. Martin R. Smith addressed the friends in the library as
follows:—
Ladies and Gentlemen,—We meet in our own rooms to¬
night for the first time, and I confess itis with no little feeling
of gratification that I greet you here. The rooms might per¬
haps be bigger, might be more suitable for such meetings as
these, might doubtless be many things which they are not,
but they are our home, our first home, and as such we are all
more ready to take a pride rather than to pick holes in them.
I am sure that you will agree with me that it is all-important
for us to be domiciled as we are. Indeed, it is a wonderful
proof to me of the strength and soundness of our Association
that we have managed to hold together so long and so well as
we have without a roof over our heads.
There could not be a better time than the present to give
some expression to the great debt of gratitude which is owed
by the Association to certain of its members, especially to those
ladies and gentlemen who have placed their names on our list
of guarantors. I should explain, perhaps (as possibly some
among us may be strangers), that a sum of £200 per annum
or thereabouts has been thus guaranteed for three years to the
Association for the purposes of rent, furnishing, and so on.
This liberality has enabled us to venture upon the expenses we
have lately undertaken, and our most cordial and grateful
thanks are fairly due to those who have assisted us. Where
so many have lent generous aid, it may seem perhaps invidious
to mention names, but I cannot refrain from paying some
tribute to our friend Mr. Blackburn, whom you all know.
(Applause.) By his timely liberality he has enabled us to
furnish these rooms in a much more comfortable and at¬
tractive way than we could have otherwise hoped to have
done.
Last, but not by any means least, we are indebted to our
Offices Committee. For months, I may say, they hunted for
rooms for us—hunted with a patience and perseverance which I
hope and think has been appreciated by the Council. At last
they came to us with these rooms, and we were not slow to re¬
cognise that although perhaps not all that we could wish, yet
that they were in many respects very suitable. After some
consideration, we decided upon taking them, and here we are!
I must now say a few words upon a somewhat painful sub¬
ject, but I will only touch upon it.
It seems good to a certain small section of Spiritualists to
evince towards us a somewhat unkindly feeling; to criticise our
acts, our prospects, our finances, with a severity which I might
almost call ungenerous. We have been accused of squander¬
ing our resources upon these offices, and upon our secretary.
Apart from the fact that these so-called extravagancies have
been to a great extent provided for by special donations, I
maintain that it has been an outlay necessary to our very ex¬
istence. Our critics at any rate should be the last to find fault
with us upon these grounds, for they were never weary of
declaring that our Association was existent merely upon paper.
There are, indeed, some people whom it is almost impossible
to please. Our critics appear to me wholly to misunderstand
our objects, our constitution, and our intentions, and speak
and write concerning us with a hostility which, coming from
one section of Spiritualists towards another, I confess I find it
hard to understand ; but there is an old saying, “ It takes two
to make a quarrel,” and I am sure I express the attitude of all
here when I say that we stand with the right hand of fellow¬
ship always stretched out, and without a particle of animosity
towards those who so strangely misinterpret the objects of this
Association. (Applause).
Turning from this unlovely subject, I may congratulate the
Association, with all my heart, on the kind feeling and good
fellowship with which all its members have hitherto worked
together. Not a sound of contention has yet been heard, and
any differences of opinion have been overcome by mutual con¬
cession. Long, I earnestly hope, will this be the case, for the
day that we begin to quarrel must our power for goo4 cease.
You will observe that we have already, through the kindness
of some of our members, collected a few books, which I hope
will form the nucleus of an extensive and valuable library. I
am sure you will all acknowledge the importance of getting our
book shelves well and wisely filled, and I would venture again
to urge those among you who have the power to assist us by
the loan of a few volumes of standard works.
I do not mean that they should be exclusively upon spiritual
subjects, for the literature of Spiritualism is at present very
limited, and is probably comprised in some sixty or seventy
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Mat 14, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
233
volumes. We must remember that a library is expected to
suit and supply all legitimate tastes.
You have all of you heard of the bazaar that it is proposed
to hold, and that we hope and expect from the proceeds
thereof to do a good deal in the way of furnishing this house;
for of course there is much that yet remains to be done.
However, it does not do to count our chickens before they are
hatched, and I call upon all who have the interests of our
Association at heart to lend us their willing co-operation to
make the bazaar what I trust it will be—a genuine success.
Ere I conclude, I would remedy an omission I have made,
and include in the vote of thanks that I shall propose the
name of our trusty ally, Mr. Harrison. If I am right, I believe
Mr. Harrison was among the first, if not the first, to propose
the establishment of an association, and from that hour to
this he has given us the benefit of his council and active
co-operation. I beg to move, therefore, ladies and gentlemen,
that—“ The thanks of this Association be cordially tendered to
the guarantors, to Mr. Blackburn, to the members of our Offices
Committee, and to Mr. W. H. Harrison.”
Mr. H. D. Jenoken seconded the vote of thanks, saying
that he quite endorsed the views of Mr. Martin Smith about
the Association, and of the work which Mr. Harrison had
done for the movement. He added that Mr. Harrison had all
along done that with the Spiritualist which others had done
in working for the Association, that is to say, he had regarded
the public interests of the cause itself, unbiassed by any
minor or unworthy motives. The Spiritualist was a really
scientific and well-managed paper, conducted upon upright
principles, so that its utterances carried weight; and he
believed that it would continue to gain more and more the
public confidence and appreciation it deserved.
The votes of thanks were then passed with acclamation.
Mr. Martin Smith then said—I have nothing more to say,
except to ask you all to join with me in invoking upon this
our home the blessing of our Father in heaven.
This house-warming, or inaugural meeting of members and
friends in the new home of the National Association was in
every respect a marked success, and the danger of overcrowd¬
ing was effectually prevented. The excellent quality of the
musical performances, sustained by the Misses Withall, Miss
Malvina Claxton, Miss Sexton, Mrs. E. Corner, and Mrs.
Arthur Eislingbury, attracted a large number of visitors into
the room set apart for the purpose, and the finest of the fine
arts was both well represented and well appreciated on this
occasion.
A fine set of spirit photographs of a large size, by Buguet,
was exhibited in the Reading-room. The sitters are Mrs.
Fay, the Comte de Bullet, and M. le Baron Du Potet. The
celebrated picture of the Comte de Bullet, with the double of
his sister living in America, was a special feature of interest.
Miss Houghton exhibited two of her spirit-drawings.
GOSWELL HALL SUNDAY SERVICES.
These Sunday evening services in London have been con¬
tinued by Dr. Sexton, and have attracted a considerable num¬
ber of the outside public. On the 2nd inst., Dr. Sexton de¬
livered an able discourse on “Science and Religion.’* He
commenced by enlarging at considerable length upon the
mysteries of nature, dwelling upon the great problems which
necessarily press themselves upon the attention of man, both
in regard to the external universe, his own individuality, and
the relationship that exists between the two. He described
the various branches of knowledge, pointed out the lines by
which they were separated from each other, and the point
where they overlapped. He then enlarged on the advantages
of science, and pointed out what he conceived to be its true
and legitimate functions. The predominance of law in the
physical universe was next dwelt upon, and the nature of law
and the extent of its domain accurately described. Dr.
Sexton enlarged at some length on the fact that it was im¬
possible to contemplate the phenomena of nature anywhere
without being driven irresistibly to the conclusion that the
principle of causation leads up to a first cause. Even Herbert
Spencer had been compelled to acknowledge this. The
scientific speculations of modern times were next discussed,
such as the origin of matter, the origination of living beings,
and the evolution of mind. Tyndall’s notion that the phe¬
nomena of the human mind, emotion, intellect, and will were
“ once latent in a fiery cloud” was severely dealt with. Dr.
Sexton then proceeded to discuss the limits of theology, de¬
scribing the concession made to science with regard to the
shape of the earth, the age of the world, the antiquity of man,
and other points. The province of religion was described at
some length, in which it was shown that science and theology
had each their respective domains, and need not intrench one
upon the other. The discourse was well received, and a gene¬
ral wish expressed that it should be published.
Last Sunday evening a discourse was delivered by the Rev.
F. R. Young, minister of the Free Christian Church, Swindon,
on the “Ascension of Christ; its significance and reality.”
This was an able lecture from Mr. Young’s standpoint, who
maintained the reality of the Ascension, holding it to be a
natural and necessary sequence of the resurrection.
On Sunday next Dr. Sexton will deliver a discourse entitled
“ An Impartial Review of the Revival Movement of Messrs,
Moody and Sankey.”
MR. COLEMAN ON PROFESSOR MAPES’S ADYOCACY
OF SPIRITUALISM.
Last Sunday night, Mr. Benjamin Coleman, who presided
at the usual weekly lecture at the Cavendish Rooms by Mrs.
Tappan, said—
Ladies and Gentlemen,—I will not pursue the usual routine
generally observed at these meetings by reading a chapter
from the Bible. Not, however, from any disrespect for that
ancient record, which, from my point of view, 1 hold in high
regard as a truthful narrative, and especially in those passages
which scepticism rejects, the working of the so-called miracles,
and which Christians erroneously believe were limited to the
Apostolic age, for they are occurring around us now, and I
have witnessed many of them. My mind has become by these
evidences satisfied that the two worlds—the visible and the
invisible, or the world of spirits—are very closely united, and
that the men and women who occupy the latter are ever busy
with mundane affairs, and that they, under the Almighty’s
influence, have power to work what are called miracles.
In corroboration of this belief, I point to the instance before
you. This delicately-framed woman is inspired by a band of
spirits—men of great learning who have lived on earth—to
speak on subjects the most abstruse (which she can never have
studied) with a power and eloquence rarely heard. This I
think miraculous, and proves that the gifts of the Spirit,
spoken of by St. Paul, are given to some in these latter days.
Mrs. Tappan’s discourse this evening will be given under
the control of Professor Mapes, a well-known chemist, and a
few words respecting our interviews may not be unacceptable
to you.
I met him on my visit to New York in 1861, introduced by
Judge Edmunds, who said, “ James Mapes is one of the most
enlightened men of this country,” and so I found him.
In the course of conversation he informed me that he
commenced his investigations in Spiritualism as a decided
sceptic, and after five years of constant examination he was
forced by overwhelming evidence to yield, and in the last con¬
versation I had with him he said—
“ If, after making every allowance for the incongruities, false
theories, fanaticism, and the common errors attributed to
Spiritualism, only ten per cent, of the whole should prove pure
and impregnable as I have found it, it is still as sound a
science as chemistry was at the beginning of this century,
which has thrown aside 90 per cent, of the teachings then
received as truth.”
In a conversation which Professor Mapes had at that time
with a friend to whom I introduced him, he startled my friend
with what he considered a very profound thought, pertaining
to the very subject of the discourse of this evening. I was
not present, and I do not know the nature of their conversa¬
tion, but it would be highly interesting if the spirit of James
Mapes should inspire this gifted lady to speak of that conver¬
sation, since it belongs, I am told, to “ Spiritual Chemistry,”
the subject of this evening’s discourse; and I therefore venture,
as I have been specially invited to preside on this occasion, to
express a hope that we may be gratified in that respect.
Mrs. Tappan then proceeded with her discourse.
Mb. Gledstanes is about to leave Paris, and to take up
his residence in Bordeaux, where he will remain permanently,
234
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 14, 1875.
PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
Last Saturday Mr. Firman, the medium now im¬
prisoned in Paris, was brought up handcuffed before
the judge for'examination, and was remanded until
yesterday, without being admitted to bail or allowed to
see any one.
M. Leymarie is still in prison. His case also came
before the Court yesterday, but we have not yet heard
the results. Mr. Grledstanes writes that this is a ter¬
rible state of things for these two men, because they
are perfectly innocent. The same amount of sympathy
is not felt for M. Buguet, as it is alleged that he has
confessed to have mixed up imposture with real
manifestations.
The clergy in Paris are angry with M. Leymarie for
having inserted in the Revue Spirite a clever answer
to the pastoral against Spiritualism issued by the
Bishop of Toulouse; in fact, the clergy would like to
annihilate both him and his journal if they could, and,
as they have great influence, the proceedings against M.
Leymarie are watched by Parisian Spiritualists with
some anxiety.
PRIVATE SEANCE.
NEW MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH THE MEDIUMSHIP OF MISS SHOWERS
—REMARKABLE TESTS—CABINET MANIFESTATIONS 1‘RODUCF.D
■WITH THE HANDS AND FEET OF THE MEDIUM IN SIGHT.
Last Monday night a private seance was held at the
residence of Mrs. Showers, 103, Seymour-street,
Bryanstone-square, London. Among the guests present
were Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Sir Charles Isham, Bart.,
Captain J. James, Miss Ayling, Mr. Wedgwood, Mrs.
Fitz-Gerald, Dr. George Sexton, the Rev. Frederick
Rowland Young, of Swindon, Mr. and Mrs. Rushton,
Mr. W. H. Harrison, and a well-known authoress.
The proceedings commenced with a dark seance, at
which musical instruments were floated about the
circle and played upon by the spirits, while both the
hands of Miss Showers were held.
The gas was then lit, and a low black curtain was
pinned across one corner of the room, to give partial
darkness in the angle behind it; light passed freely
over the top of this curtain. Miss Showers sat in the
recess thus formed in the corner of the room. The
spirits then bound her hands to the back of a chair in a
most secure manner, the knots being carefully examined
by Dr. Sexton. Afterwards materialised spirit hands
were frequently thrust over the top of the curtain, and
the bound hands of Miss Showers were exhibited but
an instant afterwards, when the screen was suddenly
removed by the servant who had been holding it up by
one corner.
Lastly, a low curtain was so suspended over Miss
Showers, that both her hands and her knees projected
through a large orifice cut in the lower part of it, so
that her hands and knees were in full sight of the spec¬
tators. Under these conditions the spirits tied a bow
knot in a piece of tape which had been placed round
her neck with the two ends hanging down in front of
her breast. Also, when under these conditions, a glass
of water was placed in her lap; the spirits raised it to
her lips, so that she drank the greater portion of it, her
hands and knees being in sight of the spectators all the
time.
Afterward? there was a sitting at which one of the
full forms appeared, as so often described in these
pages.
MRS. HARDY’S SEANCES.
The Banner of Light gives the following account of one of
the last seances given in Boston by Mrs. Hardy, the medium
who is now on her way to England:—
The light was at no time turned entirely out, but during the
entire seance all objects in the room were distinctly visible.
The arrangement of the table, the box over the aperture, and
the screen, were minutely examined before commencing,
during all the steps taken in preparation by Mr. Hardy.
The table was arranged at the end of the dining room which
is nearest the front of the house; around said table the guests
were placed in a small semicircle, Mrs. Hardy taking her posi¬
tion with her left hand close to the wall of the room, and our¬
self occupying the seat at her right, and holding one and
sometimes both of her hands, so that throughout the whole
sitting we were able to watch closely in order to perceive any
motion on her part. Suffice it to say that we were not able to
detect the slightest vibration of her person during the manifes¬
tations. On the side of the table opposite us sat Mr. Wether-
bee, Prof. Whipple being in the centre of the semicircle, at
equidistance from us, and the space between being filled by
the ladies.
The light being reduced, but still of sufficient power to
render every object clear to the sight, the manifestations
began, the hands shown at the aperture ranging in size from
that of a small child to an adult, and the array of white being
diversified by a red or Indian hand, and the gigantic fist of
“ Big Dick,” the African athlete. We touched these hands
repeatedly, and found them, though soft, to be quite cold, and
unlike in feeling to the ordinary human palm or fingers.
After a while the box over the aperture was removed, and a
simple piece of cloth was nailed over the space between the
leaves of the table, an opening being made temporarily for the
hands, so that they could be thrust upward in a vertical direc¬
tion. While the cloth was so arranged, a slate held by John
Wetherbee and ourself was thrust into the opening, when a
power beneath the table, which was unmistakable, seized said
slate and drew it forcibly from our grasp. The same slate
was presently returned to us, while our hands were inserted in
the dark space, and again wrested from us by some invisible
power, evidently not human. One of the party, desiring to
examine the space beneath the table, was allowed to pass
rapidly under the screen, but nothing save the handkerchief of
Mr. Wetherbee, which lay on the floor, it having been passed
through the opening to be knotted by the invisibles, and a
call-bell (which had been placed there before the commence¬
ment of the seance), could be found.
After the materialisation seance had been brought to a close,
with results highly satisfactory to the party in attendance,
the sitting was changed as to character, and the guests were
ranged around the table in a circle for the witnessing of the
“ slate-writing ” phenomenon. This order of manifestation
has been often described.
THE FIRMAN FIASCO IN PARIS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sib,—Your readers have the opportunity afforded them this
week of forming their own judgment about the Firman case,
by the publication of the proces verbal signed at Dr. Huguet’s,
on the one side, and the declarations of Mrs. and Mr. Firman
on the other. The question is complicated and difficult, and
no one can wonder that to all persons ignorant of the marvel¬
lous phenomena of “ materialisation ” it must seem a clear
case of imposture. And yet it may be, and, after careful
analysis of all the elements of the evidence, I believe that it
is, nothing more than one of false appearances. That the
materialisation of the dwarf Indian spirit under Firman’s
mediumship is a reality and truth is made certain by the tes¬
timony of four witnesses of such superior intelligence and
character as Mme. de Yeh, Mrs. Watkins (her mother), Mr.
Gledstanes, and Count de Bullet, who on four occasions subse¬
quent to the Huguet scene have seen the little Indian, sepa¬
rate and distinct from the medium, having seen him
on one occasion even rise in the air till his feather
head-dress touched the ceiling, which elicited from Mr.
Gledstanes the request to him to make a mark on the
ceiling. True, it may be supposed that there was im¬
posture at Dr. Huguet’s, though the phenomena were
genuine on the other occasions. But why so superfluous a
false personation with a difficult make-up, when the medium
had only to let the real Kibosh, or Frank, show for himself ?
And how could Firman within those few rapid moments, under
the grasp of the angry lady, have got rid of such articles as
THE SPIRITUALIST.
235
May 14, 1875.
a mask, gloves, and feather head-dress, without being arrested
in the act, and such fatal proofs triumphantly seized and de¬
tained ? One of the spectators (who has since regretted hav¬
ing been led with a levity repented of to sign the proces verbal)
describes the scene as having been one of great excitement,
amid outcries of anger, in which “every one saw what he
wanted to see,” meaning what he supposed. And the same
gentleman says that when they all rushed immediately up
with the light Firman’s face and hands were white. Frank
has- since said that he had no time to make the shawl invisible
before he vanished himself. The recess itself is not larger
than a closet. It is easily conceivable how the lady, in the
dark, may have grasped Firman and pulled him to the ground,
and how the then immediate disappearance of Frank, leaving
the shawl and piece of muslin dropped on the half-prostrate
medium, may have caused her to believe that she had realised
that which was her belief in advance, that the Firman in her
hands was the person who had worn the shawl, and falsely
personated the vanished dwarf. And on her saying so, how
could the spectators, most of them also prepossessed with the
same conviction, have failed to show that belief ?
It is a not immaterial point in the case that the declarations
of the Firmans were made and sent for publication to the
American Register before the descent of the police on his resi¬
dence and his arrest, which took place on Thursday. He had
invited a number of persons, besides myself, including three
journalists, to witness on Friday another seance which was to
be under test conditions, and at which the appearance of the
spirit and himself, distinct and separate while simultaneous,
was expected, as it had already four times been witnessed by
the four persons above referred to. And I know that he in¬
tended, on a subsequent occasion, to invite Dr. Huguet him¬
self to witness the same demonstration of his innocence of
the presumption, which I conclude by repeating that I believe
to be nothing more than a case of strongly apparent but really
delusive appearances against him.
He is now in the hands of a juge d'instruction, or examining
magistrate, to whom all Spiritualism is juggling on the one
side and dupery on the other. This process of what is termed
Vinstruction is secret, and not even his wife is allowed to see
him. His case is of course prejudiced by its coincidence with
that of the photographer Buguet, who has unquestionably
been long practising a system of abominable fraud, and in
whose place the police found a draped'mannikin figure and a
vast number of heads prepared to be employed with it.
(Nothing suspicious was found at Firman’s.) The key to his
case is simple. He is a real and powerful photographic
medium. Count Bullet has received through him the spirit
likenesses of some half-dozen members of his family, wholly
unknown to Buguet. He has been perfectly successful under
test conditions, with incredulous other photographers accom¬
panying him through all the stages of the process, and even
conducting it throughout themselves, with their own glasses.
Buguet was always willing that they should come with their
own instruments. But this honest practice could not bring
in money enough for his considerable needs. He could not
take more than half a dozen true spirit portraits a day, and
the operation was very exhausting. Often he could not do
anything. The auri sacra fames tempted him, in evil hoUr
for himself, to imagine a system of taking sham spirit-pictures
without the presence of a sitter, and with the mere presence
of a photographic portrait of the applicant. These never
failed, of course, and his correspondence is stated to have
extended even as far as China. Of course these were frauds,
and it was a matter of small consequence to him that the
deceived applicants could not recognise the supposed spirit-
faces which deigned to appear beside their cartes-de-visite. He
will undoubtedly have a sentence not more severe than he
unfortunately deserves. But there was no connection between
him and Firman, nor ought there to be between their cases.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, April 23rd, 1875.
THE PROCES VERBAL.
We, the undersigned, this 9th of April, 1875, declare that at
the time when the pretended medium, Mr. Firman, was show¬
ing, in Dr. Huguet’s room, a spirit that he calls the little
Indian, and this behind a curtain slightly open, Mdme. Huguet,
concealed in a small cupboard, hidden in the wall behind the
curtain where Mr. Firman appeared, suddenly threw herself
upon the pretended spirit, saying, “ I have you, Mr. Firman:
yon shall no longer deceive any one.” We all rushed with
lights in our hands, and we saw Mdme. Huguet holding
Firman down on his knees, while he was endeavouring to
pass to his wife the clothes by means of which he practised
his deception. One of us then took from him a part of this
apparel, which he was in the act of thrusting into his breast.
Such is the odious trickery which we all witnessed, and
which has been unveiled,'thanks to the energy of Madame
Huguet, who retains the apparel as material evidence {pieces a
conviction).
We should add that all the objects which have served in the
dark seances—notably the musical box, the piano, and tam¬
bourine—bear marks of the teeth and shoes of the medium
Firman. In attestation of which we have all signed the above.
Veron. L. Jacolliot.
Baillbul. Michel Rosen.
E.- Michaud. Dr. Huguet.
MR. AND MRS. FIRMAN’S REPLY.
I am told that a statement has been signed by six gentlemen
who were present at a seance given by my husband at Dr.
Huguet’s residence, Rue Basse des Ramparts, No. 64, to the
effect that they had detected and exposed him in an act of
imposture as a medium. According to this document, it
appears that Mme. Huguet was concealed in a cupboard on the
same side of the curtains as my husband was seated ; that she
jumped upon him as he was pretending to be the spirit, and
while keeping him upon his knees some of the company took
from him a part of the disguise he was endeavouring to pass
to me.
It is therefore, my duty to give my version of this affair,
which I now do, calling God to witness the truth of what I
proceed to say, to the best of my ability. The cabinet was a
small room off the drawing-room, from which it was separated
by an open doorway, screened by a thick and heavy curtain
meeting in the middle. It was thus in pitch darkness when
the curtain was drawn ; it contained a sofa, upon which my
husband sat or reclined. The company was seated round a
table in front of the curtain, at about a foot of distance from it
—I being one of them. I knew that my husband at such
times went into a state of trance, during which would take place
thephenomena (inconceivable to those who have had no experi¬
ence of such things) of a spirit gradually becoming materialised,
that is to say, assuming a tangible and visible body, and draping
itself in drapery; this drapery being usually either in whole
or part real, ordinary^ drapery, brought by the spirit and used
for that purpose, and afterwards carried away or made to
disappear when the spirit itself disappears. The spirit on
this occasion was the one which habitually shows at my .hus¬
band’s seances—a little dwarf Indian, having a head-dress of
feathers, a shawl, and some white drapery over his body. His
face, hands, and feet are very dark—not far from black. He
has given his name as Kibosh, but we have got into the way
of calling him Frank. After some time of silence and waiting,
Frank appeared at the opening of the curtain, which he partly
opened, and came forward to the edge of the table, about a
foot in front of the curtain. He remained there for some
minutes, talking and thrumming with his dark hands on the
table. The top of the table having had its cloth removed was
white, so that the dark hands were the more conspicuous.
One of the company had placed some things on the table—
a piece of sugar, some other sweetstuff, and a walnut. He
presently asked if those were for him, and took them, and
munched them, and cracked the walnut. There was light
enough to see him, with his head-dress and face, and black
hands placed upon the white table-top. While this was going
on, I suddenly heard a heavy sound in the cabinet as of some¬
thing falling to the ground. I at first fancied that a book¬
shelf had fallen on my husband, but I afterwards knew that
it was my husband himself who had been seized in the dark
as he reclined upon the sofa, and pulled on to the floor, coming
naturally upon his knees. The lady, no doubt, imagined that
in seizing him she had captured the pretended spirit, all the
more from her preconceived notion that the spirit and medium
must be one and the same individual. I saw Frank turn
quickly round and vanish into the cabinet. There was also
some loud cry or exclamation from Mme. Huguet. The noise
startled all. The table was pulled aside, the curtain opened,
and I rushed forward into the cabinet, where I saw my hus¬
band on the ground in a state of trance, while Mme. Huguet,
in a flannel dressing-gown, with Frank’s shawl in one hand, was
pounding my husband about the neck and shoulders with the
other. Both she andhewereaswhiteasasheet. All the room was
in a confusion of excited French talk. I raised my husband’s
head: he was in a kind of dazed condition. The next thing
I remember is being pushed out of the door into the corridor
by Mme. Huguet. My husband shortly after came out also,
when we went away. One of the company, Mr. Bailleul, came
236
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 14, 1875.
out with him, speaking to him in a soothing manner, telling
him, 1 believe, to go home and repose, saying he would come
and see him the next morning, which he did. We understood
him to advise us to confess that we had been practising decep¬
tion, which, having made none, we angrily declined to do.
I entirely deny having taken away any mask, or anything at
all: I had not even a pocket to my dress. I can easily believe
that Mme. Huguet, in the state of excitement in which she
was, and under her own conviction that my husband was
falsely personating a pretended materialisation, may have sup¬
posed that she took from him the shawl, which she in reality
snatched in the dark from Frank as he vanished, and that
the persons outside may have naturally assumed and believed
the same thing, especially when Mme. Huguet told them so,
believing it herself. When they came to see the scene—she
had in her rage pulled him down from the sofa to the ground,
holding in her hand the shawl and a piece of muslin—they
would naturally suppose that she was pulling them off or had
just pulled them off, and would say that they saw it done. If
she says that she took a mask from his face, she says what
she fancied and believed, because, as Frank’s face was nearly
black, she necessarily believed that the medium must have
worn a mask. I have never seen, and I know there has never
been, mask or gloves or anything of the kind in our rooms.
I conclude by asking the following questions: — 1st. How
could she have seen (as I am told she declares she did) in
that completely dark recess my husband leave the sofa,
get on his knees, and put on a mask, shawl, &c. ? The
only light in the room was a single candle screened behind
an arm-chair, and the thick curtains were drawn together in
order to make the cabinet completely dark, which is a neces¬
sary condition for these manifestations. 2nd. A mask would
have been the most conclusive evidence possible of the sup¬
posed imposture and false personification. What has become
of the fancied mask and head-dress of feathers? 3rd. And
what of the dark gloves which must have covered his hands,
which had been conspicuously visible to all as they thrummed
on the table, and took the sweet things and walnuts. When
it is remembered what is the process of drawing off gloves, is
it conceivable that my husband could have been allowed to go
away out of that room, not only with the supposed mask and
feathers, but with the supposed gloves ? Had these articles
been seen and retained, they would certainly have held most
conclusive proof of fraud having been practised, which I
solemnly swear before God is not the case.
Emma M. Firman.
I add to the above statement of my Wife my own solemn
denial, as God is my judge, of any imposture in the matter
referred to. My only recollection is that of having recovered
consciousness with my wife’s arm round my neck, and of
having struggled up to my feet with her aid. I ask the follow¬
ing questions :—1st. Why was I enticed into such a trap, under
the cover of professions of friendly sentiments and belief in
Spiritualism? 2nd. Why, if their minds were made up
beforehand that I was an impostor, and therefore necessarily
had all these articles—shawl, muslin, feather, head-dress, mask,
and gloves—concealed about my person, did they not search me
beforehand instead of putting me through such an odious and
violent farce afterwards ? I ^possess no such articles, and never
have done so. 3rd. What credit is due to the imagination of a
lady whose state of mind and predetermined belief is suf¬
ficiently apparent from her own version of the matter—or to
that of excited persons outside, who could only see me on the
ground (after the light was let in) under her hands and the
appearance of the moment! I conclude by adding that on
four subsequent occasions I have been distinctly seen by four
persons with the same little materialised Indian spirit by my
side, distinct from myself. Alfred Firman.
Mr. Morse in America.—If Mr. Morse comes back to
England this year it will only be for a week or two, and he
will quickly return to the United States with Mrs. Morse. A
few weeks ago he intended to return to this country in Octo¬
ber, but since then has engaged himself to speak in Boston
during that month; and he has engaged himself to speak in
Bangor, in the State of Maine, throughout October. The
local societies of Spiritualists in California are considering the
question of offering him engagements to speak in that country
during the month of January, 1876, having heard that his
services may probably be secured for the purpose at that time.
Mr. Morse’s address is—Care of A. J. Davis and Co., 24, East
Fourth-street, New York City, U.S. Should Mr. Morse not
return to England, Mrs. Morse will shortly depart for America
to join him.
aromspontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SUGGESTED TESTS.
Sir,—The letter 'of “ M. A. (Oxon),” in your last issue, ex¬
pressed exactly the thought engendered in my mind by recent
occurrences. It is, indeed, most painful to ever and anon read of
some new case of deception by one who is really mediumistic.
Explain it how we will, the ugly fact returns to shock our best
feelings. It is incalculable how great is the damage done to
the cause, and how immense is the retarding power of even
one such case to the progress of Spiritualism.
“ M. A.” asks if we are ever to have indisputable evidence of
the reality of materialisations, but I think that question is
quite satisfactorily answered in the affirmative already. We
have had many sure proofs that other than human forms do
appear at seances. The profound regret is, that in some in¬
stances they have been simulated.
With a view to making a slight contribution to the final
settlement of the question in point, it has occurred to me to
make a suggestion which I fail to see any objection to.
I lately read an account of a seance at which a gentleman
persisted in keeping hold of the hand of the materialised form
against its desire, and the result was that it dissolved in his
grasp. Now, he was wrong to do this without permission; but
one cannot fail to imagine how convincing must have been the
proof given to that man of the reality of the phenomenon he
was witnessing. Might not this test be freely offered to one,
or more, if possible, at each seance, when this particular class
of phenomena is produced. It is not necessary that the de¬
materialisation should take place out of the cabinet. All that
is necessary is, that the hand merely of the sitter be passed
into it while still holding that of the form, and the evidence
of a real dissolution will thus be conveyed as surely as if it
were seen in broad daylight. Let the greatest sceptic always
have the preference of such evidence, unless it can be given to
all present.
One of the commonest acts of such seances is to shake hands with
the materialisation, therefore there can be no objection to holding
the band; and it will appear to most hard to see why it should
not be permissible to hold it just at the moment when of all
others it would be entirely satisfactory in reference to the truth
of what was transpiring. I hesitate not to say that this is a
better test than those commonly employed, good as they are.
It is better than searching the cabinet, because that might be
skilfully made to aid a deception. It is better than even
seeing the medium and form together, under the obscure
circumstances that have usually been granted, and it is altogether
difficult to conjecture how it can be imitated; for nothing that
is material in the ordinary sense of the language could thus be
made to vanish into nothing in the hand, leaving not a wreck
behind. Our eyes may be deceived, but scarcely our sense of
touch here. G.
Edinburgh, May Cth.
SPIRITUALISM IN LIVERPOOL—OPEN AIR MEETINGS—
A SPIRITUALISTIC HOTEL.
Sir,—It may not be uninteresting to those who toil in the
cause of truth, and for the advancement of mankind, to have
from time to time reports, however brief, of what may be
occurring elsewhere than in London, in order “that the
gospel of immortality may be preached, and the glorious
truths of Spiritualism made known.” For this purpose, I
venture to give you a brief summary of news.
The Liverpool Psychological Society is still earnestly en¬
gaged in the investigation of the profound subject from which
the society derives its name. Every Sunday its platform is
occupied by able speakers, normal and trance, from different
parts of the country, including Mr. John Prust, Dr. Wm.
Hitchman, Mr. Williams (Bradford), Mrs. Butterfield, Mrs.
Johnston (trance medium of Manchester), Mr. John Lamont,
and Mrs. Scattergood. Mrs. Tappan was invited down, as also
was Dr. Sexton, by the society, so the subject of Spiritualism
is brought fairly before the public by this organisation. Indi¬
vidual efforts may be mentioned, such as the Tamworth-street
meetings, where Mrs. Ohlsen, one of our local mediums with
seeing, hearing, and good test gifts, gave public seances for
forty-seven weeks, every Wednesday night, without fee or
reward. Also, a series of public meetings was sustained in
the same place on Monday evenings during the whole of
last winter. The subjects of phrenology, mesmerism, and
May 14, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
237
Spiritualism were served up to, the public free of charge.
These meetings were sustained, and the expenses defrayed,
by a few friends, whom I take this opportunity of thanking,
as it is the only possible way I can do so.
A Psychopathic Institute, for the cure of disease, has been
opened: the effort has met with a fair degree of success. A
public circle is held there every Monday night, and two or
three private seances take place on the premises during the
week. Mr. Sadler, physical medium, of Wales, has been en¬
gaged, and will give a number of public seances, particulars of
which are announced in the local press. One of the oldest
Spiritualists in the town has opened a Temperance Hotel,
where friends can meet, drink a social cup of coffee or tea,
read the literature peculiar to the movement, and hold seances.
I hope it will not be long before other centres of the kind will
be opened in this large town : there is room enough for all.
Truly the harvest is great, and the labourers are few.
Another effort has been made, and that is, the delivery of
public addresses in the open air on the philosophy of Spirit¬
ualism, whether appertaining to things here or hereafter. I
have to thank Dr. Hitchman for 500 pamphlets for public
distribution, containing “ Ten reasons for believing in Spirit¬
ualism ” ; Mr. John Scott, of Belfast, for a parcel of tracts;
Mr. Jas. Burns, for a package of literature; and Mr. E. T.
Bennett, of our National Association, for a good parcel of
Crusades. I do not wish to beg, but I shall be happy to
receive parcels of literature on progressive and spiritual sub¬
jects from the friends, to sustain my out-door efforts. The
people gladly receive tracts, and, if no great good is done, at
least attention is called to the subject. In conclusion, permit
me to say I must do my Master’s work, and that every Sunday
morning, 11.30 a.m., at the Monument, London-road, Liver¬
pool, I shall speak that which is given me to speak, no man
daring to make me afraid; and those that dare come may
come, and drink of the water of life freely. Jas. Coates.
Liverpool, 11th May, 1875.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE FURNESS DISTRICT.
Hail, holy light—
Offspring of heaven, first-born.—Milton.
Sib,—If you can find space for the following, it may in¬
terest some of your readers, give others a little insight into
the progress of Spiritualism in the Furness district, and
encourage workers. During the few months I have been in
the Furness district the light of spirit communion has
increased.
What a beauteous thing is light breaking upon the vision
in the streaks of early dawn, making the flowers appear to
dance with joy as it kisses them! There is exquisite beauty
in this natural light, which language fails to convey and
painters fail to portray. Still there is a higher, holier light,
that light which giveth light to the soul. AH the world may
be bathed in the full noontide splendour of light, yet the soul
may be walking in darkness denser than Styx—no light!
Light, spiritual light, is in the world, though it may be but
dimly seen as yet. Its coruscations are gleaming with brighter
effulgence.
There is restlessness in many minds in the Furness district.
Commencing with the town of Barrow, I find there are a num¬
ber of lights shining there, although at times they become
almost obscured. The light gleaming among the brightest at
the present time is in the residence of our old and tried friend
Mr. Walmsley, whence it radiates into the darkness, and the
scoffer points to it in ridicule. Still the light is shining, and
the darkness fails to put it out.
Not far away we observe the glimmer of another light, which
some earnest ones are striving to increase in power. Travelling
on again, a bright ray flashes from another long-tried friend—
Mr. Thornton—piercing the darkness and dividing the gloom.
Friend Medcalfe, ever ready and willing to do his best, resides
beneath the same roof.
There is another light near by, which burns steadily; but its
rays are shut out from the public gaze, and you have to be taken
to it in order to see its beauty, In an unseen and silent manner
it is reflected abroad by those illuminated by its rays; for the
quaint speech and good advice of the old parish clerk cannot
be hid. There are other lights burning in the town, helping
to dispel the darkness.
I have gazed upon a lonely star shedding its beams through
a rift in the rolling clouds, brilliant in its light, and aver
ready at all times to shed its mild radiance upon the earth.
So the Grammar School, conducted by P. R. Harrison, B.A., at
Dalton stands amid the surrounding gloom, a clear, conspicuous
light, not to be mistaken: here the young and youthful may
behold the light, and dwell beneath its beauty.
Chatterton’s medium resides here,
Almost entirely surrounded by hills lies the market town of
Ulverstone, its narrow streets ^proclaiming its origin. Some
years ago two meteors (Herne and Williams) travelled from
London, and were seen at this place, leaving a remembrance
which created a longing for a permanant star.
There are several lights shining there now, and this may
be said to be the place which Mr. Tom Eaves illuminates with
his presence. The spirit of G. Holt appears there, clad with
garments which seem to be spun from the moonbeams. There
is much to encourage friends to go forward and to persevere
against difficulties, seeing that the spiritual lamp needs con¬
stant feeding, or its light must of necessity go out. Truth is
worthy of our search: by it the light is increased and
brightened.
Let Truth be followed wheresoe’er it lead,
For falsehood cannot grow where Truth’s the seed.
T. Hickling.
310, Scotland-road, Liverpool.
THE ALLEGED “FIRMAN EXPOSURE” IN PARIS.
Sib,—It wiH be quite as well that no person should arrive
at a hasty conclusion as to Firman’s culpability. After many
seances with him, of a purely experimental and semi-educa¬
tional kind, he started for himself, and consulted neither me
nor his friends any longer. I warned him of the counter
influence of the Jesuits, and had reason to predict not only
the danger to him but to all experimentalists in Paris. The
trap had been long since set. Firman did not heed me and
other advisers, and has fallen imprisoned at Mazas, drawing
down several other very exceUent men. M. Leymarie, who
has already appeared in irons as a felon, is a most charitable
and God-fearing man. As editor of the Revue Spirite, he
examined the subject through M. Buguet and Firman, for
the information of his journal and the “ Society Anonyme des
Spirites.” M. Leymarie had examined the effects through
Firman under test conditions. It was only after he had done
so that he gave in his adhesion to the genuineness of the
manifestations, and exhibited him at the Spiritual Institution
in Paris. After this Firman launched himself in somewhat
luxurious style, consulting his old friends no more. Large
gains to him and a certain public reputation attracted the
attention of the priests, the result being as foreseen.
In regard to such a subject he may stand no chance in a
French court of law : nothing in his favour, in all probability,
will be admitted. The eminent and learned Baron Potet gave
his mesmeric seances at the Salle de Conference under great
oppression, and was refused permission to lecture on Spirit¬
ualism.
I have personally the greatest confidence in Firman. A
nephew of mine, in a stranger’s house where Firman was in¬
vited, saw a little hoy, half naked, come before the people
assembled. He distinctly and indignantly states that it was
not Firman, as described, creeping on his knees, and dressed
up to misrepresent. At the seance where the fiasco took place,
they found a muslin robe, or part of one, similar to John
King’s, but the other part of the garb, the crown and feathers,
together with other apparel, aUeged to have been seen by the
watchers, were never found.
Firman, it appears, was not arrested immediately, and no
doubt he could have left the city had he wished, or had he
stood self-convicted of fraud. He knew the probable con¬
sequences. I submit it is a great point in his favour that he
remained and continued giving seances. At one or more of
them Mr. Gledstanes maintains that the figure and Firman
were plainly seen together, and at the same time. Had time
and fair attention been given, the probable consequences
might have been modified to the effect of creating a certain
amount of fair sensation and wonder, besides an acquittal.
It appears that where Jesuitism is rife it is positively unsafe
to examine the subject. I have myself been twice in extreme
danger. The organiser of all this could be pointed out. I
warned them against him; he happened to be present at the
seance.
For some time the whole subject must drop in Paris so far
as experiment goes on the part of foreigners. Perhaps good
may come out of this incident, but it is hard to say what may
occur in a country overridden by priestcraft, and which, while
it shelters the Ultramontanes driven from enlightened Ger¬
many, and whilst it gives to rascally female somnambulists,
wbo swarm as nomads at every fair, full licence to cheat and
impose upon poor ignorant people, can arrest as felons those
238
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 14, 1875.
hitherto reputed honest, and only offend because they are
endeavouring to illustrate that which hitherto the French
have had no capacity to understand. S. Chinnery.
London, 10th May, 1875.
Sir,—I see from The Spiritualist of this week that persecu¬
tion of spiritual mediums has already begun in France. These
things were all foreshadowed, as you are aware, in the speeches
at the Liverpool National Conference, which speeches gave rise
more than anything else to the establishing of the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists.” It is to be hoped that
the Council will give every aid to defend poor mediums who
probably cannot defend themselves against a merciless and
bigoted public. They ought to see that proper legal support
is secured, and every other possible aid should be afforded.
Our National Association extends its branches to all countries,
and in Paris, so close to London, nothing should be wanting on
our part to defend the right. It will be a satisfaction to all
true-hearted Spiritualists to know that the National Associa¬
tion will do good work for the alleviation of the sufferers for
Spiritualism. “ These are but the beginning of sorrows.” We
may expect sore persecution from the churches, and from the
world. But, by binding ourselves together in sympathy and
love, and with an Association like the British National, with
all its mind and strength, we have nothing to fear so long as
it is guided by true patriotism, carried out with zeal and
earnestness for the suffering, and for all. J. Chapman.
12, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
DUPLICATION' OP POEM.
Sir,—In these days of wonder-working, when every one has
his own theory to account for novel phenomena, I should like
to draw attention to some facts that I have lately observed,
which tend to show that the human double often plays a pro¬
minent part in spiritual manifestations.
A few days ago, in a dark circle here in Paris, where hands
were joined round a table, a gentleman present told me after¬
wards that his neighbour, Mrs. Fay, whose hand he was hold¬
ing, in the coolest manner possible, without in the least trying
to conceal what she was doing, put her other hand and arm
round his neck. He was so sure of what he asserted (the arm
being covered with the same stuff as her dress) that he con¬
sidered it an invitation for him to do the same to her. At the
same seance, notwithstanding that there were several persons
between that young lady and myself, I felt a hand with rings
on its fingers of the same size and temperature as hers, which,
upon my endeavouring to retain, was forcibly pulled out of my
grasp. Now, as it is impossible for any one who has the
pleasure of knowing Mrs. Fay to doubt that she was sitting
quietly in her seat, in happy unconsciousness of what her extra
hands were doing in so compromising a manner, may we not
conclude that it was her double operating ?
She sits for her photograph, and her duplicate as well as
herself appears upon the plate. She tells me that at times
she sees a third arm resting upon her lap.
I remember some two years ago, at a dark seance, a friend
of mine was taken right off his legs by a pair of strong arms.
I was touched in the face by one of his feet. He was convinced
that the medium herself had lifted him up, and when I sug¬
gested to him that it might have been done by a spirit, as they
had arms, he replied— “ Yes; but they have not silk dresses
and gold brooches.” Now, in the light of present knowledge,
this was an unwarrantable assumption on his part; and this
medium had the credit of committing an act of gross trickery.
In the cabinet seance of Maskelyne and Cook, a gentleman
on one occasion who entered the cabinet with them stated to
the audience that he had their four hands in charge all the
time, for his two feet were placed on their outside hands. So
they did not move, and yet he was touched by hands. I saw
similar ones to those of the conjurors thrust out of the aper¬
ture, and on the fingers there were rings exactly like those
worn by those gentlemen. The trick is explained if we have
discovered that they can get additional arms projected from
their bodies. Mr. Maskelyne invites any one to say how his
tricks are done. Whether my solution be the right one or not,
he is welcome to it..
As, however, the manifestations with such mediums as the
Eddys cannot be explained by the “ double” theory, it would be
interesting to know how Serjeant Cox accounts for the objec¬
tive appearance of recognised departed friends. *
J. H. Glepstanes.
Paris, April 23rd, 1875,
THE CASE OF ME. AND MES. COLES.
Sir,—I have just come from visiting Mr. and Mrs. Coles.
The small sum I was able to give them through the kindness
of a few friends was soon more than exhausted, and they are
literally at death’s door from starvation. Whatever error
they may have committed in coming to England with in¬
sufficient means, in the hope of finding work to do for Spirit¬
ualism, I cannot but think we should be greatly neglecting our
duty to let them perish for want of the common necessaries of
life.
If a little fund could be raised to pay their debts (they owe
a few weeks’ rent, and have been forced to pawn almost all
they possess), and some employment could be found for Mr.
Coles, either as an assistant in a shop or warehouse, or a light
porter, they might be able to maintain themselves creditably;
but at present their state of health, from sheer destitution,
renders them unfit for any kind of remunerative labour.
I sincerely trust that this appeal to assist our suffering
brethren may not be made in vain. Emily Kislingbury.
38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
THE EDUCATION OF THE CHILDEEN OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—Having failed up to this moment in finding effective
sympathisers with my plan for establishing a college for chil¬
dren of Spiritualists, may I take advantage of your valuable
paper to recommend the Grammar School at Dalton-in-Fur-
ness. Mr. Percy Ross Harrison, B.A., the head-master, is a
Spiritualist, and the pupils or boarders reside at Mr. Harri¬
son’s house, and receive a liberal treatment and education I
think his establishment is highly fit for children of Spiritual¬
ists. His terms are forty guineas per annum.
J. N. T. Mabtheze.
20, Palmeira-square, Brighton.
SPIRITUALISM IN' BIRMINGHAM.
Sir,—Some year and a half ago the subject of Spiritualism
was brought before large audiences in the Athemeum Hall in
this town, by Mr. John Collier, who is now in the United
States. A spirit of inquiry was awakened : the people wanted
to witness some of the phenomena which had been so much
spoken of by Mr. Collier and others. They were told to form
circles for investigation in their own homes, with their fami¬
lies , and this advice has been acted upon to a large extent
throughout the town, so that at this day many private circles
are held in various homes, but, Nicodemean-like, the members
of them dread publicity, so that little can be learned of their
success.
The public meeting room of the Birmingham Spiritualists
was given up some five months since, and at the present time
we are a disorganised body in this town, lacking faith in and
harmonious feeling towards each other, the large debt being
the principal cause. That has been cleared off, excepting a
balance of six or seven pounds, which will shortly be subscribed
by friends of the cause. Mrs. Groom, although not a public
medium, has done much to help to clear off the debt, without fee
or reward for her labours. Prior to the closing of our institute,
a person of the name of “Reddalls” presented himself for
admission to the circle, Mrs. Groom being the medium. The
superintendent, Mr. Franklin, refused to admit ibim, stating
the reason why, it being generally believed that he did not
come with good intentions. What was the consequence ? A
few weeks afterwards this same person Reddalls, along with
his friend Russell, got up sham seances to deceive Spiritualists.
To their shame, be it said, some Spiritualists flocked to see the
wonderful phenomena produced by the ” Infidel mediums ”
as they were called, and actually wrote to the press of this
town relating some of the astonishing things they had seen and
heard ? This same Mr. Reddalls has had the audacity to write
to Mr. Crookes, sending that gentleman a challenge that he
would produce all the phenomena Mrs. Fay did, and under the
same conditions; but doubtless Mr. Crookes has treated such
a person as he deserves. Instead of Reddalls causing an
influx to the ranks of secularists, his acts have had quite a
contrary effect, for numbers of secularists are now deep
investigators of Spiritualism. One of their number a Mr.
Mahoney, has taken his stand as a Spiritualist, and has
delivered two public lectures upon the subject to crowded
audiences in the Public Hall in Smith-street, St. George’s,
ably supported by Mr. R. Harper and others. Mr. Mahoney
is a young man of good intelligence, a good speaker,
and he appears to be thoroughly in earnest upon the
subject of Spiritualism, He has secured the co-operation of
THE SPIRITUALIST.
239
May 14, 1875.
six or seven others, and they are endeavouring to secure a hal
to carry out their mission of bringing Spiritualism before the
masses on Sunday mornings, afternoons, and evenings. Mr.
Harper is engaged for Sunday afternoons for some time to
come in the neighbouring town of Walsall; Mrs. Fay is in
Birmingham. From an eye-witness I learn the phenomena
are considered most astounding, and the press is perplexed.
I understand several private seances are being arranged for,
so that Spiritualism in the town of Birmingham was never so
eagerly sought after as at the present day. In addition, I
learn that many persons have given in their names to attend
Dr. Monck’s light seances. Dr. Monck’s visit has been long
promised, but deferred from time to time. X.
Birmingham, May 10th.
EBITA.BKABLE SPIRITUAL SEANCES IN EDINBURGH.
Sib,—Edinburgh has been visited by Dr. Monck, whose
presence in this city was for the purpose of explaining to in¬
quirers the truths of Spiritualism. Some went and came
away astonished, others took their departure convinced.
Amongst the latter was a son of the Church, and one who had
written matter hostile to Spiritualism.
The circle with which the writer has been associated for
about two years has given much patient investigation to
matters psychological. In our seances we have elicited many
curious freakish movements in inanimate matter, which were
far from satisfying, and thus our friend Dr. Monck found us,
and having by him been afforded every reasonable means of
testing his mediumship, it gives us much pleasure to bear
witness that he most willingly submitted to every test we
could suggest, such as binding him hand and foot to the chair
on which he sat, both with ropes and pocket-handkerchiefs.
Phenomena were forthcoming in whatever condition he was,
such as movements of bodies in the air, and the lifting chairs
upon tables, and laying them down as gently as if they were
feathers. - Dr. Monck opens his seances with a few simple and
reasonable conditions, objecting to be much interrogated; he
at the same time freely answers any questions which we might
have occasion to put to him. One could see in his method of
conducting the seances that he was fully impressed with the
reality of the phenomena, and earnest in his work, at the
same time heedless of hostile opinion and criticism, being
content to leave Spiritualism to be accepted or otherwise on
its own merits. He made no attempt to make a single proselyte,
or to use language approaching the ambiguous. Our first seance
was to us startling; raps distinct and continuous were heard
on the table ; the name of a spirit known only to one of the
sitters was given and recognised as one who had frequently
manifested at a private circle. Dr. Monck placing his hands
on one of the sitters, the raps became very powerful, ceasing
whenever he removed his hand. Baps were also heard as if
between the carpet and fioor, the medium standing the while,
manipulating the head of a member of the circle who had
become entranced.
While the medium was thus employed raps still continued on
the table. Every one present was allowed to examine and
place their heads on the floor and table while the raps were
being produced. All the raps differed much in sound, some
being like tapping with a finger or with a finger-nail, others
something akin to the postman’s knock, all of which obliged
us to admit some outside power, if not intelligence. One very
singular phenomenon was witnessed by most of us, viz., all
the hands of the sitters became luminous, as if phosphor¬
escent. This light was particularly bright on the hands of
the gentleman who became entranced, who in the meantime
had suddenly started up and changed seats with another, to
get beside the medium. When he came to himself, his first
question was, “ How did I come to be seated here ? ” remark¬
ing, at the same time, that 4 4 he felt a strange weight on his
head.” His right hand trembled violently, and for a time
felt benumbed and incapable of voluntary movement.
Dr. Monck saw a luminous hand holding a brush, with
which it touched one of the sitters: the explanation attached
thereto was, that the manifestation was from a relative of the
person touched, recently deceased, who was an artist. Dr.
Monck is occasionally controlled by a spirit called 44 Samuel,”
who speaks in gentle tones, and inculcates many good lessons,
incorporated with some advice for the guidance of investi¬
gators. He it is under whose directions the spirit hands are
shown while the medium is entranced: these, shining phos-
phorescently, appear in various parts of the room. We
would here advise sitters with Dr. Monck to speak to Samuel
as if they had confidence in him, and they will most likely
obtain many wonderful manifestations, which will never be
forthcoming if they are inclined to suspect before proving.
One of our circle was advised by Samuel that he would
become an impressional speaker, and, further, put out some
hints for his guidance. The burden of this prophecy is of
course in embryo, but it must soon show itself, as the subject
of it is a keen investigator, with a mind rid of churchly
ghostism. Then we had levitations, the medium being found
sitting lightly on the heads of some, and on the shoulders of
others; and again, from his normal size he would rise to a
height of from seven to ten feet, his soles the while being
held on the floor.* Indeed, all the manifestations were mar¬
vellous, and we shall be glad to hold out a right good welcome
when he again visits Edinburgh. Violet Light Cibcle,
Edinburgh, May 10, 1875.
MR. DALE OWEN ON THE HOLMES’S SEANCES.
In The Banner of Light, of May 1st, Mr. Robert Dale
Owen sums up all the evidence for and against the Holmes’s
manifestations in Philadelphia, and comes to the following
conclusions:—
441. That the Holmeses undoubtedly have, under certain con¬
ditions, considerable powers of materialisation. 2. That they
have dishonestly supplemented these powers to a greater or
less extent. As regards what I have witnessed, through their
mediumship, I do not undertake to draw the line between the
genuine and the spurious.”
Reception at Mrs. Gregory’s—On Wednesday night
last week Mrs. Makdougall Gregory gave a reception to
Spiritualistic and other friends, at 27, Green-street, Grosvenor-
square, London, W. Among the guests present were Sir
George and Lady Scott Douglas, of Springwood-park ; Lady
Mitford, Mr. Eyre, Hon. Mrs. Brown, Mr. and Mrs. Hoffman,
the Bev. Maurice Davies, the Rev. W. Stainton Moses, the
Bev. Cosmo Gordon, the Rev. Mr. Fisher, the Rev. Mr.
Mitchell, Mrs. Cosmo Gordon, Mr. Gordon, jun., Miss Mitchell,
Mr.'Hamilton, jun., and Miss Hamilton, of Sundrum; Mrs.
Schletter, the Miss Schletters, Mr. Bennet, Mrs. Paul, Captain
J. James, Miss Lottie Fowler, Mrs. Showers, Miss Showers,
General Brewster, Miss Stone, Mr. Howard, Mr. George
Crawfurd, of Aucbinames; Miss Katherine Poyntz, Mrs.
Maurice Davies, Mr. Fuller, Mr. and Miss Percival, Mrs.
Strong, Mr. Strong, jun., the Misses Strong, Mrs. Ramsay, Miss
Ramsay, and Mr. W. H. Harrison. In the course of the
evening Miss Katherine Poyntz sang with her usual pathos
’ Tis but a Dream, and another charming little ballad.
Mrs. Fay in Birmingham.—The Birmingham News says
that last Saturday Mrs. Annie E. Fay began to give public
seances in the drawing-room of St. James’s Hall, Snow-hill, Bir¬
mingham. After the ordinary manifestations had been obtained,
the following incident took place:—44 Having been privately
searched by a lady from the audience, Mrs. Fay again entered
the cabinet, and had her wrists bound to two iron hoops
on the stool on which she sat. Mr. Fay dropped the curtain
and said,4 We don’t know what we may receive as a manifes¬
tation, but we have had wonderful results in the past, and we
hope that such may be the case to-night. The whole beauty
of the - experiment consists in anything being done while
Mrs. Fay is fastened, as you have seen, in a perfectly helpless
condition. In a short time a ghostly figure, draped in white,
pushed the curtain aside, stepped from the cabinet, talked
slowly along the front of the platform, and then re-entered
the cabinet. Some time elapsed, however, before the cur¬
tain was removed, showing Mrs. Fay still bound to the stool,
as at first. Mrs. Ermine Vassar next took her place in the
cabinet, and, while tied as Mrs. Fay had been, a lady’s jacket
was first put on and subsequently taken off her, both experi¬
ments occupying only a very few moments. A dark seance
followed, about a dozen ladies and gentlemen from the au¬
dience sitting in a circle on the platform with Mrs. Fay in the
centre. While Mrs. Fay clapped her hands and the sitters
had theirs joined, the usual manifestations occurred: musical
instruments floated about, several of the sitters being touched
by hands. With this the entertainment—which was certainly
of an extraordinary character, and which called forth frequent
applause from the audience—was brought to a close. Similar
entertainments will be given each evening, as well as every
Wednesday and Saturday afternoons at three.”
* This sentence describes the most important’manifestatlon in the whole
letter; it is a manifestation which ought to be minutely described, with the
names and addresses of all the witnesses appended, rather than casually
stated in an anonymous letter.—Ed.
May 14, 1875.
240 THE SPIRITUALIST.
iftebteto.
Out of the Body: A Scriptural Inquiry. By the Rey.
J. S. Pollock, M.A., Incumbent of St. Alban’s, Bir¬
mingham. Rivingtons : London, Oxford, and Cam¬
bridge.
This is a book that shows the progress Spiritualism is
making in the ranks of the clergy. It is a good book
to put into the hands of Church people or timid folk
who shrink from investigating matters without clerical
leadership. The author is a bold man, and though
belonging to the Ritualist party, thinks broadly, and
speaks of Spiritualism openly and fairly. “I write,”
says he, “in the interests of superstition, with the
determination to promote its revival, as the best means
of enlightening our ignorant century.” Again—“ The
living help the departed, and the departed help the
living; but the departed are not departed, the dead are
not dead; they come to us, and within certain limits
can communicate with us. .Who can tell how often
the departed are able and willing to manifest their
presence to those who invite them ? My feeling is not so-
much in favour of Spiritualism as against its unrighteous
opponents.” But the following chapter headings will
suggest the author’s line of argumentDream Life—
Spirit Groups—The Departure—The Spirit World—
Limits of Communication—Spiritual Manifestations.
Last week we stated, in error, that Mr. Crookes had
recently attended one of Messrs. Bastian and Taylor’s seances.
It was Mrs. Crookes who was present.
The letter from Mr. Coates, of Liverpool, published in
another column, deserves attention, for he has started open-
air speaking to disseminate a knowledge of Spiritualism in
that town, and asks for tracts and leaflets on the subject to
distribute gratuitously.
Disgraceful Treatment of a Medium. —The following
account of the treatment received by a real or alleged medium
is from the Westmoreland Gazette of last Saturday:—“The
second of a series of three addresses on ‘ The Philosophy of
the Mind as connected with Matter ’ was delivered in the trance
state at Preston, on Thursday night, by a medium, through
whom the spirit of Mungo Park, the celebrated African ex¬
plorer, was announced to be speaking. At the first lecture
two or three doctors were present, desirous of testing the
medium, but this was refused them till the second lecture.
The room was consequently crowded to excess, and the greatest
interest was evinced in the proceedings. At the outset the me¬
dium denounced in strong language the despotic power doctors
assumed, and the burden of his address was a refutation of
the opinions entertained by them on the subject in hand.
During the address one of the doctors applied a sort of
strong- smelling-salts to the nose of the medium, and
the effect was almost instantaneous. The medium came
out of his trance, and stared vacantly around, amidst
the jeers . and laughter of the audience, but again
resuming the trance state, he continued his address,
during which he was frequently pricked in the legs with pins,
and gave unmistakable signs of pain, though it had been
stated that whilst in the trance state he was ‘ perfectly uncon¬
scious and insensible.’ At the close of the address a number
of questions were put to him whilst still under control, and so
unsatisfactorily were they answered that the indignation of
the audience was roused to a very high pitch. The medium
was greeted with a volley of hisses, was surrounded, and had
finally to make good his escape under the escort of a number
of strong men. Forms and chairs were broken, and a general
confusion ensued. One gentleman mounted a chair, and sug¬
gested that they should prosecute the medium for obtaining
money by false pretences ; another thought a milder method
would be for any one who wished to ask for their money back on
leaving the room. Another scuffle took place, the money-
taker was seized upon, and narrowly escaped having violent
hands put upon him. The gas was suddenly put out, and the
irritated assembly left the room in the greatest disorder.”
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A BAZAAR
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL OF THE
CO-OPERATIVE INSTITUTE,
55, Castle-street East, Oxford-street, on Wednesday, Thursday, and
Friday, the 26th, 27th, and 28th of May.
Open from 12 until 9 p.m. each day.
^ ALSO
AN EXHIBITION OF SPIRITUAL WORKS OF ART AND
CURIOSITIES,
Kindly lent by their Owners.
A number of Spiritual Paintings, Drawing1, Photographs, and objects of
interest will be on Sale.
The Articles in the Bazaar will be marked at reasonable, not at
extravagant, prices.
Music at intervals. Refreshments at moderate charges.
Admission:—On Wednesday and Thursday, One Shilling; on Friday
Sixpence. The money returnable to purchasers. Children, half-price.
MRS. TAPPAN’S LECTURES,
ON SUNDAY EVENINGS AT 7 p.m.,
AT TER CAVENDISH ROOMS, MORTIMERrSTREET, TV.
THIRD AND FINAL COURSE OF SIX'^LECTURES.
May 2.—1. “Further Experiences in Spirit Life,” by the late Judge
Edmonds. May 9.—2. “ Spiritual Chemistry,” by the late Professor
Mapes. May 16.—3. “ Moral and Spiritual Healing,” by the late Dr.
Rush. May 23.—4. “ Experiences in Spirit Life, and in Communicating
with Mortals, by the late Adin Augustus Ballon. May 30.—5. “ The
Harmony and Divinity of all Religions," by the late Theodore Parker.
June 6.—6. “The Spiritual Cosmos,” by the Whole Band of Twelve
Guides.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size. 3s.; small size, Is.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEOROE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, <bc
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by Smart and Allen, London House-yard, Paternoster-row, E.C.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2id. Published on
the 1st of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine-
street, London.
In two Volumes, with Portrait of the Author. Published at 21s.
THE COMING MAN,
By the late Rev. James E. Smith.
By the kindness of a friend we are enabled to offer the readers of The
Spiritualist a few copies of this remarkable work at half price, namely,
10s. 6d.
For many years Mr. Smith was Editor of the Family Herald, and in its
columns rendered inestimable service as a liberal theologian and philoso¬
pher. He was one of the first to recognise the importance of mesmerism,
clairvoyance, and Spiritualism, and was the chief contributor to the
Spiritual Herald—the precursor of other world literature in this country.
In the Coming Man are discussed with singular sympathy and intelli¬
gence, peculiar forms of religion, socialism and spiritualism prevalent
between 1830 and 1848, and of which little is known in the present genera¬
tion.
The volumes will he sent to any address on application, with a Post
Office Order for 10s. 6d., to Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s
Church-yard, E.C.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cath^drale, Lifege
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fondCs par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
May 14, 1875.
THE SPIHITtJALiST.
iu
'ISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Yernon-place,
Bloomsbury-squaro, W.O.,
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
'RS.WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At ’ home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended,
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
KOBERT HARPER is now sufficiently free from busi¬
ness engagements to undertake LECTURING and HEALING.—
R. H. has been a close student under many eminent professors in the great
Spiritual University for 14 years. He is willing to communicate what he
has thus acquired, by Lecturing upon the Higher Branches of the Spiritual
Science, to any who may desire his services. The Terms will be made
suitable to the poorest Societies, and may be learnt on application. Address
Soho-hill, Birmingham.
MR. W. -G-. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-busb,
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURAT I YE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
'R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER, |
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon [as engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
kR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as aboye. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been henefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MRS. OLI.YE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily} from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
M. PARSES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
• Sittings a la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gay.aes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
WANTED TO PURCHASE.—A complete Set of bound
volumes of the Spiritual Magazine. Please apply, stating price
and condition of volumes, to X, care of E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.C.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all hooks if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale, *
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (.Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Barkfield, Didshury, near Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Liiian-villa, Holder’s-hiU, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwiek-sqnare, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.O
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R , Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutchesoh-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, Esq., 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Cook, Keningale, B. A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road.. Blackheath, 8.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice.D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., Wes* Kensington-pk., W
Dawe, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwieh.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Liiian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester,
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixtou S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Longhton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper,.Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, SW.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, "W.
James, Capt. J , Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M..I.G.E., Junior United Service Club, SW.
King, George, F.S.S., 40,Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
I Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
| Nosworthy, Mrs.F. A., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jnn., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A-,M.D., LL.D., &c.,17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, TJpton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G; N. Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Vergailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c.,25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Fall Mall
S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, SW.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislinghury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Hon. or Corresponding Members. ’
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Yon Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Yay, Gonohitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chfevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J.Tyerman,Editor [Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs fCora L. Y. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell
street, Melbourne, Yictoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Yeh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris,
Gr. 0. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria,
Dr. G. L. Ditson, Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town Africa,
MAY 14, 1875,
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.Gr.S., Gh Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B,. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles E. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.E.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.'C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., O.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Eoberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken,Esq., Barrister-at-law; J.H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor ; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“1. That sounds of a very varied.character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, .and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “ Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations aro bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
“THE SPIRITUAL IS T” NEWSPAPER :
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PEIOE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers Oh the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.B.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Bobert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes.
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Islam, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.) ; Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-. Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jeccken, M.E.I., Barris-
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smvma); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Bichardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ?
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
or, SPIRITUALISM
London.—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC INSTI¬
TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. Coates, Principals.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman,
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
WBITING- By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forthalso the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masseg of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. £9 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4^d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
TO SPIBITUALISTS, BOOKSELLEBS AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
© SELLEE, STAT10NEB. AND PUBLISHEE, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
London. Agencies accepted for any Publication,
Established 1842.
NOBTHEEN DEPOT FOB THE SALE OF SPIBITUAL LITEEATUBE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Beport at the reduced
price, 7s. 61. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BABKAS),
N e wcastle-on-Tyne.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London E.C,
