AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[EEGISTEEED POE TEANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
No. 133.—(Vol. VI.—No. 11.) LONDON: MARCH 12} 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
(Contents.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATIO
SPIRITUALISTS.
N
OF
Evoking the Spirit of a Sleeping Person. By Prince Emile de Sayn-
Wittgenstein  ... ... ’   ... 121
The National Association of Spiritualises:—Meeting of the Council—
Allan Kardec’s Works—Mr. Morse in America—New Members—
The Holmeses' Imbroglio—Beportof Council Meetings—Finance—
Bye-laws—Appointment of Secretary—The Use of the Booms of
the Association—Furnishing the Public Booms in the New Offices
—The Expenses of the Secretaryship—The Publication of Spiritual
Literature—Suggested Establishment of a Philosophical Depart¬
ment of the National Association—Medals for Prize Essays—
Monthly Soirees—The Bazaar—Begistration of the Association—
Mediums and the Public—Miscellaneous Subjects  122
A Scientific Examination of Mrs. Fay’s Mediumship. By William
Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the QaarfeWy/owrraaf 0/Science ... ...126
A Psychological Society ...        128
The First Experiences of an Inquirer into Spiritualism. No. II.:—
A Prophecy—More Curious Manifestations at Mrs. Marshall’s—
The Double of a Non-Medial Person—The Present and the Future
States of Voice Spirits—A Drawing Test—Apparition of a Troubled
Spirit—A Bemarkable Seance with Mr. Home—Solid Objects
Moving without being Touched—Bemoving a Troublesome Spirit... 128
Brixton Psychological Society    131
Soiree of the National Association of Spiritualists   ...131
Paragraphs:—Longfellow’s Inspiration, 130; Marriage, 131; Becep-
tion at Mr. Tebb’s ... ... ...   - 131
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Established 18 70.)
President.
Henry D. Jencken, Esq,, M.B.I., F.B.G.S. (Barrister-at-Law).
Council
Mr. A. Ferguson Black. j
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton.
Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Mrs. Amelia Comer.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mr. B Pomeroy Tredwen.
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
Hon. Sec. and Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road. Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Buies may be had upon
application.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILT, hold A
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES
On the first Wednesday of each month, until fiurther notice.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition
Hours, from 6.30 to 10 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets. Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d. Sub¬
scribers of one guinea, twenty tickets, each available for any one of the
first six meetings. To be obtained of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road,
Notting-hill, Mr. J. W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, and at the
doors of the hall, on the evening of each Conversazione.
NOTICE.
The purposes of the Association are:—
(1) . .The collection of well-authenticated facts affecting Spiritualism,
through its own circle, or, circles, and other available sources, so as to form
a basis for sound judgment.
(2) . By various means to offer facilities to investigators, and to induce
others to give the matter careful inquiry, with a view to a better understand¬
ing of the phenomena and teachings of Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar As¬
sociations [vide Buie IX.). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary
seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to which strangers
are admitted, under the same regulations as are inforced on the first Thurs¬
day evening in each month.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, members of the Associa¬
tion have the privilege of utilising the well-stocked Library, comprising
numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects. All the
English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are regularly supplied to
the Booms for the perusal of Members.
All communications to be addressed to the Secreiary, at the Booms of
the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed en¬
velope should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies. Copies of the
Prospectus, Buies, Circle Begulations, and directions “ how to form Spirit
“Circles,’’with any further information, to be obtained on application to
the Secretary at his private residence, 12, St. Phlllip’s-road, Dalston, E.
ERSONS in Oxford interested in Spiritualism are
invited to call upon Mr. Stock, 14, Queen-street, with a view to the
formation of a society for the investigation of phenomena and the discus¬
sion of theories in connection with Spiritualism and cognate subjects.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S LECTURES ON SUNDAY
EVENINGS.
Second Course
UPON THE “ SOUL AND SPIRIT OF MAN, ITS ORIGIN,
PROGRESS, AND DESTINY.”
, AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-street, Portland-place, London, every Sunday evening.
Doors open at 6.30, to commence at 7 p.m.
Reserved seats 2s. each. Other seats Is. each, and 6d. each, to be
purchased at the doors.
_ Tickets for a course of twelve lectures can be obtained of Mr.‘Webster
dynes. 4, Gray’s-inn-square, on application, enclosed post-office order for
24s. or 12s.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FEAN CIS BAYENSCEOFT, Manager.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained Of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydepham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size. Is.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cath^drale, Lihge,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
B
EVERIDGE AND
FULLWOOD’
CO., Printers of The
S-EENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Spiritualits
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application. •
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fondO par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Snciete Anonyme, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
n ' ^HE SflEITtlALIST. March 12, 1875.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Was on, Esq, Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Eussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitehman, Messrs. John Priest’
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G-
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be'practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
East lokdoh spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are -delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co-., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Gampden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
J O H N BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Tnree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for aU Spiritualistic Literature,
’ W: H. TERR'S, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Published on the first of each month, Price Sixpence,
The spiritual magazine, edited by george
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is fhe oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such' articles as were likely to
nave a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-row, E.C.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION. OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
mWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
JL. and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—.See Advertisement.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a Itnowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
IT IS INTENDED TO HOLD A
BAZAAR
Under the auspices of the Association, in the latter part of Map, 1875.
The Association concluded at its last Council Meeting to take the
premises -which have been offered to it at 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
The object of the proposed Bazaar is to assist in meeting the very con¬
siderable expenses, which will be needful to furnish Library and Reading
Rooms, Seance Rooms, Council Room, &c.. thus providing a Central Estab¬
lishment, which it is hoped will be found of great value to both London
and Country Spiritualists, Members of the Association and others.
The idea has not received the formal sanction of the Association, but
will undoubtedly do so at the next meeting of the Council.
Contributions for the Bazaar are earnestly solicited to include:—
Useful and Ornamental Articles of all kinds,—Books, Photographs, En¬
gravings and Works of Art, Paintings, Drawings, Direct Writings, or any
“Spiritual” Curiosities from the treasures of private Mediums, would be
specially acceptable.
The promoters of the Bazaar are of opinion, that it would greatly con¬
tribute to its success, if it' were understood, that the articles would be
marked at reasonable and not at exorbitant prices, at the opening of the
Bazaar,—that they would not be disposed of at ridiculously low prices at
its closeand also that contributors who are inclined to do so, may send
a minimum price for any articles of value, at which if not sold, they shall
be re reserved for their own disposal.
On behalf of the (future) Bazaar Committee,
M. A. Everitt,
Emily Kislingbury.
Further arrangements will be announced as soon as possible.
February, 1875.
GOSWELL- HALL, 86, Goswell-road, E.C.—IN¬
STRUCTIVE LECTURES to HUMANITY, are delivered every
Sunday evening, by Trance, Inspirational and other Mediums. Doors open
at 6.30, service at 7 o’clock. Admission Free.
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 and 26 Viet., cap. 89.)
OFFICES:—42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.C.
A Single Peemium covering the whole Life. Profits Divided
AMONGST THE MEMBERS.
Agent—Mr. THOMAS BLYTON, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, London,
E., of whom Prospectuses and all information can be obtained on applica¬
tion.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
s, Hanover place, regent’s park.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shifts, and
umbrellas.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London .—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Nurnberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2Ad. Published on
the 1st of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine,
street, London.
VOjlUjVip ;six. JXUJVtBEI^ ELEVEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 12th, 1873
Cjxe Spratalist
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial Jetters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oobrespondenoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting Of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; ahd all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist''1 in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies cam then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertruda-street. '
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or Spiritualist maybe had by post direct,from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, bj-remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
JglEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—^ Fitzroy-square, W.
EVOKING THE SPIRIT OF A SLEEPING PERSON.
BY PRINCE EMILE DE SAYN-WITTGENSTEIN.
The very interesting experiments related, on pages 97
and 98 of The Spiritualist, No. 131, February 26th,
1875, remind me of a fact, the narration of which may
perhaps be welcome to your readers.
I had, about a year and a half ago, tried in vain to
convert a young lady to the belief that, under special
conditions, her spirit might quit her body and act in¬
dependently of it. After repeated requests she at last
consented to give me a glove she had worn, and by
which I hoped to establish between us the mesmeric
rapport necessary for the experiment.*
We parted that same day, and as soon as circum¬
stances allowed it, I set to work, late in the evening, at
an hour when I supposed her to be asleep; taking the
glove in my left hand and a pencil in my right hand, I
evoked hpr, concentrating all my will upon her. Pre¬
sently I felt myself controlled, and began to write
different answers to the questions I was mentally
uttering. We were at that time separated from each
other by about half a day’s travel.
I continued the same practice for several weeks,
during which the glove gradually lost its power, and
the manifestations grew weaker and weaker, and finally
they ceased altogether.
I afterwards ascertained that she had often dreamt
of me very clearly, and that she even remembered
having once seen me writing at my table. Her description
of my dress and of the room I occupied answered
exactly to the reality. She also confirmed several
facts and episodes of her private life, the particulars of
which I had obtained in the way described.
Every time her spirit answered my call, I felt a
pleasant sort of shiver running down my back, while a
sort of dim circular light, about as big as a plate, and
of a pale, yellowish hue, appeared moving, to and fro
near the ceiling. This light came with the first stroke
of my pencil, and disappeared as soon as the writing
stopped. Sometimes the pencil gave a violent jerk, and
the writing ceased abruptly, placidly to be resumed
some moments later, as if nothing had occurred. This
was explained to me as the result of outward disturb¬
ances having momentarily interrupted the sleep.
But the strangest of all these facts is the following,
I am unable to explain it, and would be thankful to
any person who might undertake to do so.
I was tracing, under the usual control, an account of
a ball, where she pretended to have been the evening
before, she describing, in her merry, girlish way, her
pretty dress, the persons who had talked to her, making
malicious remarks about them, and finally accusing
herself of having been out of temper, and of having
sat in a corner, giving saucy answers, and refusing to
dance. Several months afterwards I met her sister,
who informed me that on that very evening my spiritua
* I had never mesmerised her.—Emilk
March 12, 1875.
122 THE SPIRITUALIST.
correspondent had been absent on a week’s excursion,
but that she, the sister, had actually been at the ball,
her dress, her behaviour, in one word. every particular
other narrative, answering exactly the details I had re¬
ceived under control.
Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
Yevey, Switzerland, 3rd March, 1875.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Monday night a Council meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists was held at Lawson’s Booms,
Gower-street, London, Mr. Alexander Calder in the chair.
Present,—Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. Martin B. Smith, Miss
Houghton, Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.B.I., Dr. Sexton, Mr.
Bobert Harper, Mr. Edward T. Bennett, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt,
Mr. E. D. Bogers, Mr. Keningale Cook, B.A., Mr. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, and Mrs. Showers.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
ALLAN KARDEC’S ''WORKS.
Mr. Joy, hon. secretary, read a letter from Miss Blackwell,
who said that she would be glad to see any members of the
Association who happened to pass through Paris, and that her
translations of Allan Kardec’s Spirit Booh, and Book of
Mediums would he out in a few weeks’ time; she intended
also to translate and publish Allan Kardec’s Genesis.; the re¬
maining two of his five works she must leave to others to
translate.
MR. MORSE IN AMERICA.
A letter from Mr. J. J. Morse, dated Boston, Mass., Jan. 25fch,
1875, was then read. It set forth that he had been well
received in America both by the Spiritual public and by the
press, but that shortly after his arrival he had four days’ severe
sickness; in fact, he had not been so ill during the past
fourteen years, but he soon recovered. He said that the
streets in Boston were inches deep in snow, and the side-walks
covered with from one to two inches of solid ice. The
thermometer was often below zero. His time in America was
fully engaged up to the end of July, when he expected t© leave
New York, and to arrive in Liverpool about the 12th of
August; after remaining there a day or two, he would return
to London. He had been reading in The Spiritualist the
reports of the Council meetings of the National Association,
which Association he trusted would meet with the success it
deserved, and he remembered with much pleasure the many
acts of kindness exhibited by the Association on his behalf.
When questioned about the Association in America, he ex¬
pressed the opinion that such union was a necessity, and
stated that many of the leading minds in England were en¬
listed in the favour of organisation, a subject which he
intended to study during his stay in the United States.
Mr. Everitt read portions of a letter from Mr. J. Mylne, of
India, setting forth that he considered the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists to be a very necessary institution and
could not understand why Mr. Howitt and a few others were
against it; he would willingly subscribe £20 or £30 a year
towards its support.
Mr. Everitt next read extracts from a letter from Mr. H. J.
Charlton, of Liverpool, who recently read a paper before the
Liverpool Psychological Society against the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, on the ground of its alleged tendency to
centralise; but he stated that the information elicited at the
meeting from those who were members of the Association
had modified his views on the whole subject, so that he would
inquire further into the constitution of the organisation, and
might possibly become one of its members.
NEW MEMBERS.
The following new members were then elected unanimously:
Mr. Whingate and Mr. Casson, of Liverpool; Mr. W. Peck,’ of
Cardiff; Captain J. James, of Tottenham; Mr. B. Pomeroy
Tredwen, of the Dalston Association; Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
of Brompton ; Mr. Francis N. Smith; Mr. A. A. Stowe, of
Melbourne ; Mr. E. Decruz; Mr. J. Coates ; and Mr. J. Clarke
Fergusson.
Mr. Samuel Chinnery was elected a member of the Council,
so also was Captain James.
Mr. W. L. Sammons, of Cape Town, South Africa, accepted
honorary membership of the Association: he said that he
had not had much experience of Spiritualism, for it had not
spread to any great extent in his locality, but for a long time
he had been a diligent and solitary reader on the subject—
truly “ a pelican in the wilderness.” He further stated that
the little society of Spiritualists in Cape Town and the paper
representing it both collapsed and came to grief suddenly,
owing to youthful inexperience.
Mr. Joy next read a letter from Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D.,
of New York, author of the valuable book on Spiritualism and
Primitive Christianity. Dr. Crowell had much pleasure in
accepting honorary membership of the Association.
THE HOLMESES’ IMBROGLIO.
The following letter from Dr. Child, of Philadelphia, was
then read.
“534, Raee-slreet, Philadelphia, U.S.A. Feb. 15th, 1875.
Miss Emily Kislingbury,
“Dear Friend,—Yours of Jan. 11th came duly to hand,
but I have been sick since its reception, which has delayed my
reply. I thank you for your expression of sympathy in regard
to the abominable fraud which the Holmeses have practised
upon us. They would not have succeeded so well if we had
not had great confidence in the interesting reports we have
had from London of your Katie, which they very shrewdly
imitated in almost every particular, and were thus better able
to carry on their wicked deception. It is all over now, and
what does it amount to? Simply that two base tricksters, clever it
is true, have succeeded in deceiving many of us for several
months. Now they admit a part of their fraud. But enough
of that—I want to write upon other topics. It is one of the
day dreams of my life to visit England ; when I shall be able
to accomplish it I know not. But I am glad of every oppor¬
tunity to strengthen the ties of friendship between the two
countries, and I believe Spiritualism has done more towards
this than anything else.
“ I am aware that there have been persons going from this
country who were by no means fair representatives of Spirit¬
ualism, yet I rejoice to know that we have had some able and
worthy representatives, and it is a source of unfeigned pleasure
to know that at this time, one of our noblest and best women,
Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan, whom I am happy to number among
my personal friends, is with you and ably representing our
cause. I trust she will be able to continue her labours in your
land.
“The cause has progressed in this country in the past year
more rapidly than in any former one, and it has such a foot
hold now in the public press, and upon the public mind, tha
its course will be upward and onward. It has always had
more to fear from its so-called friends than its enemies. But
there is a constant demand for light in regard to it now, that
cannot fail to bring it prominently and profitably before the
people. You will see by our papers, copies of which I have
sent you, that Mr. Morse is doing a good work here. Mr.
Cooper is with him, and Mr. Collier is also labouring here. I
have seen but little of the latter. If you would like to have
the Religio-Philosophical Journal I will be glad to send it to
you regularly.”—Faithfully yours, Henry T. Child, M.D.”
Mr. Martin B. Smith read portions of a private letter which
set forth that some experienced Spiritualist ought to travel in
the provinces on behalf of the Association, to aid inquirers
who had already formed "circles, but who needed some help
and advice in their various difficulties.
A letter from Mr. Charles Blackburn was read, in which he
had accepted the invitation to become a vice-president of the
Association. He was accordingly elected.
REPORTS OF COUNCIL MEETINGS.
. Mr. Martin Smith said :—I rise to bring before you what
may at first sight appear to be a trifling matter, but which
will be found on consideration to assume an aspect of consi¬
derable importance. It being so, in my opinion at least,
induces me to request our friend, Mr. Harrison, to record my
words. As what I have to say might appear to reflect some¬
what on his good judgment and discretion, I will begin by an
earnest disclaimer of any such intention. I am too conscious
of the many good offices we owe to him to harbour any other
feelings towards him than those of regard and esteem. I am
now alluding to the reports which appear in The Spiritualist
of the proceedings at our Council meetings. I am fain to
acknowledge that these are reported with accuracy; indeed it
is to that extreme accuracy that I venture to take some little
exception. Our discussions, as is very natural in friendly
meetings of this sort, have been too apt to degenerate into
mere conversations, involving a laxity of expression and a
vagueness of suggestion often verging on the jocose. Remarks
THE SPIRITUALIST.
123
March 12, 1875.
made in this spirit are perfectly well understood by those
present, who can judge, from the inflexion of tone or expres¬
sion of countenance, how much importance the speaker
intends to attach to such remarks. But when these are sub¬
sequently reported in print, without explanation or comment,
they are apt to be misunderstood, and to provoke a scarcely
deserved sneer. I am fully aware that it is not fair upon Mr.
Harrison to throw upon him the onus of discriminating be¬
tween jest and earnest, between the chaff and grain of
a conversation, or to blame Mm if the report of .our
proceedings does not read exactly as we could wish
it. No. The remedy lies with ourselves. It is for us
to determine, at once and for ever, that our discussions
shall be worthy of the name, that they shall in future
resemble “ debates,” if that is not using too big a word, rather
than mere conversations. Our present method of discussion
is in many ways faulty. It involves a great waste of time. It
is impossible to report satisfactorily. It encourages members
of Council to come here without having previously given to
the questions to be discussed a full consideration in their
various bearings ; and, as a necessary result, must occasion¬
ally be productive of crude and impossible suggestions. With
a view therefore to increase the dignity and, at the same time,
the practical utility of our discussions, I beg to give notice
of my intention to move at the next meeting of Council the
following resolutions:—
1st. That during the sitting of Council all remarks shall be addressed ex¬
clusively to the chair..
2nd. That all members when addressing the chair shall rise from their
seats, and remain standing whilst so speaking. (It would probably be
thought right that ladies should be exempted from the action of this reso¬
lution.)
3rd. That no member should be permitted to speak twice upon any sub¬
ject, unless with the consent of the majority of the members present.
We have all of us at heart but one object, the success and
progress of our Association, and I venture to think that we
shall advance that object by adopting these or some similar
resolutions ; at the same time, I do not wish to set my own
opinion in opposition to that of others. It may perhaps be
found advisable greatly to modify, or altogether to reject my
suggestions. I shall be satisfied if they receive a fair con¬
sideration.*
Mr. E. T. Bennett said that he fully agreed with what Mr.
Martin B. Smith had said. He thought that the Council had
suffered because of the bye-laws not having been circulated
* At meetings which transact public business, the press represents the
outside multitude, who are supposed to receive an accurate representation
of what takes place, although it would be intolerable were all that trans¬
pires at meetings conducted in an average way, recorded. A certain
amount of discretion, therefore, ought to be exercised by the reporter, but
which was not exercised in the case which Mr. Smith perhaps had in his
mind. "When public meetings get too conversational, there is neverthe¬
less a use in recordingver&aftwi. For instance, at the time when policemen’s
helmets were novelties, the reporter now under criticism recorded part of
the doings of the Council of the important town of; Cardiff, in the Western
Daily Press, of Bristol, somewhat as follows:—“Mr. Bowen examined the
specimen helmet and placed it upon his head, whereupon the Mayor of
Cardiff, in allusion to Mr. Bowen’s Roman nose, remarked that he resembled
the Duke of Wellington. Mr. Bowen then asked whether the ridge over
the crown was intended as an ornament, or to ward off a blow, upon
which Mr. Whiffin said that he would try the experiment, and unexpectedly
brought his fist down upon the top of the helmet.’- Had not the population
of Cardiff the right to know how the valuable time of its Council was
spent? Once Mr. Charles James, solicitor, of Merthyr, made certain
recommendations by letter to the Merthyr Board of Health, and the same
culprit recorded how—directly after the reading of the letter—the impetu¬
ous brother of the writer of it, who was also a solicitor,—exclaimed •“ That
letter is all stuff and nonsense J” a remark which many believed to be true,
but would have been obliged to state in a roundabout way. “ Good¬
ness, gracious, hearts-alive!” was a frequent speech of a public man in
the same locality, so what harm was there in recording it? Once a
councillor asked—“ Mr. Surveyor, When do you intend to fix them
hydrogens?’’ “What?” said the Chairman. “Them hydrogens,” re¬
plied the representative of a place other than Stoke-upon-Trent. He
meant “ hydrants.” Reporting such incidents would do good service by
way of information to School Boards. Sometimes speakers like their
jokes recorded. The same reporter, one night at the opening of Parlia¬
ment, took down, for a London daily paper, Mr. Disraeli’s remark that
“ with one part of the (Liberal) speech from the Throne he agreed, namely,
that part which invoked the blessing of Almighty God upon the proceed¬
ings of that House, for it never needed it more than at that moment.”
Such a joke was too good to be lost to posterity. ' When jokes are un¬
usually far-fetched, the reporter might add. in parenthesis—(This was a
joke!)—but the speaker might not think such an explanation complimen¬
tary. The conducting of public meetings at which reports of committees
are brought up, and heavy financial business transacted, is a science in
itself, about which we believe books have been written, and the rules
should be well understood both by the chairman and the speakers, but
once mastered and acted upon, the saving of time ,is enormous. In the
coarse of a few years, as the chief members of our body gain experience
in these matters, it is to be hoped that the deliberations of the National
Association of Spiritualists will be second in point of adhesion to order, to
no other organised body in the kingdom, but at present the meetings are
well conducted, as compared with the amount of business to be trans¬
acted.—Ep.
months and months ago ; he thought that if the chairman of
the evening kept the bye-laws before him, and saw that they
were enforced, it would meet all the difficulties which Mr.
Martin Smith had pointed out.
Mr. Martin Smith said that if the bye-laws provided a
remedy, he should not press his motion at the next meeting ;
in the meantime he hoped that a copy of the bye-laws would
be sent to every member of the Council.
FINANCE.
The Report of the Finance Committee set forth that the
Association had a balance of £86 11s. Id. in hand, and it re¬
commended payments amounting to £22 11s ; the outstanding
liabilities would then amount to £7.
The items amounting to £22 11s. were ordered to be paid.
The honorary secretary reported that he had received
£5 5s. in subscriptions since the Finance Committee met a few
days previously.
BYE-LAWS.
Copies of the bye-laws, which had been ordered to be printed
at the previous meeting, were produced.
APPOINTMENT OF SECRETARY.
Mr. Martin R. Smith said : I wish to say a few words upon
the subject of the appointment of a secretary. We have come
to the unanimous conclusion than an Association without a
habitation of its own, is but a shadowy unreality; in the same
way I maintain that an office without a permanent resident
secretary, would be equally unsatisfactory. In the first place,
residence on the premises would greatly enhance the comfort
of the person who undertakes these duties, and, I need hardly
tell you, add in a corresponding degree to the efficiency with
which they are performed. The place to be offered to our
secretary is no sinecure. Its duties might doubtless be evaded
with ease, but if we succeed in securing the services of a
secretary whose heart is really engaged in the success of our
Association, the work will be very arduous. It will entail a
large correspondence, some little book-keeping, extensive read¬
ing, and considerable literary work, including the translation
of valuable articles from foreign periodicals. To this must be
added the labour of talking to many visitors; informing the
curious, explaining to the ignorant, being courteous to all, ready
to speak, or ready to listen at the will of the visitor. Later in
the day come a different class. Perchance rooms are let for
seances, or members drop in who have no time in the
day at their disposal. Our “ office ” will not be able to keep
“office hours;” it will partake more of the nature of a club
than of an office, and I suspect that it will be found impossible
to close its doors before nine or ten in the evening. It is not to be
supposed that our secretary can unaided undertake such duties
from ten in the morning to ten at night, for they would involve a
total relinquishment of all society and of all the pleasures, relax¬
ations and amenities of life. I wish, however, to point out to you
that the fact of our secretary being resident on the premises,
will facilitate the solution of this difficulty, which would other¬
wise threaten to be a serious one. We must soon take into
careful consideration the whole question of the duties and
hours of attendance to be required of our secretary. And now
what are our requirements ? We want education, knowledge
of languages, literary ability, energy, tact, patience, capacity,
a thorough knowledge of the facts and history of Spiritualism,
and an abiding interest in the progress of our Association.
If we get all this we are indeed fortunate! But mark you,
the prospects of this Association mainly depend upon our
securing such a person as I have described. (Hear, hear.)
And now I come to the main purport of my remarks. I wish
to propose to you for this important position our friend Miss
Kislingbury. (Great applause.) I need hardly at this meeting
expatiate upon her merits and her fitness for this post. (Ap¬
plause.) You have all known her long ; you are acquainted
with her energy, her zeal, and her great good sense; and I
cannot but hope that you will all agree with me in thinking
that in her person are combined all the great requirements
that I have mentioned. I have reason to believe that she
would accept the post, and I most strongly urge the Council
not to lose so great an opportunity. The question arises at
once of salary; and what I should be disposed to offer, and
what I am led to understand that she would accept, is £150
per annum, with lodging, coals, and gas. I believe this offer
will tempt her from her present employment—tempt her, not
by the slightly increased remuneration that it would offer, but
by the fact that it would give her work thoroughly congenial
to her nature, and which would indeed be to her a labour of
love. I look upon this as so great an opportunity, that I am
willing, if the Council shall see fit to appoint Miss Kisling-
124
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 12, 1875.
bury, to add another £25 per annum to my subscription to
our Association, for I am fully aware that such an appoint¬
ment will strain our resources to the uttermost. I have great
faith, however, in the future of our Association, especially if
we secure as our secretary so clever and indefatigable a
worker as our tried friend, Miss Kislingbury. (Applause.)
Mr. H. D. Jencken had much pleasure in seconding the
proposition of Mr. Martin Smith. While he was listening to
all Mr. Smith said about the qualifications necessary in a
secretary,he thought that the Association would have to place
itself in the position of one of those persons who advertised in
the Times for a governess possessing every possible accom¬
plishment, salary £20 a year, but the last part of Mr. Smith’s
speech had reassured him. He felt that they could not pos¬
sibly have a better secretary than Miss Eislingbury. (Applause.)
Mr. Bennett said that many applicants had intended to enter
the field, but that most of them were frightened when they
heard that the question of the appointment of Miss Kisling¬
bury would be considered. Mr. Albert Snow and Mrs. Rich¬
mond had withdrawn their own applications in her favour.
He then read applications for the office from Mr. H. E. Rendle
and Mr. Thos. Blyton.
The Chairman road a letter from Mr. A. Joy, narrating how
he had worked with Miss Kislingbury as honorary secretary
since the formation of the Association, and setting forth how
very fitted he considered her to be for the post. The Chair¬
man added that he himself thought that nobody could ques¬
tion the soundness of the judgment pf the Council in electing
her to the office of secretary.
Mr. Eitz-Gerald said that he came to the meeting with the
intention of supporting Mr. Rendle, not knowing that the
question of appointing Miss Kislingbury would be brought up ;
under the circumstances, he felt that he must support her,
although had she not been a candidate, he would have sup¬
ported Mr. Rendle.
Miss Kislingbury was then unanimously appointed Secretary
to the Association, at a salary of £150 per annum, with an
unfurnished room on the premises, coals, gas, and use of
kitchen. She also would have another room for the perform¬
ance of her official duties.
THE USE OUT THE BOOMS OS' THE ASSOCIATION.
Mr. E. D. Rogers said that an application for a room upon
the premises had been received from Dr. Maurice Davies. He
thought that Dr. Davies ought to be questioned as to his
exact position in his relation to Spiritualism, in conjunction
with some of his utterances in his recent articles and essays,
before such application were granted.
Mr. Martin Smith said that Mr. Harrison had suggested a
course which would relieve the Council of one difficulty in
connection with the duties of the secretary. It was impossible
for one officer to work from ten in the morning till ten at
night, so Mr. Harrison suggested that his shorthand writer
should sit in the reading-room and act as librarian during the
day, copying out his shorthand notes in his leisure moments ;
it was, however, to be understood that he was to have nothing
to do with secretary’s work or documental matters. Mr. Harri¬
son did not want any remuneration for this, but proposed that
the Association should give him an equivalent, by allowing him
the use of one of the up-stairs rooms as a publishing office ;
there was a room at the top of the house which would do very
well for the purpose. Mr. Harrison suggested that all Spiritual
literature should be thus sold at the offices of the Association,
and the circulation of such literature the Association of course
desired to promote. He thought that as this proposal would
allow the secretary a large gmount of freedom to go where she
pleased, it would be a fair equivalent to allow the use of one
room. As regarded the rest of the rooms, he thought it ad¬
visable that the Association should not let them at present,
but should hold itself free in' the matter, perhaps for the
whole of the first year, for they did not know yet for what
purposes they might require their apartments.
Mr. Jencken quite , agreed that the rooms should not be
let at present, one reason being that their value had not
been ascertained. No rooms in England would be better ad¬
vertised.
FURNISHING THE PUBLIC ROOMS IN THE NEW OFFICES—THE
EXPENSES OF THE SECRETARYSHIP—THE PUBLICATION OF
SPIRITUAL LITERATURE — SUGGESTED ESTABLISHMENT OF A
PHILOSOPHICAL DEPARTMENT OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Mr. Joy then read the following letter
To the Council of the National Association of Spiritualists.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—As the subject of the furnishing
of your new offices will come up again at your next meeting,
I write to state that Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Didsbury, re¬
cently went over the new premises with me, and after his
return home wrote to me that he thought the public reading-
room, also the seance ■ or council room, ought to be well fur¬
nished in drawing-room style, so that the establishment shall
be an elegant place to which to take friends or inquirers ; also
that the said rooms should contain some good book-cases with
glass doors, for the preservation of the volumes in the library.
As he considers that the Association grant of £50 will only
enable the committee to furnish the two rooms plainly,
he generously states that he will make a donation to the
Association of £50, on condition that it is added to the £50
already granted by the Council, and that the whole amount
shall be employed to furnish the two rooms handsomely.
He further wishes to he enrolled as a life member of the
Association.
Mr. Blackburn also expresses the opinion that the permanent
secretary ought to he some well-educated and competent
person, who has worked disinterestedly for Spiritualism in the
past, so that by the appointment of a well-known and well-
tried worker in the movement, the members of the Association
shall feel satisfied that good work and close attention to duty
will-be the result of having such an officer. There are several
good workers in Spiritualism answering to this description.
He says that if the engagement of such a secretary is beyond
the means of the Association at present, he will make one, if
others will join, to subscribe a small sum annually for three
years to make up the required amount.
As the propositions in this letter are the result of some
conversations and correspondence, I have sent a copy of this
note to Mr. Blackburn, who says that it expresses what he
intended.
As the public rooms will be chiefly attended during the
evening, yet must be open also throughout the day, the hours
will be too long for the permanent secretary to attend to them
alone, and therein lies another source of expense to the Asso¬
ciation, concerning which I have a proposition to make.
I am engaged upon many newspapers, so to economise time
am obliged to keep a shorthand.clerk, who might just as well
write out his longhand notes in your reading-room as else¬
where, and attend to the requirements of readers say from ten
to five o’clock, with one hour for dinner, during which he
would have to be relieved by the secretary, it being also under¬
stood that his duties to the Association shall be paramount
and under your control during those hours, or such other
hours as may be deemed suitable, and his work for me to be
done only in leisure moments; also that he shall have no
let ter-writing or secretary’s work to do for you, but only to
attend to the requirements of readers and callers, during the
absence of the secretary,
I am willing that he shall do this work without any money
charge to the Association, btit that in return the Association
shall give me one of- the small rooms at the top of the house,
plainly furnished, as a publishing office, and on condition
that all the English Spiritual periodicals shall be kept on sale,
without particular favour or precedence to any one of them.
This will remove long-standing restrictions upon the circula¬
tion of Spiritual literature in that neighbourhood. The men
who sell Spiritual periodicals at public and societary meetings
at that end of town, have frequently, during the past three or
four years, told me of the refusal on the part of local dealers
to supply them with one section of Spiritualistic literature,
whilst another section of the literature has been supplied
freely. When Mr. Earmer temporarily abolished those re¬
strictions, it made a great difference in the amount of Spirit¬
ualistic literature circulated in that neighbourhood. Hence
if the Association secures a free supply of the whole range of
the literature in the neighbourhood, the public interests will
be served, and everybody benefited. I have no intention at
present to go into a publishing business to any great extent,
in fact shall be at the proposed office but a few hours per week,'
but might perhaps issue a limited number of carefully selected
works. The publishing of Spiritual works is sometimes offered
me, and afterwards goes to persons not connected with Spirit¬
ualism. Although in a question of letting rooms, the Asso¬
ciation may think it not to be much within their province to
considerto what uses, solongas they be legitim ate, the hirersmay
put them, I have yet thought it desirable to give these details.
If this room should be granted me, it may be used at times
mutually agreed upon, for the experimental and other pur¬
poses of a scientific committee of the Association, for the
appointment of such a committee is only a question of time.
The philosophical apparatus, belonging to the Association or
lent by its private members, may be also stored away in this
March 12, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST. 125
room, so as to be under the care of one who understands its
use. Plenty of scientific work could be done now at very small
expense, because many scientific Spiritualists to my know¬
ledge possess and are willing to lend the necessary apparatus.
The Association, through its committee, might determine more
accurately than has hitherto been attempted whether any
electrical disturbance is connected with spirit raps; also how
the temperature of the bodies of mediums varies during mani¬
festations ; likewise by means of reflecting galvanometers
reveal much that is going on inside cabinets in which en¬
tranced mediums are necessarily isolated from spectators, and
other problems of like interest might be solved. Such a
committee, consisting only of Spiritualists who “ understand
conditions,” will of course learn more about the manifestations
than can possibly be done by disbelieving physicists who break
conditions, and scientific discovery will be far more rapid in
the hands of Spiritualistic investigators, than in the hands of
outsiders. I have much scientific apparatus of use for lecture
and other purposes; Mr. Martheze has a valuable stock of
apparatus at Geneva, not in use, and which perhaps he might,
if asked, deposit pro tern in the suggested philosophical
department of the National Association; Mr. Yarley has often
generously lent me all galvanometrical and other apparatus of
use in researches in connection with Spiritualism; and Mr.
Blackburn takes much interest in this branch of the subject,
so that it is to be hoped that before long, perhaps in a few
months, the scientific department will be one of the most
interesting in the new establishment, and will have allotted to
it one of the best rooms on the premises. Very truly yours,
The Chairman then raised some technical questions about
the letting of the premises to the Association, and the sub¬
letting of portions of them by the Association, calling special
attention to some of the terms in the lease of the present
occupier.
Dr. Sexton asked whether Mr. Harrison was going to
publish The Spiritualist there instead of in the City, and
whether numbers of dirty boys would be constantly calling at
the office for papers.
Mr. Harrison replied that the paper would be pub¬
lished by Mr. Allen as usual, and would be called for
there by the trade as at present. He did not think that
many besides Spiritualists would know of the existence
of the branch office on the premises of the Association. There
would be no name on the street door, and no bills in the
windows ; in short, it was simply a provision enabling members
of the Association and others to obtain all the spiritual
periodicals, and a few very carefully selected works of high
quality, on the premises, if, they desired so to do. The
technical question raised by the chairman applied more
to the arrangement between the Association and the present
occupier of the premises, than it did to the proposition
about the lending of this room.
Mr. Martin Smith said that the Association did not let the
room under the proposed arrangement, but lent it. He moved
that Mr. Harrison’s offer be accepted.
Mr. Keningale Cook seconded this, and it was carried unani¬
mously.
MEDALS FOK PRIZE ESSAYS.
Mr. Martin Smith reported that the Essays Committee had
met, and the subject which had been selected was “ The Pro¬
bable Effects of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and Reli¬
gious Conditions of Society,” each competitor to make his essay
equal in length to about six columns of the Tivces. Some
of the gentlemen whom it was thought desirable to
invite to become judges could not act, others had not yet been
asked, and others were ready to undertake the duties ; as the
committee was thus not yet ready to announce the scheme in
all its details, he had to request that the consideration of the
subject should be postponed. He had received a letter from
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace to the effect that, as Spiritualism
was growing so rapidly, 'essays upon what influence it might
have in the future must be to a large extent speculative; he
doubted whether it would not be better to employ literary
energy in collecting and classifying some of the spiritual
phenomena of the past ages.
Mr. R. Harper said that he thought scientific men or
clergymen would not make the best judges of essays, because
their minds ran in particular-grooves.
The Chairman—Unless they are Spiritualists ?
Mr. Harper remarked that even then they would be
“ Spiritualists of a colour.” Scientific men only valued what
was amenable to the processes of physical science.* He
thought the subject selected for the essay was a capital one.
Mr. Smith said that the subject was a good one, because it
would cause the essays to show the cui bono of Spiritualism.
The further consideration of the subject of prize essays was
then postponed.
MONTHLY SOIREES.
Mr. Joy announced that the next soiree would be held on the
7th of April. The soir&e accounts had not been completed.
Mrs. Everitt said that the surplus from the soirees ought to be
at the disposal of the ladies who get them up, to be expended
in the purchase of articles, such as teacups and saucers, which
under the present system had to be hired at somewhat ex¬
pensive rates. Mrs. Kislingbury and Mrs. Maltby had been
doing a great deal of work in connection with the soirees.
Miss Houghton seconded this proposition which was carried
unanimously.
The names of Mrs. Everitt and Miss Kislingbury were added
to the Offices Committee, since it was thought that their
assistance would be useful in the matter of furnishing the
rooms.
THE BAZAAR.
Mr. E. T. Bennett announced that the bazaar of the Na¬
tional Association would be held in the latter part of May, 1875,
under the patronage of the Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Lady
Shelley, Madame Martheze, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mrs.
Martin R. Smith, Mrs. Strawbridge, and Mrs. Showers';
the object of the bazaar was to assist in meeting the ex¬
penses of furnishing the new offices. The Bazaar Committee
consisted of Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Maltby, Mrs. Kislingbury, and
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood, with power to add to their number. He
thought that it would be well that the bazaar should be held
during the same week as the annual meeting of the Associa¬
tion, so that provincial visitors should have a double in¬
ducement to visit London at that time.
The programme recommended by Mr. Bennett was adopted
and approved by the Council.
RE8ISTRATI0N OF THE ASSOCIATION.
Mr. E. D. Rogers produced in print copies of the necessary
forms for the registration of the Association under the Act of
1867; these forms, he said, had been kindly drawn up by Mr.
Jencken. They would have to be read and considered very
carefully; some of the rules of 'the Association would have
to be modified to meet the requirements of the law, and some
of the items in the rules would have to be put in the bye-laws.
He thought that a special meeting should be called for the
discussion of these important items, and he believed that at
that meeting some of the paragraphs in the proposed forms
would be modified. When the Association was registered, it
would limit the liability of the members to five shillings each,
Mr. Martin Smith said that the business of the Council was
so heavy that he thought it would be well to hold its meetings
once a fortnight instead of once a month ; at all events for
the present. (Hear, hear.)
It was then resolved that a special meeting of the Council
be held 6n Tuesday, March 23rd, at 6.30 p.m., and that at the
close of the registration business the meeting should be made
ordinary.
This and all future meetings of the Council will probably
be held at its new offices, and not at Lawson’s Rooms.
MEDIUMS AND THE PUBLIC.
Mr. Keningale Cook gave notice that at the next meeting he
should move, “ That the Association do take into considera¬
tion the question of its responsibility as a national body,
acting in a general relation to -the public as well as to its own
members, especially in the matter of professional mediums,
their genuineness or otherwise, and the effect which their un¬
criticised action is likely to have upon those investigating the
subject of Spiritualisfn.”
MISCELLANEOUS SUBJECTS.
Mr. E. T. Bennett moved that, with reference to the proposed
subscription of £30 a year by Mr. Mylne, he be invited to con¬
tribute £15 to the ordinary funds of the Association, and £15
to the guarantee fund.
This, was agreed to.
Mr. Martin Smith suggested that as the tenure of the new
offices by the Association was of a temporary character, that
* Mr. Harper makes the common mistake of using the word “ science’1
as synonymous with the word “ physics,” which it is not; the nature of
this not -uncommon confusion of terms, was pointed out in the speeches
given in a report of a meeting of the Brixton Society of Spiritualists pub¬
lished in these pages a fortnight ago.—Ed.
126
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 12, 1875.
the book-cases purchased should he small ones, so that they
could he easily moved; and further, by having small book¬
cases, instead of large ones, they could classify their books
better. He had a promise of a donation of £10 10s. towards
the library fund.
It was announced that probably Mr. William Oxley would
see that the library was well supplied with the works of Swe¬
denborg.
Mr. Joy announced that Mr. Terry, of Melbourne, had pre¬
sented the Association with four volumes of the Harbinger of
Light, the Australian Spiritual periodical.
The Chairman said that a series of lectures in the country,
under the auspices of the Association, ought to be arranged
as soon as possible; he thought that the minds of the mem¬
bers of the Council ought to be turned in that direction.
Mr. Smith thought so too, but just at present, while there
were so many expenses in starting the new offices, it was a
question of money.
The proceedings then closed.
A SCIENTIFIC EXAMINATION OF MRS. FAY’S
MEDIUMSHIP.
BY WILLIAM CROOKES, B.B.S., EDITOR OP THE “QUARTERLY
JOURNAL OP SCIENCE.”
About a year ago Mrs. Annie Eva Fay came to this
country from the United States, with a good reputation
as a medium for the production of physical phenomena.
It appeared to me that the means first devised by
Mr. Yarley to test the mediumship of Miss Cook, and
which was attended with such satisfactory results in
her case, as already recorded by him in The Spiritualist,
would be the best to demonstrate whether the phenomena
which took place in the presence of Mrs. Fay were
produced by sleight-of-hand or were genuine. Expe¬
rience has shown that the best conditions for the pro¬
duction of the most striking phenomena in Mrs. Fay’s
mediumship are, that she should be isolated from the
other persons present, and in darkness; therefore, in
order to get manifestations under test conditions,
it was necessary that the medium should be so
tied that she could not be freed by herself or by any
other power without the knowledge of the observers.
Mrs. Fay is usually tied with tapes or string; I proposed
to tie her with a current of electricity. This method has
the advantage of absolute certainty, since, if the medium
has her hands or body removed from the wires, in a
state of trance or otherwise, the galvanometer outside
lets the spectators know the moment that the circuit
is broken. On the other hand, if the wires should be
joined together so that the current can still pass, the
effect is quite as surely made evident by the galvano¬
meter.
On Friday evening, Feb. 19th, Mrs. Fay came to
my house alone, to submit to these tests, in the pre¬
sence of several well-known scientific men. She
entered the drawing-room, and conversed with us for
about a quarter of an hour, after which my friends
went down stairs to examine the electrical apparatus
and my library, which was to be used as the dark room.
They examined the cupboards and opened the desks.
They put strips of paper over the fastenings of the
window shutters, and sealed them with their signet
rings. They also sealed up, in a similar manner, the
second door of the library, which opens" into a passage.
The other door opens from the library into my labora¬
tory, in which the experimentalists remained during
the tests ; a curtain, consequently, was suspended over
this door, to place the library in comparative darkness,
and to admit of rapid and easy passage to and fro.
The accompanying cut shows the arrangement of the
apparatus.
D, battery.
F, galvanometer.
H, shunt to cut off more or less of the current in order to regulate
the deflection of the galvanometer.
E, box of resistance coils.
A and B, keys to make and break contact.
(A) is always closed, and used only to correct or check zero.
(B) pressed down to K, puts the resistance coils in place of the
medium.
The two wires on each side of the arrow go to the medium.
The medium takes hold of two handles, attached
to the wires below the arrow, and thus completes
the circuit, and causes the light from the galva¬
nometer to be deflected on the scale. The shunt
is now adjusted, the object being to distribute the
current between the galvanometer and the shunt, so as
to cause a convenient deflection of the former. Any
movement of the medium is now seen by a variation of
the position of the spot of light. If the wires or
handles are short circuited in any way the spot of light
flies off the scale; ii^ on the other hand, contact is
broken by the medium leaving go, the light immedi¬
ately drops to zero.
To take the resistance of the medium, the key, B, is
pressed down, which places the resistance coils in the
circuit instead of the medium. Pegs are then taken
out till the deflection on the galvanometer is equal to
that produced by the medium; the resistances are then
equal both of the medium and coils, and the figures are
read off on the latter.
The reflecting galvanometer with resistance coil and
shunt, were placed close against the wall in the labora¬
tory by the side of the curtain, and two short pieces of
very thick wire ran through the wall, and were securely
soldered to two brass handles on the other side ; these
handles were to be held by Mrs. Fay, whose body thus
completed the electrical circuit, and gave me a deflec¬
tion on the galvanometer varying with her electrical
resistance. The brass handles were tightly covered
with two pieces of linen soaked in salt and water.
Before commencing the experiments, Mrs. Fay soaked
her hands in salt and water, and on then taking hold
of the handles, I have always found the amount of
deflection to be very steady, owing to the large amount
of conducting surface exposed to contact with the
hands. When she seized the terminals, the exact
amount of deflection due to the resistance of her body
was given by the galvanometer; if she caused the
handles to touch each other the deflection was so great
as to cause the light to fly wildly off the scale; if she
ceased to hold the handles for an instant the ray of
light came to zero ; if she had attempted to substitute
anything besides her body to establish partial contact
between the two handles, the great oscillations of the
March 12, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
127
luminous index, which would have taken place while it
was being done would at once have exposed her, after
which the chances would have been infinite against its
producing the right amount of deflection.
My friends inspected these arrangements, and two of
them, well-known fellows of the Royal Society, tried
what could he done by connecting the two terminals
with a damp handkerchief. By a series of careful ad¬
justments, between each of which they had to ask me
what amount of deflection had thus been produced upon
the galvanometer outside, they in time obtained an
amount of resistance the same as that of a human
body; but to effect this would have been impossible
without information as to the indications given by the
galvanometer outside, and all this time the violent
oscillations of the ray of light showed that they were
trying to make a new contact by tricks of some kind.
At the suggestion of one of them, however, and to
obviate this barely possible source of error, the brass
handles were then nailed so far apart, that he expressed
himself satisfied that neither he nor anybody else could
repeat the experiment with the handkerchief which he
had just exhibited.
Mrs. Fay was then invited down into the library;
she took her seat in a chair before the brass handles,
and the gaslights in the library were then reduced to
one, which was turned low. We noted the distance
from her of several prominent articles. A musical box
was lying on my desk at a distance of about four feet
from her ; a violin lay upon the table at a distance of
about eight feet; and my library ladder rested against
the book shelves at a distance from her of about twelve
feet. We then asked her to moisten her hands with
salt solution, and to seize the terminals.1 This she did,
and at once a deflection was produced upon the galva¬
nometer scale due to the resistance of her body; we
then left the library and entered the laboratory, which
was illuminated by gas sufficiently for us to see every¬
thing distinctly.
We commenced the tests at 8.55, p.m.; the deflec¬
tion by the galvanometer was 211°, and the resistance
of Mrs. Fay’s body 6,600 British Association units.
At 8.56 the deflection was 214°, and at this moment
a hand-bell began to ring in the library. At 8.57 the
deflection was 215°. A hand came out of the cabinet
on the side of the door farthest from Mrs. Fay;
It should be clearly understood that I was on one
side of the wall with' the galvanometer, that Mrs.
Fay was on the opposite side holding the handles,
soldered to pieces of wire, so secured that she could not
move her hands or the handles an inch to the right
or left, and that under these conditions, a hand came
out from the farthest side of the*curtained door alongside
us, at a distance of three feet from the brass handles,
and all within two minutes after we had left the room.
At 8.58 the deflection was 208°; at 8.59 it was
215°, and at this moment a hand came out at the
further side of the curtain, and handed a copy of The
/Spiritualist newspaper to Mr. Harrison.
At 9 o’clock the deflection was 209°; at this moment
a hand was again seen to come out and hand Serjeant
Cox a copy of his book entitled What am II At 9.1
the deflection was 209°, the hand appeared again, and
gave a little book on Spectrum Analysis to its author,
who was one of the observers.
At 9.2 the deflection was 214°; a hand was again
visible and gave to a well-known traveller who was pre¬
sent a book entitled Art of Travel.
At 9.3, the hand threw a box of cigarettes at another
gentleman who was present, and who was known to be
partial.to the fragrant weed. I could have been posi¬
tive that that box of cigarettes was in a locked drawer
in my desk when Mrs. Fay entered the room.
At 9.4 the deflection was 213°. I again measured
the resistance of Mrs. Fay’s body, and it was then
6,500 British Association units. At this moment a small
ornamented clock, which had been standing on the
mantle-piece five feet from the medium, was handed out.
At O.dJ, the deflection was 210°; Serjeant Cox,
and some of the other observers, said that they saw a
full human form standing at the opening of the
curtain.
At 9.5, the circuit was seen to be suddenly broken.
I entered the library instantly, followed by the others,
and found that Mrs. Fay had fainted, or was entranced.
She was lying back in the chair senseless, but revived
in the course of half an hour. Thus this remarkable
seance lasted for exactly ten minutes.
A piece of old china, in the shape of a plate, was
found lying upon the top of my writing-desk in the
library; it was not there before the experiments
began. In my drawing-room upstairs there is a
moulding all round the wall, near the ceiling, and
about eight feet from the ground; resting upon this
moulding are several pieces of old china, including
some small plates. Mrs. Fay had been in the drawing¬
room for perhaps an hour before the seance began, but
she was not there except in the presence of several
witnesses; the room was Well lighted, and had she
mounted a chair to reach one of the plates near the
ceiling, of course every one must have seen it. The
plates had been on those mouldings for weeks with¬
out being moved, for no member of my family had
occasion to touch them; and one of the gentlemen
present said he was sure that the plate was not on the
desk when the experiments commenced, because he
looked at the top of the desk with the intention of
placing something on it, which he wished to put out
of the way. Many similar cases of the carriage of
solid objects from one place to another by abnormal
means are on record in Spiritualistic literature.
Before Mrs. Fay came to the house, that evening,
she only knew the names of two of the guests who
would be present, but during the evening the intelli¬
gence at work displayed an unusual amount of know¬
ledge about the sitters and the labours of their lives.
The book on Spectrum Analysis was one with no
letters on the back, yet it was removed from its place
and handed to its author. Although I know generally
the position of the books in my library, I certainly
could not find them in the dark, and I have no reason
for supposing that Mrs. Fay knew anything about such
a book being in existence, or in my library, or that it
was written by the particular person present.
On previous occasions I had applied an electrical
test to Mrs, Fay’s manifestations. On 5th of February
last we had a seance which commenced at 9.15 p.m.
The deflection when she took hold of the handles was
260°; it oscillated—266°, 190°, 220°, 240°, then re¬
mained steady at 237°; the medium’s resistance at
920° was 5,800 British Association units. Knockings
were heard at 9.28, when the deflection was oscillating
between 215° and 245°.
At 9.30, the light was tolerably steady at 230°; the
resistance was 5,900. A great deal of rapping was
now heard, apparently on the door close to the medium,
128
THE SPIRITUALIST. March 12, 1875.
but there was no movement of the light, which proved
Mrs. Fay’s hands to be perfectly still.
At 9:31 the deflection was 234°. The medium was
then heard to sigh and sob. The spot of light was
steady at 233°, although several instruments were now
playing at the same time. Movements were then heard
in the room; several articles were thrown into the
laboratory through the opening of the curtain; the
violin was given to me by a visible hand, which was
seen also by the others in the room. All this time the
luminous index was very steady, which proved that
the medium was still while these things were occurring.
At 9.34 the light was steady at 236°, and the zero was
correct. At 9.37 we could hear the musical box being
wound up, the light still keeping steady. At 9.38 the
deflection was 238°. At 9.39 the medium broke con¬
tact by dropping the handles. She was just able to
say, “ So tired of holding these things.” Then she
was entranped, but recovered in a short time.
On Saturday, Feb. 6th, another experimental seance,
was held at my house. It was got up somewhat hur¬
riedly, for the benefit of an eminent F.L.S., who was
unable to attend the previous evening. Mrs. Fay was
the medium. A few extra precautions were taken.
The library was thoroughly searched, the doors and
windows were closed, and strips of paper were gummed
over them. These pieces of paper .were then sealed
over with a ring belonging to a lady present; after
which the electrical test was applied, just as upon the
night before.' Almost the same things took place, with
the same results, namely our not being able to detect
the slightest movement on the part of the medium.
My desk, which fastens with a Bramah lock, was shut
carefully just before the seance, yet it was found open
after the seance was over. This was a very short one.
It commenced at 9.15 and ended at 9.30 p.m.
At first I always give new mediums who come to
me their own conditions; for while I do not know
what the phenomena may be, I am not in a position
to suggest tests, nor, possibly, should I be able to get
them before the mediums have confidence in me and
that I will not play them any tricks, after which they
have always shown a desire to help me as much as they
can. All manifestations depend upon delicate condi¬
tions intimately connected with the nervous state of the
sensitives, and most manifestations are checked when
anything takes place to annoy them.
A PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Mr. Serjeant Cox has sent us the prospectus of a new
organisation, entitled “The Psychological Society of Great
Britain.” Its prospectus sets forth that at a meeting, held on
Monday, February 22nd, Mr. Serjeant Cox in the chair, it was
resolved unanimously:—
That a society for the promotion of psychological science he now formed.
—That the society he called the “ Psychological Society of Great Britain.”
—That the object of the society be the scientific investigation of psychology
in all its branches.—That such investigation be by the collection of facts, by
the reading of papers, and by discussions thereon.—That the purpose of
the society being to treat the subject solely as questions of science, all theo¬
logical discussion be strictly excluded.—That the society shall consist of an
unlimited number of members, to be elected by the council.—That the
annual subscription to be paid by members residing within twenty miles
from London be two guineas, and by members residing beyond that dis¬
tance one guinea.—That the business of the society be conducted by a
president, four vice-presidents, a council (not exceeding twelve members), a
treasurer, auditor, and secretary, all of whom shall be elected annually by
the members.—That the society meet periodically at such times and places
as the council shall appoint.—That the proceedings at the meetings of the
society be conducted in accordance with such rules and regulations as the
council shall from time to time direct. Three of the council shall be a
quorum.—That a general meeting of the society be held in the month of
November next for the election of the officers of the society.—That F. K.
Munton, Esq,, of 21, Montague-street, be requested to undertake the office
of honorary secretary, pro tem.
THE FIRST EXPERIENCES OF AN INQUIRER INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
NO. II. .
The following is a continuation of the paper read by
Mr. W. H. Harrison before the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism, narrating his early experi¬
ences in the investigation of the subject:—
In my diary I find many entries about the developing circle
at Wood Green; but no manifestations were obtained at it,
except one night while I was away at Norwich. On that occa¬
sion a few table tilts were obtained, and one of the sitters felt
himself grasped on the shoulder by a strong but invisible
hand. One night also while I was absent at the British As¬
sociation for the Advancement of Science at Norwichthe table
in the nursery at Mr. Varley’s -house was twisted round
while the children were playing near it, which frightened them,
so they came downstairs and told what had occurred. The
spirits then said that henceforth they wanted our circle to sit
in that room instead of downstairs, which was why they called
attention to it in the manner described.
On Monday, August 31st, 1868, I first met Miss Houghton,
who told me that she and her mother sat for three months
every night at a table before they obtained any manifestations,
and that she had to wait eighteen months longer before her
spirit drawings began.
A PROPHECY.
On Friday, September 4th, 1868,1 called upon the Rev. J.
Murray Spear for a seance, and met him for the first time. He
went into the trance state, and told me that I should become
“ the spiritual reporter,” because I was fitted for the work, and
could attend spirit circles without interfering with the mani¬
festations or being influenced myself. I wrote to him after¬
wards, and told him that I thought that this message came
from his own mind, while he was in another state of conscious¬
ness, and was given in consequence of his knowing me to bo
connected with newspapers, and thinking that it was desirable
I should do the prescribed work.
Years have passed since then, and the sequel shows that he
was not so far wrong.
MORE CURIOUS MANIFESTATIONS AT MRS. MARSHALL’S.
On Tuesday, September 8th, 1868,' I took a highly educated
young friend, related/ to some of the foremost families in
Germany, to Mrs. Marshall’s. He could speak many lan¬
guages, and had a general knowledge of the physical
and mental sciences, also of mathematics. He seated
himself in a cane-bottomed chair, which sprang up
and twisted round about ninety degrees while he was
sitting upon it; this was in a bright light, and while
nobody was. sitting near him. He sprang to his feet,
turned up the little chair, and looked at the carpet, but could
find nothing. Afterwards raps told him that his guardian
spirit was present, that her name was “ Agapa,” and that she
died 1,200 years ago. At the dark seance John King told him
that the spirits had two ways of making raps. They made
them ordinarily by gathering some of the aura surrounding
the medium, moulding it in their hands as if it were clay, and
throwing it down like a ball upon the table, where it made an
explosive noise. He illustrated this by making several loud
splashes rather than bangs, which might have been heard in
the street outside. I asked him how spirits lifted tables. He
said that “ he sometimes lifted the table personally until it
made his shoulders ache, but that generally spirits outside and
above the house lifted it with a stream of power under their
control; when the table tilted more from one side than
another it showed that there was an excess of power on that
side.” As materialised arms and hands are sometimes formed
under tables in the partial darkness there, then are thrust out
so that the observers can see them, I am not prepared to say
that materialised shoulders may not occasionally be there
also. Andrew Jackson Davis, in one of his clairvoyant
visions, saw spirits outside and above a dwelling raising tables
within the house; I am not now prepared to say whether I
had not read this, and afterwards put leading questions to
John King on the subject; if so, it detracts from the value of
his statement. He said that many spirit friends of the sitters
always came to the seances with them, but that they had no
power of communicating except through'the speaking spirits.
He said that there is, usually a circle of spirits above the
house in which a seance is held, corresponding to the circle of
mortals below.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
129
Mabch 12, 1875.
I sat next to Mrs. Marshall at this seance, and held her hand
■while John King spoke to me from the opposite side; I could
feel his breath blowing into my left ear as he spoke to me,
while Mr. and Mrs. Marshall were seated on my right. By
close observation I had discovered long before then that John
King and Mrs. Marshall never spoke at the same time, in
consequence, as we now know, of voice spirits using the breath
of the medium when they speak. Thus by patiently watching
the manifestations instead of hastily forming theories about
imposture, I was rewarded by discovering that John King, on
this occasion, spoke by the direct voice, quite independently
of the medium. At this seance my friend put several ques¬
tions in a provincial German dialect, and he obtained answers
, in the same language by raps; the answers related to
his family affairs and were correct. Some weeks afterwards,
he was discovered to be a medium, and I have noticed that
when two mediums meet each other for the first time, such
test messages are common.
THE DOUBLE OE A NON-MEDIAL PEESON.
On Saturday, Sept. 12th, 1868, I went alone to a private
seance with Mr. and Mrs. Marshall, in order to have a
long conversation with John King. At first we sat in the
light, when the raps said, “/ am your good familiar spirit."
“ Then please tell me who you are.” “ Fes. I am yourself."
I turned to Mrs. Marshall, and asked what was the meaning
of these messages. She said that “ she did not know; she had
never heard any like them before; perhaps it was my ‘ double,’
aa some people were said to have doubles of themselves in the
spirit world.” This was the first I had ever heard of the human
double, and it was too great an hypothesis to be suddenly
received, so I jumped to the conclusion that probably the
message was a joke of John King’s. I said, “ Will you tell
me more in a dark room ? ” The raps said, “ Yes." We
entered the dark rooni, where in a short time some luminous
comet-like bodies, about a foot long, thick at the head and
tapering away to a fine point at the tail, occasionally flitted
about with a curvilinear motion. After a little delay, a voice
near me said, “ J am your spirit self. I spolce to you in the
other room." I still thought it probable that this was a joke
of John King’s, and did not pursue the conversation, a circum¬
stance I have always regretted, now that we know what an
important part the double, or something that resembles the
double, plays in a vast number of spiritual manifestations.
THE PBESENT AND THE FUTURE STATES OF VOICE SPIRITS.
John King said, in answer to my questions :—“ You mortals
look to us exactly the same as you look to each other. When a
spirit from our world first returns to speak to his mortal friends,
he is surprised that they do not answer, for the spirit has to gain
experience. Spiritualism will spread, and in time spirits will
appear by daylight and talk to mortals, for wediave not yet reached
the end of our manifestations. The lights you saw were of phos¬
phorus which we took from your bodies. In speaking, we take
power from your organs of voice, and your own voice is
tveak, for I feel it to be so now. We travel as swift as
thought, and have the power of visiting other planets, many
of which are better than this earth. There are mediums among
spirits as well as among mortals, and it is not every spirit who
is able to communicate. I belong to the sphere next to your
earth, but there are other spheres. Some spirits of the higher spheres
communicate with men direct, and others with spirits in my sphere,
but the communications are always coloured and altered by the
channel they pass through, especially when the mediums are unde¬
veloped. In my sphere there are many different kinds of life, for
‘ in my Father's house there are many mansions' Looking for¬
ward to my own future, I see a change before^ me analogous to
earthly death, but it is only a kind of sleep, which I must pass
through to enter the next stage of being. The hands sometimes seen
at spirit circles are .not our hands, but hands made by ms out of
substances taken from the medium; we can make them like our own
hands if we like. Some time or other I will bnng an artist with
me, and draw you some sketches by direct spirit action, showing
our arrangements for moving tables.''
A great deal of this is now known to be true.
I asked John King if he could then and there go to my home
and tell me what was taking place. He replied, “ Yes."
There was then an interval of two seconds, after which John
King said, ” The-te are four persdns there who have been having
something to eat, and two of them have gone for a walk." I after¬
wards learned that this was not true.
I asked the spirit who called himself Roger Bacon why he
did not give the direct voice manifestations in the light ? He
replied, "Because the light bums up our atmospheres ; ive like moon¬
light, or light without heat." This spirit always communicated
with more difficulty than John King, and his voice usually
came from high above our heads ; he always claimed that he
was a spirit sent there to teach and raise other voice spirits.
A DRAWING- TEST.
By this time I had discovered that there was a general
sameness in these physical manifestations, and that the mes¬
sages were much coloured by the opinions of the mediums,
and by leading questions put by the sitters, so I ceased to keep
a record of all the many seances I attended during the next
five months, although at the end of that time I recorded from
memory several of the chief things that had come under my
notice in the interval. During this period I visited Haver¬
fordwest, in company with the medium friend already men¬
tioned, and we made the subject of Spiritualism known to
several personal acquaintances there. In one case a rather
curious incident occurred. A friend was asked to draw some¬
thing out of sight of the medium and of everybody else
present, to see if the spirit could discover what it was, and
copy it through the hand of the medium. The experimentalist
went to the other end of the room, and drew something upon
a piece of paper. The medium instantly drew two triangles
upon one base, and of exactly the same form as those which
it was afterwards discovered that the inquirer had drawn
upon his' piece of paper. It will be remembered that Dr.
Maurice Davies, by. writing on paper at one end of the room,
could get answers from the medium at the other, and Mrs.
De Morgan has recorded several similar cases in her book,
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans).
APPARITION OF A TROUBLED SPIRIT.
One night, a little before or after the close of the year 1868,
a fierce storm blew over London, which rocked even small
houses to their foundations, and the wind, after speeding
over the flat open country round Beckenham, caught the
houses there with such violence as to blow in several of the
windows; some of the windows in the tower of Mr. Yarley’s
house were thus shattered. Mr. Yarley was travelling on the
Continent at the time. Mrs. Yarley and some of the servants
got up and did the best they could to stop out the wind by
means of shutters and boards, after which Mrs. Yarley’s maid
and a new cook resolved that they would not go to bed again,
so lighted a fire in the kitchen, and sat up waiting for day¬
break ; the rest of the servants and Mrs. Varley returned to
bed. The new cook had only been in the house a day or two,
and had not entered it above half an hour befote she learned
that her new master and mistress were Spiritualists, upon
which she said to the other servants that she wished she had
known that before, for then she would not have taken service
with such lunatics.
On the stormy night in question, the new cook sat toast¬
ing her knees by the kitchen fire, when she looked round
and saw what she at first thought to be Mrs. Yarley’s maid
playing tricks with a white sheet over her head, for a
woman was standing in the doorway; but on gazing more
attentively she found that this woman was clad in dirty
white robes, she had dark evil-looking eyes, in one hand
she held a staff, and in the other a wreath of immortelles,
and her feet did not touch the ground. As soon as the
cook obtained a fair look at this upexpected visitor
she rolled off her chair on to the carpet, and went into a fit
of screaming and crying, with her heels kicking on the floor.
The noise soon brought Mrs. Yarley and some of the servants
down to see what was the matter ; they did what they could
to compose her, and when she began to calm down she gave
them the information that she had seen a ghost. Mrs. Varley
told her that “ it was all nonsense, that it must be fancy, and
that only superstitious people believed in ghosts.” This was
rather a peculiar statement to be made by a medium ; it did
not quiet the poor girl, who went off into another fit of crying,
and did so occasionally during the whole of the next day; in
fact, her nerves were thoroughly unstrung, and it was with
difficulty that she could be persuaded to remain in the house;
after a few days had elapsed, however, the serious impression
gradually wore off.
A few days after this incident, Mrs. Varley was walking up¬
stairs, and saw the same woman standing on the top of the
first landing. She grew nervous, and thought, “ Well, I don’t
like your appearance,” so she turned back and went into the
drawing-room, after which she thought that it was foolish of
her as a medium to be afraid of a spirit. One of the younger
servants afterwards saw the same apparition, and later still
Mrs. Varley saw the woman standing one night in one corner of
her bed-room; she then walked up to the apparition with a
candle in her hand, and the woman vanished. On another
iso
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 12, 1875,
occasion she was walking from one room to another, across
the hall, with one of her nephews; the hall was lighted by
gas ; a slap came upon her back, which they both heard, and
which she felt; she turned round sharply, but there was no
one there, and she exclaimed, “ Oh, it’s that woman!” By
this time everybody in the house was getting nervous; it was
plain that some low spirit was haunting the place, and the
servants began to talk about giving warning.
A REMARKABLE SEANCE WITH MR. HOME.
Just at this time, one Sunday afternoon, I went to Fleet-
wood House, and Mrs. Yarley said she would have telegraphed
for me had I not have come, for Mr. Home was there, and she
wished me to have a seance with him, and no strangers pre¬
sent. This was the first occasion on which I ever met Mr.
Home in private; for some time previously, I believe, he had
been on the Continent. He proposed that a seance should be
held in the evening, and as accounts had been published of
the wonderful things he had done in the way of handling red-
hot coals, and putting a red-hot coal on Mr. S. C. Hall’s head
without burning him, the servants were instructed to make a
large fire of coal and coke in the nursery, in which our usual
seances were held; to that room we all adjourned after tea.
SOLID OBJECTS itoVING WITHOUT BEING TOUCHED.
We sat at a round table, which had a top of about one yard
in diameter, supported upon a central stem which branched
out into three feet at the bottom. The sitters consisted of
Mrs. Yarley, her maid, who was a medium, two of her rela¬
tives, Mr. Home, and myself. A three-light chandelier was
suspended over the table, so there was plenty of light, although
we turned it down a little to favour the manifestations. The
table began to swing as if it were suspended at the end of a
crane; it rested upon one foot, and, with its upper edge in
the air, rocked from side to side, so that the amount of
inclination of the top of the table to the plane of the horizon
was about 45°. Some cream-laid note paper which had
been placed upon it, on which to write down any messages
which might be given, began to slide down the inclined surface
of the rocking table, when Mr. Home said to the spirits, “ Can
yoh stop that paper from sliding ? ” Two raps came from the
table, meaning ” perhaps,” or that they would try. Soon the
paper appeared to be pinned by one corner, as if by an invi¬
sible finger, the table rocking more rapidly, and there was the
paper swinging also, and apparently fixed to the table by one
corner. Then I said, “ Can you take it up the table against
the force of gravitation ? ” Two raps again signified that they
Would try, and after a short pause, the cream-laid note paper
was seen travelling a foot or more up the inclined surface of
the polished table, under the eyes of all six persons present.
This is one of the prettiest examples of the abnormal move¬
ment of a solid object without contact with any human being
that I have ever seen.
REMOVING A TROUBLESOME SPIRIT.
Mr. Home next passed into the trance state, rose from his
seat, and went to a corner of the room, then he bent his arm,
and appeared to be talking to some invisible person leaning
upon it, with whom he walked across the room to the door.
He opened the door, and we could see into the passage out¬
side, for a gas-light was burning there. A thought flashed
upon the mind of Mrs. Yarley,. for she exclaimed, “ Oh, I
know what he’s doing, he is turning out that woman.” He ,
then went down on his knees in the open doorway, with his
face towards the passage, in an attitude of prayer, then he kissed
his hand and waved it once or twice as if signalling somebody
to depart, after which he rose from the ground, closed the door,
and walked towards us. After he had advanced two or three
yards from the door, three loud raps came from its surface ;
this seemed to startle him in his somnambulic state. He
paused as if listening, returned to the door, opened it, and
again went down on his knees in an attitude of supplication.
Once more he kissed his hands, closed the door, came towards
us, but again did the three raps greet our ears. Once more he
returned to the door and prayed ; he also placed his finger
upon his lips, pointing towards Mrs. Yarley with the other
hand, and shaking his head as much as to say, “You must
not go near her again.” Then he closed the door, and all was
quiet. On returning to his seat he said to Mrs. Varley, while
he was still entranced, “ She has gone now, and she will never
trouble you again.” “ I know it was very foolish of me to be
afraid of her,” said Mrs. Varley, “ but I prayed for her, and I
did all I could for her.” “ That made her all the more sympa¬
thetic, and gave her more power to keep near you, but we have
promised to give her what she wants, and she will never
trouble you again.” “ But who was she ? ” said Mrs. Varley.
“Well, she was a poor woman who broke one of nature’s laws
by committing suicide, and those who break the laws of nature
must pay the penalty. She thought that by coming to this
house she could get an opportunity of communicating with her
friends.”
The troubled spirit of the woman was never seen in Mr.
Varley’s house afterwards.
{To be continued.)
By an advertisement in another column, it will be seen
that a tea meeting, the proceeds of which will be applied to
help Mr. Cogman in spreading Spiritualism at the East End
of London, will be held next Sunday week. Mr. C. W. Pearce,
Mr. Joseph Freeman, and Mr. T. Blyton, are connected with
“ The Fire Re-Insurance Corporation,” also advertised in this
number.
Last Sunday night, at a private seance at which Miss
Showers was the medium, Mr. Henry Neville, who is an ex¬
perienced mesmerist, tried for five minutes to mesmerise the
materialised spirit Lenore, without producing the slightest
result. Miss Showers has been put into the mesmeric sleep
by three or four passes only. Mrs. Showers, Mrs. Neville,
and Mr. Harrison were also present at the secmcelast Sunday.
“ Inherited Meliumship ” is the title of the paper to
be read by Mr. Henry D. Jencken, M.R.I., F.R.G.S., Barrister-
at-Law, President of the “Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism,” at the rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston,
on Thursday evening, March 25th. It is anticipated that
there will be a full muster of members on the occasion. Mem¬
bers desirous of introducing their friends are requested to give
the honorary secretary a week’s notice in writing.
A fortnight ago we quoted from a Birmingham daily
newspaper, an official report of what the recorder himself
believed to be inexplicable facts, which were observed in the
presence of two secularists, who were said to be mediums,
but who have since denied themselves to be such. Sometimes
unprincipled American mediums have claimed their real
powers to be mere conjuring, but have been unable to show,
for any payment, how the effects were produced, although, as
a rule, they have been needy and avaricious people, excom¬
municated both by the public and by Spiritualists. We know
nothing about the two persons at Birmingham, have never
recognised them as mediums, and do not know whether they
possess medial powers or not.
Longfellow’s Inspiration.—Mr. James F. Fields
writes to the Harbinger of Light (Melbourne) :—“ Influx from
the spiritual world is universal, and the various productions
of mind and the phenomena of the sensible or natural world
are direct outbirths from that mighty theatre of causation,
lying just out of sight, yet immediately contiguous to our own
—the plane of effects. I extract an interesting account of
the origin of Longfellow’s Psalm of Life. The scene is a
bright summer morning in 1838, as the poet sat between two
windows at the small table in the corner of his chamber, in
Cambridge. The poem was a voice from his inmost heart,
and he kept it some time in manuscript, unwilling to part
with it. It expressed his own feelings at that time, when he
was rallying from the depression of a deep affliction, and he hid
the poem in his own heart for many months. He was ac¬
cused of taking the stanza, Art is long, and time is fleet¬
ing) from Bishop’s poem, but I happen to know that was
not in his mind, and that the thought came to him with as
much freshness and originality as if nothing had'been written
before. There is a reaper whose name is Death, crystallised at
once, without an effort, in his mind, and he wrote it rapidly
down, his eyes filling with tears as he composed it. The Light
of the Stars was composed as the poet looked on a calm and
beautiful summer evening, exactly suggestive of the poem.
The moon, a little strip of silver, was just setting behind
Mount Auburn, and Mars was blazing in tbe south. That
fine ballad, The Wreck of the Hesperus, was written in 1842.
A violent storm had occurred the night before. As he sat
smoking his pipe about midnight by the fire, the wrecked
Hesperus came sailing into his mind. He went to bed, but
the poem had seized him, and he could not sleep. He arose,
and followed the promptings of his inspiration, and that
thrilling and beautiful ballad is the result. It did not come
into his mind by lines, but by whole stanzas, hardly causing
him an xeffort, flowing without let or hindrance. ‘ The
clock was striking three,’ he said, ‘ when I finished the last
stanza,’ ”
March 12, 1875.
TM StiiltTUALigI
131
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
A Council meeting of the above society was held on Tuesday
night last week, at the house of Mr. Withall, No. 1, The Elms,
St. John’s-road, Brixton. Present Mr. D. G. Eitz-Gerald, Mr.
James Deane, Mrs. Rudd, Miss E. D. Ponder, Miss Withall,
and Mr. Arthur E. Rendle, Mr. Fitz-Gerald presiding. A
letter was read from' Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., declining the
presidency, as his time was too fully occupied, but signi¬
fying his wish to be proposed as an ordinary member.
Mr. Alexander Calder, declined the vice-presidency on similar
grounds. Mr. Rendle informed the meeting that expecting
that they would wish to, without loss of time, ally themselves
with the British National Association of Spiritualists, he had
prepared a letter to be sent to that body, which he read, and
which he suggested should be at once forwarded to the secre¬
tary, Mr. Algernon Joy. This matter was discussed at length,
and finally Miss Withall proposed that the letter be sent. Mr.
Fitz-Gerald seconded this. Mr. James Deane proposed that the
matter be allowed to stand over for further discus&ion. Mrs.
Rudd seconded the amendment, on which a division took place,
three for Mr. Deane’s amendment, and three against it; the
chairman (Mr. Fitz-Gerald) declined taking advantage of
his,casting vote, whereupon the matter dropped. A letter from
Mr. James Burns was read, to the effect that the Society could
have the use of his library, ten volumes at a time, for the sum
of £3 3s. per annum. It wa^ decided to subscribe at once.
The following were elected as a “ Rules Committee,” to
draw up the necessary rules, which are to be submitted to the
next council meeting :—Mr. D. G. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. James
Deane, Mrs. Rudd, Miss E. D. Ponder, Miss Withall, and
Mr. Arthur E. Rendle, with power to add to their number.
It was decided not to wait until rooms were obtained before
commencing seances, but that circles should be formed at
once, to be held at different members’ houses once a week.
Miss E. D. Ponder and Mr. D. G. Fitz-Gerald kindly volun¬
teered the use of their rooms for such purposes. The next
Council meeting will be held on Tuesday, the 16th instant, at
the house of Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, 6, Lo’fighborough-road
North, Brixton, at seven o’clock, at which the date of the first
general meeting will be- fixed. Members of the society who
would like to join one of the proposed private circles, will
please correspond with the honorary secretary, Mr. Arthur E.
Rendle, at the temporary offices of the society, 6, Lough-
borough-road North, Brixton.
Last week, in a report, it was printed that some <£ spirit
forms are mediums sometimes duplicatedthe sentence
should have read “the forms of mediums are sometimes
duplicated.”
Makriage.—On the 27th nit., at St. George’s, Biekley,
Kent, Alice Catherine, second daughter of William Charles
Laurie, Esq., of Lower Camden, Chislehurst, to Alexander
Montgomery Greene (late Secretary to the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism), of Castledine-road, Anerley-
park, S.E. No cards.
A Subscription list in aid of the Wallace Testimonial
has been opened at the rooms of the Dalston Association, to
which the attention of members and friends resident in the
neighbourhood is requested by the honorary secretary to the
Association. Tickets for the tea-meeting and soiree are also
obtainable at the rooms as above, as well as from other
agencies. See particulars in our advertisement columns.
Reception at Mr. Tebb’s.—Last Tuesday night, Mr.
and Mrs. W. Tebb, of Gloucester-gate, Regent’s Park, gave a
reception to Spiritualistic and other friends. The following
were the invited guests, and nearly all of them were present:
—Mr. H. D. JenCken, Miss Jennings, Miss Thompson, Mrs.
and Miss Kislingbury, Mr. A. Leighton, Mr. and Mrs. Wm.
Lewis, Colonel and Mrs. Lightfoot, Mr. Gerald Massey, Rev.
W. Stainton Moses, M.A., Mr. E. Myles, Mrs. Nosworthy,
Mr. and Mrs. Pearson, Mr. E. Rockwell, Mr. and Miss Shorter,
Dr. Stephens, Mr. and Mrs. Strawbridge, Mrs. Tappan, Mrs.
Richmond, Mr. J. Henry Tebb, Mr. Robert P. Tebb, Mr. Wm.
White, Mr. Agate, Mrs. Harvey, Mrs. Wood, Mrs. and Misses
Beeby, Miss Bennet, Miss Bideout, Mr. and Mrs. Bennet, Mr.
J. Calder, Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Campbell, Miss Clarke, Miss
Claxton, Mr. and Mrs. Coffin, Mr. Charles Coffin. Mr. Coster,
Mr. and Mrs. Conway, Mr. Griffiths, Mr. and Mrs. Weldon,
Mr. G. Thompson, Mr. Dawe, Mr. Dodd, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt,
Mr. Frazer, Mr. Godbe, Mr. Harrison, Sir Mattra Coomaro,
Mr. and Mrs. Hewitson, Mr. Hinde, and Miss Houghton. In
the course of the evening Mrs. Cora L. Y. j Tappan delivered
a short trance address, and inspirational poem, the subjects of
which were chosen by the listeners.
SOIREE OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The second conversazione of the season took place on
Wednesday, last week, at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-
street, Regent-street, London, and was attended by about
one hundred and fifty persons. Mr. Algernon Joy, who had
been announced as chairman, being unexpectedly detained in
the country, Mr. Martin R. Smith kindly consented to preside.
In addition to the London habitues, and members of the Asso¬
ciation, Dr. Hitchman, of Liverpool, Mr. J. N. T. Martheze
and Mr. Fritz Martheze, of Brighton, Mrs. Nosworthy,
of Liverpool, Mr. Stow, of Melbourne) Australia, and Mr.
Cort Yan der Linden, a barrister of distinction at the Hague,
who is now visiting England for the purpose of investigating
Spiritualism, were among those present. There was altogether
a large attendance, including most of the oldest and best
known metropolitan workers in the cause of Spiritualism.
Among the mediums present were Mrs. Tappan, Mrs. Corner
(Florence Cook), Miss Showers, Miss Kate Stokes, Miss Lottie
Fowler, and Mr. F. M. Parkes..
The musical programme included some high-class piano¬
forte playing by the Misses Withall, Haydn’s “ Spirit-Song,”
and “ Over the Sea,” by Miss Van Senden, an accomplished
singer, “ The Blind Girl to her Harp,” very sweetly sung by
Miss Maltby,, and several old English glees, by members of
the “ Euphonia Glee Union.” Mrs. Nosworthy recited with
muph feeling the “ Angel-Child,” an inspirational poem, by
Miss Lizzie Doten, and subsequently the comic piece, “ My
Lord Tomnoddy,” and Byron’s Apostrophe to the Ocean, from
“Childe Harolde,” all of which were received with great
applause.
Mr. Martin R. Smith said that he had been informed by
Miss Kislingbury, that Mr. A. Joy, who was to have presided
that evening, had been detained in Wales, so had asked him
(Mr. Smith) to take the chair. He (Mr. Smith) had en¬
deavoured to elicit from her what the duties of president
were, and he was sorry to say that he did not get very clear
information on the subject (Laughter), but those duties evi¬
dently did not include making a speech. A notice had been
placed in his hands that an attempt was being made in
Brixton to feorganise the local society, and that about thirty
members had already enrolled their names. He could only
say how glad he was to see that their friends in that locality
were once more banding together. He was pleased to see
Mrs. Tappan present that evening, and hoped she would say a
few words to the meeting.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan passed into the trance state, and
said:—Friends, We take the present^occasion to say a few
words which, perhaps, may be deemed inappropriate at a
festal or social gathering, but which, nevertheless, you may
profitably consider in connection with the great subject of
Spiritualism. It is about mediums, and the perfecting of
their gifts to advance the cause you all hold so dear. The
great complaint of the public is, that there are not suitable
mediums to whom they can come for information on Spirit¬
ualism. One of the objects of this Association is, that there
always shall be mediums protected for the sole purpose of
carrying on converse with the spirit-world. Thus far you
have no communion with the world of spirits without
the intervention of a medium; you will, therefore, under¬
stand the value of what we ape saying, and it is need¬
ful that in some manner the best gifts shall be culti¬
vated. The complaint is made repeatedly that mediums
used for tests are not always reliable; make them reliable,
place them above all temptation to fraud, make them under¬
stand that one genuine manifestation is better than nine hun¬
dred and ninety-nine wonders that cannot be well authenti¬
cated. Let all who have those gifts be so protected with the
sympathy, and the encouragement, and the wherewithal to
exist, that there shall not be the temptation to imitate falsely
any exhibition of spirit power. Mediums are human beings;
if you go upon ’Change, who will stand the severe test of the
application of the golden rule; or take the motto on Christian
temples, and apply it to the daily lives of the devotees within,
who will stand the test ? So unless mediums are endowed
with abnormal power to resist temptation, is it to be wondered
at if they sometimes simulate manifestations which cannot be
obtained in other, ways ? There should be a centre to which
Spiritualists all over the world should look, for the highest
and best authenticated forms of spiritual truth, and where
spiritual powers are sacredly preserved. Whatever spiritual
gift anybody may have, that gift is worthy of preservation,
because it may satisfy some mind which otherwise would
fflE spiritualist.
March 12, 18t5,
132
not have been satisfied of the reality of the after-life.
Our appeal now to you is to protect your mediums, to sur¬
round them with proper sympathy, for some of them spend
their lives in constant toil, in battling with adversity. They
have to endure the sneer of the sceptic, and if they have no
sympathy from Spiritualists, can scarcely be expected to be
above all kinds of temptation. See to it then that the best
influences surround those who, by their sensitiveness, are the
organs of communication between the two worlds, and see to
it that the avenues between the two worlds be kept free from
stigma. Be true. Guard well the sacred and priceless gift
which is given to you ; if it should convince but one soul that
there is a life beyond, it is worth every misfortune you may
have to endure. It is more especially on behalf of the indigent
and infirm that we speak to-night; since some of your kind
ladies are interesting themselves in one instance, why not es¬
tablish a fund for the benefit of those who, having spent the
best years of their lives in advancing Spiritualism, cannot sup¬
port themselves. We offer this aS a suggestion. To mediums
we say, “ Guard well the evidence you possess of spirit power.”
Among the articles exhibited were some interesting spirit-
photographs by Hudson, lent by Miss Houghton ; also some
by Buguet, lent by Mr. T. Slater; and a frame containing the
photograph of Mr. William Crookes and “ Katie King,” side by
side with one of Mr. Crookes and Mrs. Florence Cook-Corner,
showing the difference in the comparative heights of the
medium and the spirit when photographed at the same dis¬
tance from the camera; these photographs were lent by Miss
Kislingbury. The British Museum and the Boyal Society
possess nothing of deeper interest.
Under present arrangements it is intended to continue to
hold the conversaziones on the first Wednesday in every month,
due notice of each being given by advertisement and para¬
graph in this journal. We strongly recommend all friends to
avail themselves of the opportunity thus afforded them of cul¬
tivating one another’s acquaintance, and of keeping up a
friendly and social feeling, as well as of seeing and hearing
matters of interest to the Association, and to Spiritualism
generally.
Mrs. Everitt has received the following further amounts
in aid of the Wallace testimonial:—Mr. A. Joy, 5s.; Mrs.
Guppy, £1 Is.; B. C., 10s.; Mr. Keningale Cook, 2s. fid.; Mr.
B. Pomeroy Tredwen, 2s. fid.; Mr. W. Mannion, 2s. fid.; Mr.
N. Stokes, 2s. fid ; Mr. B. Gale, 10s.
ME. WALLACE’S SOIREE.
Tickets for mr. Wallace’s soiree, price
Is. 6d. each, may be obtained of Mrs. Partes, 6, Gaynes Park-
terrace, Grove-road, Bow, E.; Mr. Thomas Blyton, Secretary to the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.;
Mr. Towns, 1, Albert-terrace, Barnsbury-road, N.; Mrs. Everitt, Lilian-
villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.AV.; Mrs. Bullock, 19, Church-street,
Islington, N.; Mr. R. Oogman, IS, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End", E.; Mr.
Hunt, Secretary to the Marylebone Spiritual Association, 47, East-street,
Baker-street,VW.; Mr. Barber, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington, N.; or of the
Hon. Treasurer, Mr. H. Bielfeld, 208, JLuston-road, or of the Secretaries,
Mr. J. Burns, 15, Routhampton-row, and Mr. J. W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road,
Camden Town, N.W. The soiree will be held on the 1st of April, at the
Co-opeiative Hall, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
A TEA MEETING in aid of Mr. R. Cogman’s work
for Spiritualism at the Eafct End, will be held at 15, St. Peter’s-
road, Mile End-road, E., on Sunday, March 21st, at five o'clock. Tickets
One Shilling each.
FIRE RE - INSURANCE CORPORATION,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL £200,000 (FIRST ISSUE, £100,000),
Divided into 20,000 shares of £10 each, half of which will be payable as
follows, viz.:—£1 deposit on application, £2 on allotment, and £2 in four
months after allotment. It is not expected that any further calls will
at any time he made, and in no event can they he made in larger sums
than £1 per share, orat intervals of less than three months.
The Directors invite subscriptions for 2,250 shares (£22,500) in the Capital
Slock of the Company, the same being a portion of that part of the first
issue which yet remains for allotment.
The Directors of the Fire Re-Insurance Corporation, Limited, in inviting
Subscriptions for the Shares mentioned above, deem it desirable to state
that:—
Each one of them, before joining the Board of the Corporation, made
bona fide application for Five Hundred Pounds’ worth of Shares, paying for
the same in the manner required in the Prospectus.
Since becoming Directors of the Corporation they have each (by subscrib¬
ing the sum of One Thousand Pounds to the Corporation’s Guarantee Fund)
increased their financial interest in the Corporation to the sum of One Thou¬
sand Five Hundred Pounds.
Every Share issued by the Corporation has been allotted upon bona fide
applications only. Not one Share has been given away.
DIRECTORS.
"Wyndham H. N. Hoste, Esq., 7, New-square, Lincoln’s Inn.
Frederick Perigal, Esq. (late Admiralty), Chalcots, Belsize Park, N.W.
John Tapson, Esq., Brighton.
"William Power Trench. B sq., Ealing, W. .
W. L. Williams, Esq. ("W. Williams and Son, Bread-street, E.C.)
Bankers—London and County Bank (and Branches), Lombard-street,
London, E.C.
Solicitors—Learoyd and Leaioyd, Albion Chambers, Moorgate-street,
London, E.C., and Huddersfield, Yorkshire
Auditor—W. G. Goodliffe, Esq. (late Accountant-General, India Office),
149, Palmers ton-buildings, Old Broad-street, E.C.
General Managers—G. W. Pearce, F.S.S., and Joseph Freeman.
Head Offices—2, Queen’s-buildings, Mansion House, London, E.C.
Agencies—Manchester, Glasgow, Amsterdam, and Vienna.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
This Corporation has been formed for the purpose of transacting the
business of “ Re-Insurance” with Fire Insurance Companies.
Re-Insurance is a guarantee given by one Fire Insurance Company to
another to pay to it, in consideration of receiving a proportionate amount
of the premium, a portion of any loss it may incur under such of its policies
as are covered by the guarantee.
The remunerative nature of the business of carefully managed Fire
Insurance Companies is well-known to their Shareholders.
The returns made by order of Parliament, and other official documents,
show that their aggregate annual premium income always exceeds by a
large amount the sums paid for claims.
The following summary, compiled from the published returns in 1873, of
72 companies, strikingly exhibits this profitable working:—-
No.
Companies.
Income for
one year.
Claims
Paid.
Excess of
■ Income
over
Claims.
British 
United States 
Continental  
£
5,404,825
5,337,811
5,170,768
2,938,141
2,681,029
2.327,048
£
2,466,684
2,656,782
2,843,720
Balance available for dividend and expenses, £7,967,189.
The business of the Corporation being to re-issue a portion of the surplus
business of such companies, and receiving from them a premium income
exactly proportionate to the amount of business re-insured, it will share
proportionately in their profitable working.
The Corporation is already transacting a satisfactory and steadily increas¬
ing business;'its premium income for the year 1875-6 being expected to
exceed £20,000.
The rate of profit that may be fairly anticipated is shown in the following
Table of the business position of the undermentioned Re-Insuranoe Com¬
panies. The Dividends paid by these for the last two years average 17J-
and 22 per cent, respectively.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
mHOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, stationer, cir-
JL CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Association, Seances, &c., to- be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL B00K-
• SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Stnallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publication.
Established 1842.
Name.
Premium
Income.
Excess of
Premium
Income
Over
Claims
Paid.
Dividends
Paid Last
2 Years of
Return.
Alliance of Vienna.
Security......  
Swiss   .' 
Vienna  
Magdeburg  
Pannouia   
Frankfurter 
Aachen 
Cologne  
£
86,636
247,272
37,022
97,253
114,504
115,808
25,064
31,244
82,572
£
61,404
142 632
14,667
66,609
41,287
63,597
11,498
12,827
37,585
m
33j
20
20
14
26§
13
41 i
12
The Formation Expenses of the Corporation were unusually small, and
no Promotion Money has been paid.
Applications for Shares will be received at the London and County Bank,
Lombard Street, London, E.C,, or at any of its branches; or at the Offices
of the Corporation.
March 12i, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
‘ISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTS, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs confaected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-squaro, W.O.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
Ss.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
ANNIE EVA FAY has the honour to announce that
she will resume her LIGHT and DARK SEANCES on Tuesday,
Thursday, and Saturday Evenings, at 8 o’clock, at her Residence, 21,
Princes-street, Hanover-square, W. She is also prepared to give seances at
the private residences of the nobility and gentry.
Annie eya fay’s extraordinary light
and DARK SEANCES, Tickets, 10s. each, may be had of Mrs. Fay,
21, Princes-street, Hanover-square; also at Mitchell’s, 33, Old Bond-street;
Ollivier, 38, Old Bond-street; Bubb, 167, New Bond-street; Lacon and
Olliver, 168, New Bond-street; and all agents.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing, Clairvoyance, • or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays,, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, RusseU-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDLER (30 Wears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENT^ from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
n application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM,' answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
'R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
ad, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD.AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. .References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armflel'd, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
Messrs, harry bastian and malcolm
TAYLOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums, from America.—
PARLOUR SEANCES every evening except Tuesday, Friday, and
Sunday, at 2? Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square. Tickets, 5s. each; hour
8 o’clock. For private searaces, address as above.
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK and SADLER, TRANCE and PHYSI¬
CAL MEDIUMS, are OPEN to ENGAGEMENTS in any part of
the Country, for Private or Public Seances. Terms, as per arrangements.
/Seances (when at home), Wednesday, 2s. 6d.; Saturday, 5s. Address, No.
1a, Nelson-terrace, Cardiff.
Trance mediumshtp for family business
and Other Tests, Healing or Development, by Spirit Mesmerism, &c.
Mr. Olive, 49, Belmont-street, Chalk Farm-road, N.W. Six years practice.
Terms—21s. per private seance.
A public seance at above address on Tuesday evepings, at 1 o’clock,
admission 2s. 6d. Also at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, on Mondays
at 3 p.m.
Fparkes, spiritualist PHOTOGRAPKEB.
© Sittings a la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting, Address, 6, Gay.ies Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W,
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
ArmSeld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice, D;D, 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road,,St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1,'Earlham-road-terrace, Norwieh.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond. G„ M.S. Tel.E, 6, .Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. &., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-streiet, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, JVe’oster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton,
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W«
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bays water, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Nosworthy, Mrs. F. A., Birmingham.
Noyes, T. Herbert, Jun., J.P., Olub-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton,George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, VersaiOes-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
. Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, IX H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tem.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M-. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Bardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor {Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs 'Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne,- Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C instant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia-
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranbsa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rqe de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris,
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.)
iv THE SFIBITUALIST. March 12, 1875.
EYIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERYES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
, The London Dialectical Society, Adam'-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Eobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. HiHier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq,, B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D.Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, ^with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls or the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain^by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
Bitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitterS breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower-spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be-put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have'all the virtues and all the failings of. spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations aro bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks'of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. O. F. Varley, C.E., F.B.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H .
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox, London-. Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.B.I., Barris-
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr.C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of T'he Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
or enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOB THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITEEATUBE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the .principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c , &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 61. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORfiE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian\Academy of Science, Ac.
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
THE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC INSTI¬
TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 1 a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. Coates, principals.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman,
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy Svo.
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
WRITING. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the'other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forthalso the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden,
borg, aged 80. >
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane Loudon E.C,
