A F^ECOF^D Of THE
PROQREff Of THE JSCIEfCE /ND ETHICf OF fPIflTU/OJfM.
No. 14.—Yol. I. LONDON: SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1870.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF RELIGIONS AMONG
SAVAGES.*
BY SIR JOHU LUBBOCK, BART., M.P., F.R.S., PRESIDENT OF
THE DIALECTICAL SOCIETY.
Even those who consider that man was civilised from
the beginning, and look upon savages as the degenerate
descendants of much superior parents, must still admit
that our ancestors were once mere savages, and may find
therefore much interest in this study; but it no doubt
appears far more important to those who think, as I do,'
that the primitive condition of man was one of bar¬
barism, and that the history of the human race has, on
the whole, been one of progress.
*-***• *
The religious condition of the lower races of man¬
kind is one of the most difficult, although, at the same
time, most interesting portions of my subject. It is
most difficult, partly because it is far from easy to com¬
municate with men of a different race on such an
abstruse subject; partly because many are reluctant to
discuss it; but mainly because, even among those
nominally professing the same religion, there are always
in reality great differences; individuals—as I shall
endeavour to show you is also the case with nations—
acquiring continually grander, and therefore more cor¬
rect ideas, as they rise in the scale of civilisation. Still,
as new religious ideas arise, they do not destroy, but are
only superinduced upon the old ones ; thus, the religion
of the ancestors become the nursery tales of their
descendants, and the old Teutonic deities of our fore¬
fathers are the giants and demons of our children.
It has hitherto been usual to classify religions either
according to the name of the founder, or the objects
worshipped. Thus, one division of the lower religions
has been into
Petichism, defined as the worship of material sub¬
stances.
Sabseism, that of the heavenly bodies, the sun, moon,
and stars; and
Heroism, or the deification-of men after death.
This and other similar systems are simple, and have
certainly some advantages, especially as regards the
lower races of men, and the lower forms of religion.
They are not, however, really natural systems ; there is
no real difference between the worship of the sun and
that of a rock or lake. No doubt to us the sun seems
a grander deity, but of the main facts on which that
opinion rests, the savage is entirely ignorant.
Moreover, Heroism is found among races as low in the
scale of civilisation as either Fetichism (in the above
definition, which however I do not adopt) or Sabseism,
and indeed the three forms of religion indicated above
may coexist in one people, and even in the same indi¬
vidual. The true classification of religions should, as it
seems to me, rest, not on the mere object worshipped,
but on the nature and character ascribed to the Deity.
It is a much disputed question, into which I will not
now enter, whether the lowest races have any religion
or not. However this may be, it is at least clear that
the religion of the lower savages is very unlike that of
most advanced races. Indeed, in many respects it is
the very opposite. Their deities are evil, not good;
they may be forced into compliance with the wishes of
man; they require bloody, and rejoice even in human,
sacrifices; they are mortal, not immortal; part of
nature, not the creators of the world ; they are to be
•approached by dances rather than by prayers; and
•often approve of vice rather than of what we esteem as
virtue. The ideas of religion among the lower races of
man are intimately associated with, if indeed they have
not originated from, the condition of man during sleep,
and especially from dreams. Sleep and death have al¬
ways been regarded as nearly related to one another.
Thus, in classical mythology, Somnus, the god of sleep,
and Mors the god of death, were both fabled to have
been the children of Nox, the goddess of night. So,
also, the savage would naturally look on death as a kind
of sleep, and would expect and hope—hoping on even
against hope-r—to see his friend awake from the one as
he had often done from the other. Hence, probably,
one reason for the great importance ascribed to the
treatment.of the body after death.
* A portion of a lecture on “ Savages," delivered at Liverpool on the
I7th September, 1870, to working men and women, under the auspices of
the British Association for the Advancement of Science. Professor Huxley
presided at the Lecture.
But what happens to the spirit during sleep? The
body lies lifeless, and the savage not unnaturally con¬
cludes that the spirit has left it. In this he is con¬
firmed by the phenomena of dreams, which consequently
to the savage have a reality and an importance which
we can scarcely appreciate. During sleep the spirit
appears to desert the body, and, as in our dreams, we
seem to visit other countries and distant regions, while
the body remains as it were lifeless ; the two phenomena
were naturally placed ’side by side, and regarded as the
complements one of the other.
Hence the savage considers the events in his dreams
as real as those which happen when he is awake, and
hence he naturally feels that he has a spirit which can
quit the body—if not when it likes, at least under
certain circumstances. Thus, Burton states, that, ac¬
cording to the Jorubans,a Western African tribe, “dreams
are not an irregular action and partial activity of the
brain, but so many revelations from the spirits of the
departed.” So strong, again, was the North American
faith in dreams, that on one occasion, when an Indian
had dreamt that he was taken captive and tortured, he
induced his Iriends to make a mock attack upon him,
and actually submitted to very considerable suffering, in
the hope that he would thus fulfil his dream.
The Greenlanders also believe in the reality of
dreams, and think that at night their spirit actually
goes hunting, visiting, courting, find so on. It is of
course obvious that the body takes no part in these noc¬
turnal adventures, and hence it is natural to conclude
that they have a spirit which can quit the body.
Lastly, when they dream of their departed friends or
relatives, savages firmly believe that they are visited by
the. spirits of the dead, and hence believe, not indeed in
the immortality of the soul, but in the existence of a
spirit which survives, or may survive the body.
Again, savages are seldom ill; their sufferings gene¬
rally arise from wounds, their deaths are generally
violent. As an external injury received, say, in war,
causes pain, so when they suffer internally, they attri¬
bute it to some enemy within them. Hence, when an
Australian, perhaps after too heavy a meal, has his
slumbers disturbed, he is at no loss for an explanation,
and supposes that he has been attacked by some being
whom his companions could not see.
This is well illustrated in the following passage from
Captain Wilkes’ Yoyage: “ Sometimes,” he says, “ when
the Australian is asleep, Koin, as they call this spirit,
seizes upon one of them and carries him off. The person
seized endeavours in vain to cry out, being almost
strangled. At daylight, however, Koin departs, and
the man finds himself again safe by his own fireside.”
Here it is evident that Koin is a personification of the
nightmare.
In other cases, the belief that man possesses a spirit
seems to have been suggested by the shadow. Thus,
among the Feejeans: “ Some,” says Mr. Williams,
“ speak of man as having two spirits. His shadow is
called the ‘ dark spirit,’ which they say goes to Hades.
The other is his likeness reflected in water or a looking-
glass, and is supposed to stay near the place in which a
man dies. Probably, this doctrine of shadows has to do
with the notion of inanimate objects having spirits.
I once placed a good-looking native suddenly before a
mirror. He stood delighted. ‘ Now,’ said he softly,
‘ I can see into the world of spirits.’ ”
But though spirits are naturally to be dreaded, on
various accounts, it by no means follows that they
should be conceived as necessarily wiser or more power¬
ful than man. Of this our spirit-rappers and table-
turners afford us a familiar illustration. So, also, the
natives of the Nicobar Islands put up scarecrows round
their villages to frighten away hostile spirits. The
natives of Kamskatka insult their deities if their wishes
are unfulfilled. They even feel a contempt for them:
“ If Kutka,” they say, “ had not been stupid, would he
have made inaccessible mountains, and too rapid rivers?”
The Lapps made images of their gods, putting each in a
separate box, on which was written the name of the
deity, so that each might know its own box.
The Kyoungtha of Chittagong are Buddhists. Their
village temples contain a small stand of bells, and an
image of Boodh, which the villagers generally worship
morning and evening; j® first,” as Captain Lewin states,
“ ringing the bells to let him know they are there.”
The Sinto temples of the Sun Goddess in Japan also
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence.
contain a bell, intended, as Bishop Smith tells us, “ to
arouse the goddess, and to awaken her attention to the
prayers of her worshippers.”
Casalis states, that when a Kaffir is on a marauding
expedition, he gives utterance to those cries and hisses
in which cattle-drivers indulge when they drive a herd
before them, thinking in this manner to persuade the
poor divinities of the country they are attacking, that
he is bringing cattle to their worshippers, instead of
coming to take it from them.
Many other illustrations might be given, but these
are sufficient to show how low and degraded is the
savage conception of the Divine nature. Gradually,
however, as the human mind expands, it becomes
capable of higher and higher realizations.
I will now describe very shortly the religions of some
savage races, beginning with the lowest, which may be
called Animism.
The religion of the Australian, if it can be so called,
consists of a belief in the existence of ghosts, or spirits,
or, at any rate, of evil beings who are not mere men.
This belief cannot be said to influence them by day,
but it renders them very unwilling to quit their camp¬
fire by night, or to sleep near a grave. They have no
idea of creation, nor do they use prayers; they have
no religious forms, ceremonies, or worship. They do
not believe in a supreme Deity, or in the immortality of
the soul, nor is morality in any way connected with
their religion. An interesting account of the religious
condition of the northern natives has been given by a
Mrs. Thomson, a Scotchwoman, who was wrecked on
that coast, and lived alone with the natives for nearly
five years, when she was rescued by an English ship.
The Australians all over the continent have an idea
that when the blacks die, they turn into whites.
Mrs. Thomson herself was taken for the ghost of a
woman named Giom, and when she was teased by the
children, the men would often say, “ Leave her alone,
poor thing, she is nothing, only a ghost.” This, how¬
ever, did not prevent a man named Baroto making her
his wife, which shows how little is really implied in tho
statement that the Australians believe in the existence
of spirits. In reality, they do no more than believe
in the existence of men slightly different from, and
somewhat more powerful than, themselves.
FETICHISM.
The Fetichism of the negro is a step in advance,
because the influence of religion is much raised in
importance. Nevertheless, from one point of view,
Fetichism may be regarded as an anti-religion; for the
negro believes that by means of the Fetich he can coerce
and control the Deity. Indeed, Fetichism is mere witch¬
craft. We know that all over the world would-be-
magicans think that if they can obtain a part of an
enemy, or even a bit of his clothing, they thus obtain a
control over him. Nay, even the knowledge of the
name is supposed to confer a certain power. Hence
the importance which savages attach to names. Thus,
for instance, the true name of the beatiful Pocahontas,
a celebrated Canadian 'chieftainess, was Matokes; but
this name was carefully concealed from the English,
lest it should give them a power over her. For the
same reason, the Romans carefully concealed the name
of the patron saint of their city.
In other cases it was thought sufficient to make an
image to represent the original. Thus, even in the
11th century, and in Europe, some unfortunate Jews
were accused of murdering a certain Bishop Eberhard,
by making a wax figure to represent him, and then
burning it, whereby the bishop died. This, indeed,
was a common form of witchcraft.
Now, Fetichism seems a mere extension of this
belief. The negro supposes that the possession of a,
Fetich representing a deity, makes that deity his slave.
A Fetich, therefore, differs essentially from an idol.
The one is intended to raise man to the contemplation
of the Deity; the other, to bring the Deity within the
control of man. Aladdin’s lamp is a familiar instance
of a Fetich; and, indeed, if witchcraft be not con¬
fused with religion, Fetichism can hardly be called a
religion.
The low religions conceptions of the negroes are well
illustrated in the general belief that the Fetich sees.
with its eyes, as we do; and so literally is it the actual
image which is supposed to see, that, when the negro is
106
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1870.
about to do anything of which he is ashamed, he hides
his Fetich in his waistcloth, so that it may not be able
to see what is going on. Fetichism, strictly speaking,
has no temples, idols, priests, sacrifices, or prayer. It
involves no belief in creation or in a future life, and,
a fortiori, none in a state of future rewards and punish¬
ments ; it is entirely independent of morality.
TOTEMISM.
The next stage in religious progress is that which
may be called Totemism. The savage does not abandon
his belief in Fetichism, from which, indeed, no race of
man has yefi entirely freed itself, but he superinduces
on it a belief in beings of a higher and more mysterious
nature. In this stage everything is deified—stones,
rivers, lakes, mountains, the heavenly bodies, even
animals and plants. Yarious theories have been sug¬
gested to account for the origin of the deification of
such objects. I believe that it arose principally in this
way. A chief being named after some tree or animal,
say the Black Bear, or the Eagle, his family would
naturally take the same name. They would then come
to look on the animal after which they were named,
first, with interest, thefta with respect, and at length
with a sort of awe.
If we remember how low is the savage conception of
a deity, we shall see that the larger and more powerful
animals do, in fact, to a great extent, fulfil his idea.
In Australia, we seem to find the Totem, or, as it is
there called, the “Kobong,” in the very process of dei¬
fication. Sir George Grey tells us that each family
takes some animal or plant as its sign or “Kobong.”
Ho native will intentionally kill or eat his “ Kobbng,”
which shows that there is a mysterious feeling con¬
nected with it; but we are not told that in Australia
the “ Kobong ” is regarded as a deity. In America, on
the other hand, the Redskins worship their Totem,
from which they believe themselves to be actually
descended. This is especially the case with nocturnal
species, such as the lion and tiger. As the savage,
crouching by the side of his camp-fire at night, listens
to the cries and howls of the animals prowling round,
or watches them stealing like shadows among the trees,
what wonder if he weaves mysterious stories about
them, and eventually fancies them something more
mysterious than mere mortal beings.
The worship of the serpent is very prevalent. Its
bite, so trifling in appearance, and yet so deadly, pro¬
ducing fatal effects rapidly, and apparently by no ade¬
quate means, suggests to the savage, almost irresistibly,
the notion of something divine, according to his notions j
of divinity. There were also some lower, but powerful,
considerations, , which tended greatly to the development
of serpent-worship. The animal is long-lived, and
easily kept in confinement; hence the same individual
might be preserved for a long time, and easily exhi¬
bited at intervals to the multitude. In Guinea, where
the sea and the serpent were the principal deities, the
priests encouraged the worship of the latter, expressly,
as we are told, because offerings presented to the sea
were washed away by the waves, which was not the
case with those offered to the serpent.
It is somewhat more difficult to understand the deifi¬
cation of inanimate objects. In fact, however, savages
scarcely believe in the existence of inanimate objects.
Chapman mentions that the Bushmen in South Africa
thought his big waggon was the mother of his small
one. Hearne tells us that the North American Indians
never hang up two nets together, for fear they should
be jealous of one another, and that they prefer a hook
which has caught a big fish to fifty which have not
been tried. The South Sea Islanders not only believed
that their animals had souls, but also that this was the
case with inanimate objects. Hence, the savage broke
the weapons and buried with the dead, so that their
souls might accompany that of their master to the land
of spirits. Hence, also, on one occasion the king of
the Koussa Kaffirs, having broken a piece of iron from
a stranded anchor, died soon after, upon which the
Kaffirs immediately concluded that the anchor was
alive and Rad killed their king. Some such accident
probably gave rise to the ancient Mohawk notion, that
some great misfortune would befall any one who spoke
while crossing Saratoga lake. A strong-minded English¬
woman, on one occasion, purposely did so; and, after
landing, rallied her boatman on his superstition; but I,
think he had the best of it after all, for he at once
replied, that the Great Spirit was merciful, and knew
that a white woman could not hold her tongue.
We find, indeed, the worship of lakes and rivers, or
traces of it, all over the world. Even our own island
is full of sacred wells and springs, and Scotland and
Ireland especially abound with legends about water-
spirits. I have myself seen a well in Rossshire hung
round with the offerings of the peasantry, consisting
principally of rags and halfpence.
The worship of upright stones is also very widely
distributed. This form of worship has been explained
by M. Dulaure as arising from the respect paid to boun¬
dary stones. I do not doubt that, in the case of some
particular stones, it may have so arisen. The heathen
deity, Hermes, or Termes, was evidently of this cha¬
racter, and hence we may explain the peculiar and
apparently antagonistic peculiarities attached to him.
“Mercury, or Hermes,” says Lempriere, “was the
messenger of the Gods; he was the patron of travellers
and shepherds; he conducted the souls of the dead into
the infernal regions, and not only presided over orators,
merchants, and declaimers, but was also the god of
thieves, pickpockets, and all dishonest persons.’* He
invented letters and the lyre, and was the originator of
the arts and sciences. It is difficult, at first, to see the
connection between these various offices-, characterised
as they are by such opposite peculiarities. Yet they all
follow from the custom of making boundaries by up¬
right stones. Hence the name of Hermes, or Termes, a
boundary or terminus, while the name of the corre¬
sponding Roman deity, Mercury, is connected with the
word “ march,” or boundary, whence our title of mar¬
quis, meaning originally a person to whom was en¬
trusted the duty of guarding the “ march,” or neutral
territory, which, in the troublous times of old, it was
customary to leave between the possessions of different
nations.
These marches, not being cultivated, served as grazing
grounds; to them came merchants to exchange, on
neutral ground, the products of their respective coun¬
tries; here, also, for the same reason, treaties were
negociated. Here also international games and sports
were held. Upright stones were used to indicate places
of burial; and, lastly, on them were inscribed laws and
decrees, records of remarkable events, and the praises
of the deceased.
Hence, Mercury, represented by a plain upright
stone, was the deity of travellers, because he was a
landmark; of shepherds, as presiding over pastures;
he conducted the souls of the dead into the infernal
regions, because, even in the very early days, upright
stones were used as tombstones; he was the god of
merchants, because commerce was carried on mainly at
the frontiers; and of thieves, out of sarcasm. He was
the messenger of the gods, because ambassadors met at
the frontiers; and of eloquence, for the same reason.
He invented the lyre, and presided over games, because
contests in music, &c., were held on neutral ground;
and he was said to have invented letters, because in¬
scriptions were engraved on upright pillars.
Stone-worship, however, in its lower phases, has,
however, I think, a different origin, and is merely a
form of that indiscriminate worship which charac¬
terises the human mind in one phase of development.
Fire, again, is worshipped all over the world. In
ancient times it was far from being so easy to light a
fire as it is now that we have lucifer-matches and
various other appliances for the purpose. In some
parts of Tasmania and Australia the natives, if their
fires went out, preferred to go long distances to get a
fresh spark from another tribe, rather than attempt to
light one for themselves.
In somewhat more advanced communities, as, for
instance, in some of the North American tribes, and in
the familiar instance of Rome, certain individuals were
told off, to keep a fire continually burning. Thus
would naturally arise the idea that this fire was some¬
thing sacred .and holy. The name of the classical
goddess of fire, Yesta, or Hestia, means, literally, a
hearth.
The worship of fire naturally reminds us of that of
the heavenly bodies, and especially of the sun and
moon. When once the idea of religion had arisen, no
one can wonder that they should be regarded as deities.
To us, indeed, this worship seems to contain much that
is grand; and while many writers have refused to be¬
lieve it possible that man could ever really have wor¬
shipped animals and plants, almost all have regarded
that of the sun and moon as natural and appropriate.
Yet the sun and moon do not appear to have sug¬
gested the idea of divinity to the savage mind by any
other process than that already alluded to in the case
of animals. The lowest races have nevpr raised their
minds to the contemplation of the sun or moon as
deities. This worship commences only in the stage
above Fetichism—that is to say, as a form of Totemism;
but it reaches its greatest importance at a subsequent
stage of religious development. Before quitting Totem¬
ism, it may be well to observe that even objects most
inappropriate, according to our ideas, have been deified
by various races.
Thus, in Central India, the Todas are said to worship
a Buffalo-bull, pouring out libations of milk, and offer¬
ing prayers to it. The Kotas worship two silver plates,
which they regard as husband and wife. ' They have
no other deity. The Kinumbas worship stones, trees,
and ant-hjlls. The Toreas, another neighbouring hill
tribe, worship especially a gold nose-ring, which pro¬
bably once belonged to one of their women. Many
other inanimate objects have also been worshipped;
Debrosses mentions an instance of a King of Hearts
being made into a deity.
The South Sea Islanders, who represent a distinctly
higher phase of civilisation than the hill tribes of
Hindostan, or the Red Indians of North America, pre¬
sent us also with a higher form of religion. Their
deities are conceived as more powerful. In many
islands there are traditions of a powerful being who
raised the land from below the waters, and in Tonga
until lately, it is said that the very hook was shewn
with which this was effected; still the deities cannot be
regarded as creators, because both earth and water
existed before them. Neither was the religion of the
South Sea Islanders connected with morality. Their
deities were not supposed to reward the good, or to
punish the evil. In the Tonga and other islands the
common people were not supposed to have souls at all.
In Tahiti the natives believed in a future life, and even
in the existence of separation between the spirits, some
going to a much happier place than others. This, how¬
ever, was not considered to depend on their conduct
during life, but on their rank—the chiefs going to the-
happier, the remainder of the people to the less desirable
locality.
The Feejeeans believe that, as they die, such will be-
their condition after death. Moreover, the road to
mbulu, or heaven, is long and difficult; many souls
perish by the way, and no diseased or infirm person
could possibly succeed in overcoming all the dangers of
the road. Hence, as soon as a man feels the approach
of old age, he notifies to his children that it is time for
him to die. A family consultation is then held, a day
appointed, and the grave dug. Mr. Hunt gives a.
striking description of such a ceremony once witnessed
by him. A young man came to him and invited him to-
attend his mother’s funeral, which was just going to
take place. Mr. Hunt accepted the invitation, and
joined the procession, but was surprised to see no corpse.
He asked where the mother was, when the young man
pointed out his mother, who, in Mr. Hunt’s words, was
walking along “ as gay and lively as any of those
present.” When they arrived at the grave, she took
an affectionate farewell of her children and friends, and
then cheerfully submitted to be strangled.
So general, indeed, was this custom in the Fejee
Islands, that in many villages there were literally no
old people, all having been put to death ; and, if we are-
shocked at the error which led to such dreadful results,
we may at least see something to admire in the firm
faith with which they acted up to their religious belief.
It will be observed, that up to this stage, religion is
entirely deficient in certain characteristics with which it
is generally regarded as intimately [associated. The
deities are mortal, they are not creators ; no importance
is attached to true prayers ; virtue is not rewarded, nor
vice punished; there are no temples, or priests; and
lastly, there are no idols.
Up to this stage, indeed, we find the same ideas and
beliefs scattered throughout the whole world, among
races in the same low stage of mental development.
From this point, however, differences of circumstance,
differences of government, differences of character, ma¬
terially influence the forms of religious belief. Natives
of cold climates regard the sun as beneficent, those of
the tropics consider him as evil; hunting races worship
the moon, agriculturists the sun ; ' again, in free com¬
munities, thought is free, and consequently progressive;
despots, on the contrary, by a natural instinct, endea¬
vour to strengthen themselves by the support of spiritual
terrors, and hence favour a religion of sacrifices and of
priests, rather than one of prayer and meditation.
Lastly, the character of the race impresses itself on
the religion. Poetry especially exercises an immense
influence, as for instance has been well shown by Max
Muller and Cox to have been the case with the Greeks,
the names of the Greek gods reappearing in the earlier
Yedic poetry as mere words denoting natural objects.
Thus Dyaus in ancient Sanscrit means simply the sky,
and the expression the “ sky thunders,” meant originally
no more than it does with us. The Greeks and Romans,
however, personified Dyaus or Zeus; thus they came to
regard him as a deity, the god of thunder, the lord of
heaven,—and thus built up a whole mythology out of
what were at. first mere poetical expressions. Time,
however, does not permit me to enter on this interesting
part of the subject. I trust, however, that what 1 have
said, shows that the opinions of savages as regards
religion differ essentially from those prevalent among
us. Their deities are scarcely more powerful than them¬
selves ; they are evil, not good; they are to be pro¬
pitiated by sacrifices, not by prayer; they are not
creators ; they are neither omniscient nor all-powerful;
they neither reward the good nor punish the evil; far
from conferring immortality on man, they are not even
in all cases immortal themselves.
Where the material elements of civilisation developed
themselves without any corresponding increase of know¬
ledge, as for instance in Mexico and Peru, a more cor¬
rect idea of Divine power, without any corresponding
enlightenment as to the Divine nature, led to a religion of
terror, which finally became a terrible scourge of
humanity.
KELIGIOX AND SCIENCE.
Gradually, however, an increased acquaintance with
the laws of nature enlarged the mind of man. He first
supposed that the deity fashioned the earth, raising it
out of the water, and preparing it as a dwelling-place
for man ; and subsequently realised the idea that land
and water were alike created by Divine power. After
Ocf. 15, 1870.
regarding spirits as altogether evil, he rose to a belief in
good as well as in evil deities, and gradually subor¬
dinating the latter to the former, worshipped the good
spirits alone as gods, the evil sinking to the level of
demons.
Prom believing only in ghosts, he came gradually to
the recognition of the soul: at length uniting this
belief with that in a beneficent and just Being, he con¬
nected morality with religion, a step the importance of
which it is scarcely possible to over-estimate.
Thus we see that as men rise in civilisation their
religion rises with them; that far from being antago¬
nistic to religion, without science, true religion is
impossible.
The Australians dimly imagine a being, spiteful,
malevolent, but weak, and dangerous only in the dark.
The Negro’s deity is more powerful, but not less
hateful. Invisible, indeed, but subject to pain, mortal
like himself, and liable to he made the slave of man by
^enchantment.
The deities of the South Sea Islanders are some
;good, some evil; hut on the whole, more is to be feared
from the latter than to he hoped from the former. They
fashioned the land, but are not truly creators, for earth
and water existed before them. They do not punish
the evil, nor reward the good. They watch over the
affairs of men; hut if, on the one hand, witchcraft has
no power over them, neither, on the other, can prayer
influence them—they require to share the crops or the
booty of their worshippers.
Thus, then, every increase in science—that is, posi¬
tive and ascertained knowledge in science—brings with
it an elevation of religion.
Nor is this progress confined to the lower races.
Even within the last century, science has purified the
religion of Western Europe by rooting out the dark
belief in witchcraft, which led to thousands of execu¬
tions, and hung like a black pall over the Christianity
of the middle ages.
Yet, in spite of these immense services which science
has confessedly rendered to the cause of religion, there
are still many who look on it as hostile to religious
truth, forgetting that science is but exact knowledge, and
that he who regards it as incompatible with his religion,
practically admits that his religion is untenable.
Others, again, maintain that although science or
religion cannot indeed he at variance, yet that the
teaching of scientific men, or rather of some scientific
men, is in open hostility with religion.
What justification is there, however, for this idea ?
No scientific man, so far as I know, has ever been sup¬
posed to have taught anything which he did not himself
believe. That surely was their right—nay, their duty;
their ditty alike to themselves, to you—for their devo¬
tion to truth is their best claim to your confidence—nay,
to religion also, for nothing could be more fatal to
religion than that it should be supposed to require the
suppression of truth.
No, the true spirit of faith looks on the progress of
science, not with fear, but with hope, knowing that
science can influence our religious conceptions for good
only.
Whether, then, as some suppose, science is destined
profoundly to modify our present religious views, or not
—into which question I do not now wish to enter—no
one ought, on that account, to regard it with apprehen¬
sion, or with distrust.
Ear from it, we must be prepared to accept any con¬
clusions to which the evidence may lead; not in the
spirit of resignation of of despair, but in the sure and
certain hope that every discovery of science, even if it
may conflict with our present opinions, and with con¬
victions we hold dear, will open out to us more and
more the majestic grandeur of the universe in which we
live, and thus enable us to form nobler and, therefore,
truer conceptions of religious truth.
The time, then, has surely now come, when scientific
men need no longer stand on the defensive, but may
call on the State, which is now making a great effort
to establish a national system of education, and has
ever shown itself ready to assist in the prosecution of
scientific research—may call on the clergy, who exer¬
cise so great an influence—no longer to ignore in our
elementary and other schools the great discoveries of
the last thousand years, but to assist us in making them
more generally known to the people of this country;
confident that a better acquaintance With the laws
which regulate the beautiful world in which we live,
would not only diminish the physical evils from which
we suffer, and add greatly to the general happiness, but
also tend to develop our moral nature, to elevate and
purify the whole character of man.
Some lectures to working men and others, by Edward
N. Dennys, have just been published by Mr. Burns, 15,
Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C., price fourpence each. They
contain plenty of pure thought and good advice..
Me. Mokse’s public sean'ces are still held regularly every
Friday evening, beginning at eight o’clock punctually,
at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, W.C.; admission one
shilling. The proceedings are usually of a very interesting
character.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
PSYCHOLOGICAL AIDS TO GEOLOGY.
One of the most remarkable books ever issued from
the English press is Nature’s Secrets ; or, Psychometric
Researches. By William Denton, Lecturer on Geology,
Boston, United States, and Mrs. Elizabeth Denton.w
The work was originally published in America, under
the title of The Soul of Things, which book has passed
through many editions, and has a good sale up to the
present time.
Mr. Denton begins his book by quoting instances
how Hugh Miller and other individuals, at times, saw
busy scenes passing before their eyes, when they were
in darkness, and had their eyelids closed. He cites one
instance of this kind which was narrated by Professor
Stevelly, at the Leeds meeting of the British Associa¬
tion. Mr. Denton says that his attention was first
seriously directed to the psychometrical powers possessed
by human beings by the statements of Dr. Buchanan
in his Journal of Man, volume one, page fifty-four,
where he says :—“ Out of a class of one hundred and
thirty students at the Eclectic Medical College, Cincin¬
nati, forty-three of them signed a declaration that when
various medicines were enveloped in paper, so as not to
be known, by holding them in their hands from five to
twenty minutes, effects were produced upon them similar
to those which would have been produced by the action
of the same medicines administered in the ordinary
way. . . . When an emetic was the subject of the ex¬
periment, the individual was able to escape vomiting
only by suspending the experiment.’? It will be noticed
that one in every three of the persons tested proved to
be thus sensitive. Dr. Buchanan also stated that, about
two years after making his first discoveries, he found
individuals so sensitive, that the influence communicated
by the writer to a letter could be recognised by them
when the letter was placed in contact with the forehead,
and, in some cases, the character and habits of the
individual writing the letter could thus be given with
wonderful accuracy. There is nothing new in this latter
circumstance to Spiritualists; for this power is common
enough among mediums.
Mr. Denton adds:—
“ On reading the statements of Dr. Buchanan, I resolved
to see what portion of them I could verify by experiment. My
sister, Anne Denton Cridge, being highly impressible, was
able in a short time, to read character from letters readily ;
and what was still more wonderful to us, and at the same
time equally inexplicable, that at times she saw and des¬
cribed the writers of the letters and their surroundings, telling
correctly even the colour of their hair and eyes.
“ After testing this phenomenon thoroughly by numerous
experiments, being intensely interested in geology and
paleontology, it occurred to me that possibly something
might be done by psychometry in these departments of
science. If there could be impressed upon a letter the image
of the writer and his surroundings during the brief space of
time that the paper was subjected to their influence, why
could not rocks receive impressions of surrounding objects,
with which they had been in immediate contact for years,
and why could not they communicate the history of their
relationship in a similar manner to sensitive persons, thus
giving a clue to the conditions of the earth and its inhabitants
during the vast eras of the past ?
“ I accordingly commenced, some ten years ago, a series of
experiments with mineral and fossil specimens, and archaso-
logical remains, and was delighted to find that without
possessing any previous knowledge of the specimen, or even
seeing it, the history of its time passed before the gaze of the
seer like a grand panoramic view; sometimes almost with the
rapidity of lightning, and at other timfes so slowly and dis¬
tinctly that it could be described as readily as an ordinary
scene. The specimen to be examined was generally placed
upon the forehead, and held there during the examination;
but this was not absolutely necessary, some being able to see
when holding a specimen in the hand.”
Like Baron Heicbenbacb, Mr. Denton placed bis
sensitives in a dark room when trying his experiments,
and he found the results to be rather better when their
eyes were shut during the examination of the speci¬
mens. We will now quote from his book a few of his
experiments:—
“ A piece of quartz from Panama.
“ Examined by my wife, Mrs. Denton. Saw it, but knew
nothing respecting it.
‘“I see what looks like a monstrous insect. Its body is
covered with shelly rings, and its head is furnished with
atennse that are nearly a foot long. It stands with its head
against a rock that looks like this. I see an enormous snake
coiled up among wild wiry grass. The climate of the country
seems to be much warmer than this : the vegetation is
tropical.’
“ The animal seen was probably a land crustacean of kind.
The whole of the vision is evidently in harmony with the
tropical condition of the country from which the specimen
was obtained.”
Here is an experiment with a fragment of volcanic
matter:—
“ Fragment of lava from Kilanea, or Hawaii, one of the
Sandwich Islands.
“Mrs. Cridg'f-. Specimen unseen by her. She had nOidea
of what it was, nor that I possessed any such specimen.
“ ‘ I see the ocean, with ships sailing on it. This must be
an island, for the water is all around.
“ ‘ Now I am turned from where I saw the vessels, and am
looking at something most terrific. It seems as if an ocean
of fire were pouring over a precipice, and boiling as it pours.
The sight permeates my whole being, and inspires me with
terror. I see it flow into the ocean, and the water boils in¬
tensely. I seem to be standing on one side of it.’
I The feeling of terror produced by the sight did not entirely
* London, 1863: Houlston & Wright.
107
pass off for an hour. It seemed to be as great as if she had
actually stood upon the spot and beheld the whole scene.
“ Those who have read Mr. Coan’s account of the eruption
of Kilanea in 1840, will see the accuracy of the description.
The specimen of lava examined, which was not larger than a
hazel nut, was, I understood, ejected from Kilanea during that
eruption, when, as Mr. Coan says, ‘a river of fused minerals
of the breadth of Niagara, and of a gory red, fell in one
emblazoned sheet, one raging torrent into the ocean.’
9 There can be no guess work about such a description as
this. I am well satisfied that my sister ‘had not the most
remote idea of what the substance was that she was trying,
until the vision was presented to her view, nor indeed then ;
and it will be seen, in the result of experiments that I shall
present, that my knowledge had hothing to do with calling up
these images before her.”
Here are some experiments with fossil remains
“ Out of a number of minerals and fossils lying upon the
table, Mrs. Denton, with closed eyes, picked up one, no one
knowing its character.
“ ‘ I am in the ocean deep under water. I can see a long
way, for the water is clear. There are millions of minute
coral polyps busily at work. I am looking down upon them.
I observe one kind of coral that is very peculiar, it is a foot in
diameter at the bottom, and rises in terraces to the top where
it is much smaller. I should judge this specimen to be coral,
or something worked over by coral, though it feels nothing
like it.’
“ On examination it proved to be a piece of flat coral about
an inch long, and an eighth of an inch in thickness, from the
Niagara group of the Silurian formation, at Lockport, New
York.”
In the next experiment he tried:—
“A small fragment of the enamel of a mastodon’s tooth, cut
off so that it might not be recognised, being about one-
twentieth of an inch in thickness, and three-tenths of an inch
in diameter. The tooth had been dug up by miners in search
of lead, out of a crevice thirty feet beneath the surface, near
Harvel Green, Wisconsin. .
“ Mrs. Denton. She did not see it, and had no idea of
what it was.
“ ‘ My impression is that it is a part of some monstrous
animal, probably part of a tooth. I feel like a perfect
monster, with heavy legs, unwieldy head, and very large
body. I go A°wn to a shallow stream to drink. I can
hardly speak, my jaws are so heavy, I feel like getting down
on all fours.
“ ‘ What a noise comes through the wood. I have an
impulse to answer it. My ears are very large and leathery,
and I can almost fancy they flap my face as I move my head.
There are some older ones than I. It seems so out of keeping to
be talking with these heavy jaws. They are dark brown, as if
they had been completely tanned. There is one old fellow
with large tusks, that looks very tough. I see several young
ones : in fact, there’s a whole herd.
“ ‘ My upper lip moves curiously. J. can flap it up. It
seems strange to me how it is done.
“‘There 4s a plant growing here higher than my head ; it
is nearly as thick as my wrist, very juicy, sweet and tender,
something like green corn in taste but sweeter.’ (Is that the
taste it would have to a human being ?) ‘ Oh no,’ (appear¬
ance of disgust on the countenance), ‘ it is sickish, and very
unpleasant.’
“The complete identification at times, of the psychometer
with the thing psychometrized, or the animal with whose
influence it is imbued, is one of the remarkable facts de¬
veloped by our experiments.”
The following is another of many experiments made
by Mr. Denton, with reference to extinct animals :—
“ In the summer of 1861,1 obtained, a small fragment from a
slab containing the impression of two toes of one of the bird¬
like tracks from the Connecticut Yalley. It was but a mere
speck, not more than a quarter of an inch long and one-
twentieth of an inch thick; but it was quite large enough to
tell a wonderful tale.
“Mrs. Denton. Specimen not seen by her, and not a word
had ever been uttered in reference to my possession of it ; and
since we were in the Far West at the time of the examination,
she could have no idea of its original whereabouts. '
“ ‘ There is some magnetism * about this. I have a glimpse
of a long, broad, flat place, frequently washed by water;
it is sufficiently rolling, however, to prevent the water from
remaining on it. Whether it is the edge of the sea or not I
cannot tell, but there is before me a large body of water.
“‘I begin to get the outline bf objects moving, some on
this flat, and some among bushes that grow near there.
One that I see attracts my attention much by its great
singularity; it is, without exception, the strangest looking
being I ever saw. (When I go back so far, there is a
difficulty in seeing objects at a distance, which I think is
owing to the thick heavy atmosphere of those early times).
One of these animals is right before me now ; it has a rather
long small neck. A second one appears, with a flat head and
a neck tapering rapidly to it. The first one has a flattish head,
from that there is an angle to the back, and then another to
the tail. As it moves, its back rises and falls, and it looks as
if the arch of the back assisted in propelling it. Now I see
three other backs, but no other part. (I had a glimpse just
then of a turtle.) That animal I saw puzzles me; it seems to
be deficient in legs, though I cannot see them distinctly.
It goes very easily, though its motion is singular. Its legs
are short, and the angles of its body are not far from the
ground. It moves with a good deal of rapidity. It has flat
looking feet, wide enough for it to balance itself upon. It
has just two feet. There ; I know what it is now. It is that
two-foOted reptile I have read about. From foot to foot
it measures, I should think, about four feet.’
“ Second examination, made two days after, from a larger
portion of the same slab.
“ | Its head very much resembles in form the head of
a snake, and its neck is long and gracefully arched. Its
scapula is long, extending on each side of the neck a little
beyond its articulation with the humerus, which appears to
be on the under side. At first I thought the scapula pro¬
jected beyond the articulation, but I believe now that it is a
bone unifed to it by a joint, and connected with other bones,
that elevate what look like wings on each side of its body.
Lifting its fore feet it can sit upon its hind foot, assisted by
the tail; then, giving a spring, pass through the air for a
considerable distance. It does not seem.to move its wings
during the transit, but they act like parachutes in its descent,
and it comes gently down.
* Mesmeric inflnenee?-
108
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1870.
“' I cannot see any teeth; but in place of them appears to be
a bony gum. It is carnivorous, and feeds upon fish and rep¬
tiles. I can taste how sweet they were to it. It had a motion
of its head among the weeds in the water, like that of a duck.
There is something about it that resembles the opossum, but
whether it is marsupial or not, I cannot say.’
“ In another experiment, Mrs. Denton said :—
“ ‘ I see multitudes of objects. They swarm around me ;
there are fishes among them; they change rapidly. What
strange-looking animals there are here. This seems to be
the shore of the ocean, covered by the tide and then left
bare.
“ ‘ One animal I see with a very long neck ; it has wings,
but does not look like a bird ; the wings are bird-like ; but
the animal is, I think, a reptile. There are many of them
here, and they look like those I saw in Chicago, with a
specimen from the Connecticut Yalley. They have exactly
the same appearance.
“ ‘ I see another animal with feathered wings, but they are
the coarsest looking feathers I ever saw. One is very near
me, it is lightish-coloured with a reddish tinge. There are
many among weeds that grow in stagnant water, of which
there is a large body between here and the main land. The
head and neck are reptilian in form ; the mouth is large, and
the jaws are very different from the bill of a bird. I see one
drinking, but it does not raise its head to swallow as a bird
does. It sits up like a bird, but has a slimy appearance, not¬
withstanding its feathers, which are thin and wide apart;
they look stiff and unfinished. The barbs on the shaft are
widely separated, and the feathers look something like those
of a drowned bird. I see some of these animals in the air;
their wings are thick near the body, and gradually become
thinner towards the edges, where they are membranous.
“ ‘ Here is a large monster that looks as if it might devour
all these, but it is sluggish in its movements. It is a reptile,
with a head like a crocodile’s, but larger. It has enormous
jaws, large eyes, small neck, and broad shoulders. It is
looking at the other animals and crawling softly towards
them. It has a sly look. It is crested with an edge of thick
points all along the back. I feel as if I shall be swallowed
alive, with so many rapacious monsters around me.
“ ‘ I see another animal, with a tail of great length, that
curls round and round just like a snake. It looks like the
body of a serpent joined to the body of a lizard. It maybe
five or six feet long, but the body is not more than two feet.
I believe it could draw the head in and dart it out for some
distance. It seems like a link between the lizard and the
serpent. Its tail winds and unwinds rapidly, sometimes in
the air, and sometimes on the ground.’
“ The only thought manifested here is, on the one hand, to
devour, and on the other, to escape being devoured.”
Some time ago the Athenamm reviewed the American
edition of the valuable hook from which these ex¬
tracts are taken, and the chief point of the reviewer
was to question the existence of the author. Professor
"William Denton. In the preface to the English edition,
the publishers, Messrs, Houlston and Wright, of Pater¬
noster-row, are pledged to the statement that they
know Mr. and Mrs. Denton, and that both of them are
persons of “ unblemished character.” To clear up the
point raised by the reviewer, we sent to America for a
biography of Professor Denton, written and published
by Mr. J. H. Powell, Boston, United States, 1870, and
from it we condense the following sketch :—
THE CAREER OR PROFESSOR WILLIAM DEXIOX.
Mr. William Denton was born at Darlington, England,
January 8th, 1823. His father was a wool-comber, with three
other children, and the whole family were Methodists, in very
poor circumstances. When about ten years old other than theo¬
logical books came into the hands of William Denton, in the
shape of The Penny Magazine, The Saturday Magazine, and
Chambers’ works, and he acquired at this time a taste for
geology. At eleven years of age he worked for a currier at
Darlington, for half-a-crown a week, and he was afterwards
employed by a Methodist preacher in Darlington, a grocer, of
whose doings Mr. Powell’s pamphlet gives anything but a
flattering account, Denton afterwards became a teacher in a
school at Darlington, and at fourteen he was apprenticed to
Timothy Hackworth, of Shilton, to learn the trade of a
machinist; his evenings he devoted to the study of geology,
and he became a teetotaler. The making of the railway
tunnel at Shilton furnished him with a rich supply of fossils.
At the age of seventeen he began to lecture on Temperance
and Methodism, After a time he became very heretical as
regards Methodism ; he entered himself as a student in the
Normal Institute, Borough-road, London, and in six months
was appointed to a school in Newport, Monmouthshire. He
taught, lectured, and preached much, both in Newport and
Cardiff, and his mind verged towards Badicalism and
Unitarianism. It was dangerous work then to speak of
Teetotalism in Wales, and in doing so he was frequently
mobbed, as well as treated to dead cats and rotten eggs.
While he resided in Newport, he became acquainted with the
psychological works of Elliotsqn, Esdaile, and Ashburner, the
result being that he discovered by practical personal experi¬
ments that mesmerism was true, so he added it to his list of
lecturing subjects. Two years and a half of this work at
Newport, made him a host of friends and enemies, and at the
end of this time his father became bankrupt, whereupon he
sent for the whole family to Newport, and worked harder than
ever to support them. Soon afterwards he was dismissed
from the school for heresy, and the family in their distress
were helped by the Rev. G. Armstrong, Unitarian minister,
Bristol, at a time when they frequently made a meal on
cabbages alone. Denton, however, soon obtained a situation
as clerk under the South Eastern Railway Company, at Ash¬
ford; in Kent. Here he studied geology, fell in love with
Miss Catherine Gilbert, and began to be persecuted by theo¬
logians and ppliticians, for speaking that which he believed
to be true. Once he sent a bellman round to announce a
Sunday lecture on “The Hireling Ministry.” The church
minister told him he would lose his situation if he spoke, but
finding that he could not thus silence him, went to the
superintendent, and telegraphed to the railway directors. But
Denton mould lecture. A posse of special constables was
sworn in, and when Denton began to speak, standing upon a
chair, one of the constables pulled him off his chair by his
coat-tails. The other constables crowded on him and pushed
him along, till a friend drew him into his house, and asked
him to speak from the window. This he did, and for an hour
and a half held the crowd spell-bound witb that eloquence
which the minister wished to use physical force to stop. His
adversaries, however, succeeded in getting him dismissed from
his situation. The local superintendent said that he parted
from him with regret; he gave him an excellent character,
also a present; his fellow clerks likewise all made him pre¬
sents, and expressed their regret at losing him. He then left
England for America, as he wished to live in a freer atmo¬
sphere, where men are less persecuted for speaking that which
they believe to be true. In 1848 he landed in Philadelphia,
and became a teacher at the village of Jenkintown ; he rose
by industry, sent to England for his. father, mother, sisters,
and Caroline Gilbert, his affianced. Soon afterwards he mar¬
ried the latter, but a sad cloud soon overspread his happiness,
in the death of his wife. After various vicissitudes in life, he
became acquainted with Spiritualism, investigated it, found
it to be true, and added it to his list of lecturing subjects. He
became acquainted with Miss E. Foote, a damsel who believed
the present dresses of ladies to be expensive, uncomfortable,
and impediments to exercise, so she braved public ridicule and
the witticisms of street boys, by wearing the bloomer costume.
Mr. Denton married Miss Foote, and at the present time he
lives in a commodious house built under his own supervision,
on ten acres of land at Wellesley, Massachusetts, where with
his wife and five children, he loves to feel at home. He has
written many books, is known as a first-rate geologist, and
occasional!]'’ he gives standard public lectures on Spiritualism.
Once, when in ill-health, he walked eleven hundred miles on
a geological excursion to get well again, and in this pedes¬
trian tour he reached the shores of the Gulf of Mexico. On
this excursion he frequently became his own washerwoman,
using a friendlyriver for a tub ; he would often seek a retired
spot, wash his solitary shirt, and lie in the sun until it was
dry, till he became such an adept at the work as not to fear the
criticism of professionals. He once spent nearly two summers
in explorations in Tennessee and Colorado, during which time
he made discoveries of veins of bituminous coal, and brought
home the greatest number of fossil insects yet discovered in
America, details of which may be found in The Annuals of
Scientific Discovery. Smiles would do well to include the
name of William Denton in any future edition of Self Help.
There is some probability that a Spiritual Society will
shortly be formed in Islington.
Mrs. Hardin&e.—Mrs. Emma Hardinge has given
notice, in the United States, that she can accept no lecturing
engagements there after October; she will be in London early
in November, to aid the Spiritual movement here, during the
next winter season. The Echooi Dunedin, New Zealand, con¬
tains the following :—“A correspondent, writing to the Castle-
maine Representative, says that he (or she) ‘ understands that
several enthusiastic Spiritist gentlemen of Melbourne have de¬
cided to introduce to the colony the celebrated lecturess, Mrs.
Emma Hardinge, of the United States, and two mediums, for
the term of twelve months. The expense of this speculation
will be about 2,000Z., which has been guaranteed by several
wealthy and liberal Spiritists of Melbourne. Mrs. Hardinge
having lectured, and publicly answered questions in a clair¬
voyant state, in several of the principal cities of America, and
having just completed a successful engagement in England,
where she had large, respectable, and intelligent audiences, is
about to return to the States, and it is supposed that she will
be willing to accept the liberal offers made by the Spiritists of
Victoria,”
Lxin& Spirits.—An American newspaper, criticising
Spiritualism, says—“ So the case stands thus : We receive
certain communications from some intelligence hitherto un¬
known. This intelligence claims to be the spirit or spirits of
dead men. And certain 'phenomena are exhibited, certain
facts are communicated, which are supposed to be evidence,
going to show that these intelligences are what they claim to
be. But they will lie, they admit it themselves. And the
only argument we have to show that they would not deceive
as to their identity, is that ‘ they would not be willing to
deceive on that point.’ Why not on that ? They do deceive
on some points, and wh cannot assume that they may not on
all. So that the fact on which Spiritualism stands—the in¬
tercourse of men with the spirits of the dead—rests solely on
the assertions of ‘ lying spirits,’ assertions of spirits who have
lied, and who, for aught any one knows, lie when they say
they were once clothed with mortal flesh.” This passage was
read to the controlling spirits at the Banner of Light public
circle, in Boston, U. S., Mrs. J. H. Conant, medium, and the
following is the answer given by the spirits:—“ We have
something to say concerning it. In the first place, so long as
this life continues to send liars out through the channel
called death to the spirit-world, so long, in all probability, there
will be liars dwelling there; and as the great highway between
the two worlds is open for all—the saint and the sinner, the
liar and the truthful spirit—all can take advantage of the
means of return. This being true, you are as liable to enter¬
tain the liar as the truthful spirit. Society is at fault. It is
not the fault of the spirit-world that you get lies from that
world, but it is your fault. You teach them here to lie. In
all your social intercourse you teach lying. You foster and
nourish it as if it were a something upon which your lives
depended. How is it in your mercantile pursuits in life?
You never trade without telling, at least, a hundred lies ?
This is true. How is it with yOur politics ? You lie at every
turn you make. How is it with your religion ? You mock
your God with lies almost from your birth. Many of you say
with your lips that you believe in a hell, a literal hell of fire
and brimstone, while in your hearts you deny it. You claim—
nearly every Christian does—to be walking in the footsteps of
the meek and lowly Nazarene. There never was a greater lie.
You claim to be religionists after the old stamp of Christians, as
they came fresh from the hand of the meek and lowly Founder.
And here you lie. And so your whole system of ethics is a
system of lies. You teach your little ones to lie, unconsciously,
perhaps, but nevertheless the lesson is given them, and they
make large profit by it. They grow up in this school of decep¬
tion. The little child practises it. The young man and the
young woman practise it, and even the old man and the old
woman, who stand tottering at the brink of the grave, practise
it. How, then, can you expect that all in our life will be truth¬
ful spirits, since they enter the spirit-world precisely as they
were ? Thieves are no less thieves with us ; liars are no less
liars with us. Death does not change the spirit. It only
severs the connection between the spirit and body, and
sets the spirit free. If it has been brought up to lie here, it
will not forget its bringing up in the spirit-world. If it comes
back, the chances are more than equal that it will lie to you
on coming back. It is its native element, so far as its earth-
life was concerned. Time, circumstances, and the holy in¬
fluences of the spirit-world, must be brought to bear upon it
long ere it will outlive the shadow that has clustered
around it through its earthly life.”
Anti-Spiritualism.—Last month’s Scottish Congrega¬
tional Magazine contains an article headed “ Spiritualism—
What it is not,” written by Professor Austen Phelps, D.D.
He divides the article into four parts, thus ; 1. Spiritualism
isnot science ; 2. Spiritualiam is not religion ; 3. Spiritualism
is not good morals ; 4. Spiritualism, taken as a whole, is not
good sense. The article is a poor one, and feebly written ;
not half up to the level of the Rev. Flavel Cook’s lecture at
Kingston, against Spiritualism, printed in our last. When it
is a fact that solid articles are moved by some unknown
force, and that mysterious raps and blows throw the sur¬
rounding air into waves, so as to set up vibrations in the
drum of the human ear, what palpable nonsense it is to say
that such phenomena are out of the range of science. Another
long article in the same journal, headed “ Evil Times,” com¬
plains that for the last 1800 years the world has been grow¬
ing worse. Every intelligent person knows, however, that
1800 years ago we English were unpleasant, screeching,,
painted, murderous barbarians ; that 400 years ago we were
roasting each other in Smithfield, and torturing each other in
the Tower of London ; that ten years ago we were sending'
the police to seize the goods of our neighbours, to obtain pro¬
perty I to give to God and His house of course He was-
greatly pleased by such proceedings. As these things are now
gone for ever, does the Scottish Congregational Magazine wish
us to go back to them ?
Winter Soirees.—A statement was made in our last
number relating to the probable inauguration of winter soirees,
and we are now authorised to announce that Mr. Benjamin.
Coleman is making arrangements for conducting, under his-
presidency, a series of weekly meetings, to be held at the
Assembly-rooms, Harley-street, for the purpose of hearing
papers read upon Spiritualism and kindred subjects, and of
inviting discussion thereon. Some prominent scientific and
literary men have promised to take part in these meetings^,
and the eminent naturalist, Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.R.G.S.,
President of the Entomological Society, author of The Malay
Archipelago, Contributions to the Theory of Natural Selec¬
tion, &c., <fcc. will read the first paper, entitled, An Answer
to the Arguments of David Hume, Lecky, and others,
against Miracles. Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., will also aid.
These soireis will commence about the second week in No¬
vember, and will be conducted much in the same order as
those over which Mr. Coleman presided some three or four
years ago. . The first part of each evening will be occupied by
the reading of a paper and a discussion thereon, and the rest
by general conversation and friendly intercourse. Invitations
will be freely extended to leading members of the scientific
and literary societies of London. The expense of these soirees
will be defrayed by voluntary subscriptions, and their continu¬
ance throughout the winter will depend upon the liberality of
the subscribers. Communications upon the subject may be ad?-
dressed to “ Benjamin Coleman, Esq., 1, Bernard Yillas, Upper
Norwood, S.E.”
Spiritualism in Dalston.—A new society has been
formed under the name of “ The Dalston Association of
Enquirers into Spiritualism.” It says in its prospectus that
“ a desire for investigation being felt by many on reading or
hearing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, a few individuals
thought that if an association were formed, and investigation
instituted, the facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be demon¬
strated. Accordingly a preliminary meeting was called, and
this association formed on 15th September, 1870. Its purposes
are the collection of facts through its own circle, or circles, so
as to form a basis for an honest opinion, and by various means
to induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before
judging of the movement known as modern Spiritualism. All
enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary, Line Cottage, 74,
Navarino Road, Dalston, E.” The society has already enrolled
twenty-two members, and intends to make arrangements for
the delivery of public lectures on the subject in the Dalston,.
Hackney, and Kingsland districts. It is well managed, has a
good energetic secretary, and records of manifestations ob¬
served are drawn up in a regular and business-like manner.
Some partially developed mediums are among the members,
and already some of the ordinary table manifestations have
been obtained. The managing officials are — President,
Mr. J. Watts; Yice President, Mr. Thomas Wilks ; Secre¬
tary and Treasurer, Mr. Thomas .Blyton ; Recorder, Mr.
George Blyton ; Committee, Mr. James Baird, Miss Ellen
Luckhurst, Miss Eliza Luckhurst, Mr. W. Pawley, and Mr-
Job Sparey.
Winter Public Meetings.—Mr. John Jones, of Enmore-
park, South Norwood, informs us that it is known that there
are a great number of Spiritualists anxious to act on their
friends and the public, some by time, some by purse; but
their latent strength is not developed, for want of a methodi¬
cal organisation amongst Spiritualists. Intense interest has
been excited in and out of the churches by the published.
narratives of spirit-power, and the public crave for informa¬
tion. As this can be given without in any way interfering
with the theological “ isms ” in and out of the churches, it
has been decided that a series of public meetings be held in
the several postal districts; that those meetings be ad¬
dressed by men well known as having had experiences of
no ordinary kind, and as far as time will allow, they will
answer questions put by the audience. The committee of
speakers already consists of Messrs. S. C. Hall, D. D.
Home, H. D. Jencken, J. Jones, I. Perdicaris, and C. F.
Varley. There is also forming a press committee of equal
standing; gentlemen accustomed to literary duties, and
whose pleasure it will be to collect facts and forward
them to the metropolitan and provincial newspapers, with any
comments needed. To divide the labour, a third committee is-
forming, whose duties as a “details” committee will be, to
attend to the engaging of halls, finances, &c. Thus, the whole
movement will be conducted by three divisions of workers :
the speakers, the press, and the details committees. There
will be, say, three public meetings held in each of the postal
districts, so that the Spiritualists in the several districts may
heartily co-operate. Possibly, one or more central meetings
will be held, and then close the campaign by a Spiritualistic
soir&e at the Crystal Palace, or elsewhere. It is expected that
the meetings will be self-supporting, but to meet possibilities,
a guarantee fund of £100 has been suggested, so that if the
expenses exceed the income, the weight may fall on those who
are ready, by means of the purse, to supply their portion of
the needed energy. It is arranged that Spiritualism be intro¬
duced at the first public meeting in each district, by a lecture
on the “Blending of the Natural with the Supernatural,”
illustrated by dissolving views. The first of the series will
be held at the Assembly-rooms, 145, Gower-street, on Mon¬
day, the 14th of November, 1870, at 7.30 p.m., for the west-
central district.
Oct. 15, 1870.
109
THE SPIRITUALIST.
“ The Spiritual News,”
HE First Humber of The Spiritual News, pub¬
lished monthly, Price One Penny, will be issued
on the First of December next. The First Twelve
Humbers will be sent free by halfpenny post, to those
who remit the Publisher Eighteenpence in payment; or
three copies of each of the first twelve numbers free
by post for Three Shillings and Sixpence.
London : E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, E.O.
CHARGES EOB, ADVERTISEMENTS.
1. Advertiseme7its of Piiblic Companies, Half-a-guinea per sixth of a
eolumn, or every portion of sixth of a column.
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a column, or
portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—Advertisements at the foregoing rates willhe displayed” so as
to occupy the full space paid for, hut advertisements at the following rates
will be in closely set type
3. General Advertisements, Nalf-a-crown per first five lines or portion of
five lines, and Fourpence for every line in addition.
4. Situations fPanted, or Apartments to Let, One Shilling per first four
lines, or portion of four lines; Threepence for every line in addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or initial letters count
as one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement are paid for,
twenty per cent, reduction will be made in the above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertisement.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the Publisher, Mr.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's Church-yard, London, F.C.
C0 (tawspmtrmfs.
All leters should be brief and to the point, as the amount of space avail¬
able for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by letter only, ad¬
dressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allbn, Ave Maria-lane, St.
Paul's Church-yard, London, E.C. Until the Spiritual movement in Eng¬
land, together with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
be spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with the literary
work of The Spiritualist, but all letters will meet with careful considera¬
tion.
The Spiritualist is a periodical intended to give great freedom of ex¬
pression to all the different shades of opinion to be found among Spiri¬
tualists. There will therefore be very little uniformity in the ideas pro¬
mulgated in this journal, more especially in the correspondence columns.
Under these circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in Thb Spiritualist which he or she does not like, but the right of reply
remains. This freedom of thought given to others, the Editor claims for
himself, and those who do not like the contents of leading articles can write
against them in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought better
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a pale weak mediocrity,
by inserting only those contributions which please everybody. Thepreceding
remarks are not intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them here, for none
but those letters which are considered worth publication will be inserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in cotmection with Spiritualism should be
sent to the office several days in advance.
The first eighteen numbers of The Spiritualist will be forwarded regitr
larly by halfpenny post to subscribers, who remit five shillings and three¬
pence in payment to Mr. E. W. Allen, Publisher, Ave Maria-lame, St.
Paul's-churchyard, E. C. No notice will be taken of orders received unac¬
companied by a remittance.
When the day of issue chances to fall upon a Sunday, this journal will
be printed on the preceding Saturday, and published on the following
Monday.
The Spiritualist is registered for transmission abroad.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1870.
professor denton’s researches.
In another column are recorded some remarkable ex¬
periments by Professor William Denton, wherein psycho¬
logical powers are employed to unravel some geological
mysteries. Although the narrative of experiments is
thoroughly trustworthy, be it remembered that next to
nothing is yet known of those conditions which make
clairvoyance sometimes reliable and sometimes unrelia¬
ble. Therefore, while recognising the enormous value
that may possibly belong to the method of research, and
admitting the fact that pieces of rock consist of some¬
thing more than Dalton’s rigid atoms, judgment on the
reliability of the revelations themselves should be sus¬
pended, until more light, has been thrown by experiment
upon the question herein raised.
The Address of Mr. and Mrs. Guppy is changed ; it
is now 1, Morland-villas, Highbury Hill-park, London.
The Services at the Cavendish Rooms.—Last Sunday
evening, Mr. J. J. Morse, trance-medium, lectured under spirit
influence at the Cavendish-rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-
street. There was a large attendance, and Mr. Fabyan Daw
conducted the proceedings. The address given through the
lips of Mr. Morse, was of a very philosophical and high-class
character, and of much interest to the listeners. The subject
was “ The Social aspect of Spiritualism.” While Mr. Morse
is under control, the communicating spirits cannot see the
audience, in consequence, they state, “ of his clairvoyant
faculties, or spiritual sight, not being developed.” Last
Sunday they moved him about more than usual on the plat¬
form, and the result was that most of the lecture was delivered
while he stood sideways to the listeners, who were doubtless
supposed to be facing him. Mr. Morse will lecture under
influence at the Cavendish-rooms, next Sunday evening (to¬
morrow), as well as on several succeeding Sunday evenings.
The proceedings begin at seven o’clock, and there is a collec¬
tion at the close.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
TABLB MOTIONS WITHOUT CONTACT WITH HUMAN BEINaS—spirit voices—
SEEINO MEDIUM SHIP—TEST MEDIUMSHIP—FRUIT AND FLOWERS BROUGHT
TO THE CIRCLE.
Last Wednesday night a stance was held at the residence of
Mrs. C. Berry ; the members of the circle were Mrs. Guppy,
of 1, Morland-villas, Benwell-road, Highbury-hill-park ; Miss
Elizabeth Neyland, of the same address; Mrs. Berry; Mrs.
Olliver; Dr. Dixon, of 8, Great Ormond-street, W.C.; Mr.
Frank Herne, and Mr. Harrison. The stance was held in a
small room, where there was no possibility of anybody moving
about freely in the dark, without constantly coming into con¬
tact with furniture or the members of the circle. It was illu¬
minated with one candle, which, with a box of matches, was
placed in the charge of Dr. Dixon. The table was a light
round one, with a top about one yard in diameter.
The instant the members of the circle sat round the table,
it rose in the air whilst nobody and nothing was touching it;
it moved vertically up and down with a steady “pumping”
motion, rising steadily sometimes about a foot and some¬
times six inches from the floor. When the points of the
fingers of those present were placed on the surface of the
table, its motions were more vigorous, rnd it then rose with
ease sometimes till its feet were more than half-a-yard above
the floor. When the candlestick and lighted candle were
placed on the centre of the table, no perceptible difference in
the movements was observed. These manifestations lasted
about five minutes. Dr. Dixon then took the candle off the
table and blew it out, at a moment when the points of the
fingers of the other members of the circle were upon the top
of the table.
The instant the light was extinguished, the table rose
swiftly and steadily in the air, clear of the fingers, gently
tapped some of the members of the circle on the head with
its feet, and then was let down noiselessly into its place, all
within a few seconds after the light had been put out.
Then flowers, covered with dew, were showered upon the
table and those present, as usual in Mrs. Guppy’s mediumship.
By raps, Dr. Dixon was told to light the candle, when the
flowers were not only seen upon the table, but the heads of
Mrs. Berry, Mr. Herne, and others, were tastefully decorated
by them. With regard to this manifestation, Mrs. Guppy,
before the circle sat, expressed a strong desire to withdraw
with some of the ladies, and put on fresh clothes altogether,
as a proof that she entered the room with no flowers in her
possession. This desire was overruled, on the ground that it
would take up too much time, that the members of the circle
knew perfectly that they had not assembled to cheat each
other, that it could be done at another time before selected
witnesses, for the benefit of the public, and that it had been
done on previous occasions, at the house of Mr. S. C. Hall,
F.S.A., and of the Duchess of D’Arpino, as narrated in the last
number of The, Spiritualist. Later in the evening, apples,
as well aS flowers, were thrown upon the table, and the flowers
were arranged on the table in little heaps—one heap before
each member of the circle.
Once or twice, directly the light was extinguished, sofa-
cushions, and articles of dress and drapery, as well as a blan¬
ket which had been pulled out from somewhere in the room,
were deposited upon the sitters, who were found to be decorated
by them most elaborately and fantastically, when a light was
struck. In fact, the whole room was in confusion, and the
large cushion about four inches thick, and several feet long,
Which previously had been upon the bottom of the sofa, was
found with one end under the table, and the other curled over
the knees of Dr. Dixon. Dr. Dixon sat facing the sofa, and
the only way this large cushion could have reached him, was
by passing over the heads of those sitting opposite to him.
Then, in the dark, the spirit voices, which have recently
been developed in connection with Mr. Herne’s mediumship,
made themselves heard now and then, in short sentences,
with considerable intervals between each sentence, as if the
manifestations were produced with difficulty. The speakers
seemed from the sounds, to be floating above the heads of
those present. One of the voices, said to be that of a deceased
sailor, was a powerful roar of a startling character ; such a
volume of sound and wind could not have come from the
lungs of any mortal in the- flesh present in the room.
While the voices were speaking from somewhere above the
table, and while Mr. Herne, in a sleepy or semi-trance state,
was passively resting his head on Mr. Harrison’s shoulder, Dr.
Dixon, without instructions, suddenly struck a light. A deep
voice, which came from Mr. Herne’s left side, exclaimed
at the same instant “ Put out that light,’’ and Mr. Heme
sprang up with a cry of pain, and said that he felt “ as if his
heart had been cut out.” The company were startled by this
painful incident, but Mr. Herne was speedily restored to his
normal condition, by some mesmeric passes made over him by
Mrs. Berry at his request.
At another part of the dark sta/nce, Mr. Herne stood up in
front of his chair, and Mr. Harrison placed his hand on him
while he so stood. Suddenly Mr. Herne was lost to the touch, at
the same instant he was heard on a sofa at the other side of
the room, at the same instant also Mrs. Guppy exclaimed that
something had touched the top of her head. It is thought
that Mr. Herne's instantaneous translation to the sofa took
place over the heads of the sitters andatable between him and
the sofa.
Miss Neyland, who has the gift of spirit vision, and who was
a stranger to all present* but Mrs. Guppy, then said she saw
a military gentleman standing near Mrs. Olliver; she minutely
described the features and uniform, and Mrs. Olliver said
that there was no doubt that it was her father. ■ Miss Neyland
then saw a spirit near Dr. Dixon, who was recognised from
the description, and another near Mr. Harrison, who was not
recognised. Then she saw a child near Mrs. Berry, and Mrs.
Berry asked for a proof of the personal identity of the child.
Miss Neyland then saw the spirit writing, and at last the word
“ Berkeley’’ was given, and the name of an uncle of the child.
Mrs. Berry asked for “ more.’’ The talking of the members
of the circle disturbed the writing, but, when they were silent
Miss Neyland said “ It is Berkeley-street.” Mrs. Berry said
“ What tune was playing in the street just before you died?”
Raps then beat a tune on the table. Mrs. Berry said “ That
iss wrong, think again.” After some delay, the raps played
“ Annie Laurie.”
Mrs. Berry then explained that the little girl died in
Berkeley-street, Berkeley-square, that shortly before she died,
the tune of “ Annie Laurie ’’ had been played in the street,
and that the name of the uncle, had been correctly given.
Miss Neyland said that she saw a numberless concourse of
spirits, most of them of exceeding loveliness, watching the
proceedings. Mr. Herne saw at intervals only, but never so
much as Miss Neyland, whose clairvoyant powers are more
developed; what he saw agreed with that which Miss Neyland
saw. One spirit, who was seen by both of them, was seen by
other members of the circle, as a brilliant light over the head
of Mr. Harrison, who saw nothing. On being told a spirit was
there, he looked up, and instantly all the members of the cir¬
cle, who did not know that this motion had been made, said
that they saw the light descend and wane. Miss Neyland said
to him, “ The spirit is going to touch your hand one hand
was on his knee, palm uppermost, several inches beneath the
edge of the table ; the instant the remark was made, it was
tapped several times in the centre of the palm ; there was no
noise or rustle, and the sitters on each side of him were
motionless. At the close of the stance, Mrs. Guppy narrated
the following incident, and gave permission for the publica¬
tion of the same :—
A few days ago a strange lady called upon her (Mrs. Guppy), and said
that “something" which had a very disagreeable influence over her fol¬
lowed her wherever she went; she had read in The Spiritualist newspaper
of last month the account of Mrs. Guppy's spiritual powers, so had come to
ask if she could tell the nature of the trouble.
Mrs. Guppy said that she could not.
Miss Neyland, who was in the room, said, “ I can. There is a man stand¬
ing near you with his hand to his throat. Now he throws back his head,
and it nearly falls off, for his throat has been cut so as to almost sever it
from his body."
The lady, upon hearing this, fainted.
The witnesses were frightened, but with the assistance of Mr. Guppy, the
lady after some little time recovered consciousness. She then, in an agitated
manner, said that she had not treated her husband well, and that he in con¬
sequence had cut his tAroat; before he did so, he made a will which left het
in very comfortable circumstances.
The lady then left, without giving either her name or address.
At supper, after tbe close of the seance, the table, with all the
things on it, was several times moved about for a foot or more,
with nobody touching it. An attempt was made by the spirits
to elongate and expand the body of Mr. Heme, but the effects
were so small, that the experiment was inconclusive, therefore
a failure.
We are very glad to hear that Miss Neyland, who is a phy¬
sical as well as a seeing medium, will follow mediumship as a
profession ; she will not, however, receive strangers without
an appointment having been previously made, or without an
introduction. We have seen too little of her mediumship to
say much about it at present, but if it is always of the satis¬
factory character witnessed last Wednesday, it will be a great
boon to the public to get the chance of seeing good manifesta¬
tions on payment. Good test mediums, who can give proof to
strangers who visit them of the personal identity of their
spirit friends, are much wanted in London, especially now
that there is so much pressure upon the time of the few
thoroughly satisfactory mediums, that it is difficult to obtain
sittings with them.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge will return to England about tbe
middle of next month, and her inspirational oratory will
powerfully aid the spiritual movement in this country during
the coming winter.
The excitement caused by Dr. Newton’s visit to Maid¬
stone has not yet subsided. The Maidstone Telegraph is now
printing much correspondence about Spiritualism, and the
vicar of All Saints, Maidstone, has been preaching against
communion with spirits.
Spiritualism in Birmingham.—In Birmingham the
Spiritualists who are known to each other as such, do not yet
number one hundred. An attempt to unite in an organised
local movement was made by them there some little time ago,
but sectarian differences caused divisions and failure.
New Spiritual Periodicals.—The Rev. F. R. Young,
of Rose Cottage, Swindon, Wiltshire, is going to bring out a
theological journal in connection with Spiritualism, to be
published monthly, price twopence. The title will be The
Christian Spiritualist, and it is intended to represent the
religious views of “ all who profess and call themselves
Spiritualists, but who, at the same time, receive Jesus Christ
as their divinely appointed Teacher and Master. Mr. Young
says that he requires literary and not money aid from those
who are inclined to favour his plans ; also that the first num¬
ber of the new journal will be published on the first day of
January next. Those, then, who favour the step cannot do
better than to write to Mr. Young at once. The first number
of The Spiritual News, price one penny, will be published by
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C., on the
1st of December next. It will be published monthly, as
already announced, and in connection with this journal, The
Spiritualist. The Spiritual News will consist almost exclu¬
sively of news and shorthand reports. It will ease the present
pressure on the space of The Spiritualist, enable us to speak
to our readers fortnightly, instead of monthly, and be a means
of more efficiently and quickly recording the large amount of
public work in connection with Spiritualism which will be
performed by many earnest workers during the coming winter.
Dr. Newton’s Departure.—Dr. Newton sailed for the
United States from Liverpool, about three weeks ago, and a
few evenings previously was present at a reception at the
house of Mr. and Mrs. Tebb, of Camden Town. We have
more information to give about Dr. Newton and his good
words and works, but it is crowded out of this issue. Dr.
Newton’s presence in England has done avast amount of good
to the Spiritual cause, despite the abuse and misrepresentation
of him in the newspapers, and this remarkable medium leaves
our shores with the satisfaction of knowing that he has done
nothing here but good to everybody, and relieved some thou¬
sands of persons of terrible afflictions. The following letter of
his to the Spiritualists of America, was published in the
Banner of Light, received here by the last mail:—“ London,
Eng., Sept. 9th, 1870. Dear Friends.—My labours in this
country are drawing to a close, and I shall leave for home in
the steamer “ City of Paris,” to sail Thursday, 22nd inst. I
have done a great work here and made hosts of friends, and
received the utmost kindness, except from the hirelings of the
daily papers. Thousands of people have been cured of their
diseases—many having maladies without hope—after having
for years tried every other practice. The masses of the people
here are ignorant, and many ascribe this wonderful power of
healing to evil influences, as some do in our own country.
Spiritualism is very little known here, especially among the
lower classes. There are some prominent persons who believe
in the phenomena. But a change and interest are already appa¬
rent, since the people have seen the good effects in the healing
power. But do not be deceived about the influence of the
cause here, for it is yet a stigma for any one to acknowledge
spirit communion, and it need not surprise you when you
consider how they have been bound and fettered in creeds
and dogmas for generations, and hardly any one dares to
think and speak liberally on a religious subject. There are,
however, a few noble souls who do this in the broad light of
day. I expect to arrive early in October, and purpose to com¬
mence to heal in Boston about the 12th. Yours sincerely,
J. R. Newton, M.D.” i
110
MILTON’S LAST POEM.
I AM old and Wind;
Men pointat me as stricken by Q-od’s frown—
Afflicted and deserted of my mind;
Yet am I not oast down.
I am weak, yet strong;
I murmur not that I no longer see.
Poor, old, and helpless—I the more belong,
Father supreme, to Thee.
Oh! Merciful One!
■When men are farthest, then art Thou most near:
When friends pass by—my weakness shun—
Thy chariot I hear.
Thy glorious face
Is leaning t’wards me, and its holy light
Breaks in upon my lonely dwelling place,
And there is no more night.
On my bended knee,
I recognise Thy purpose clearly shown;
My vision Thou hast dimmed, that I may see
Thyself—Thyself alone.
I have naught to fear;
This darkness is the shadow of Thy wing:
Beneath it I am almost sacred: here
Can come no evil thing.
Oh! I seem to stand,
Trembling, where foot of mortal ne’er hath been;
Wrapped in the radiance of Thy sinless hand,
Which eye hath never seen.
Visions come and go—
Shapes of resplendent beauty round me throng;
From angel lips I seem to hear the flow
Of soft and holy song.
It is nothing now,
When heaven is opening on my sightless eyes—
When airs from Paradise refresh my brow—
That earth in darkness lies.
In a purer clime
My being thrills with rapture. Waves of thought
Boll in upon my spirit—strains sublime
Break over me unsought.
Give me now my lyre!
I feel the stirrings of a gift Divine!
Within my bosom glows unearthly fire,
Lit by no skill of mine.
Elizabeth Lloyd.
[ffreat freedom is given lo correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers'].
SCRIPTURAL SANCTION OF SPIRIT COMMUNION.
Sib,—Startled by the accumulation of facts narrated by
credible witnesses,'—that spiritual beings are exercising power
over organic and inorganic substances, and that they com¬
mune with human beings and give advice and warning ;
and that those ethereal beings are disembodied men and
women,—apparently there has arisen a deep seated fear in
the minds of Christians, that the proceedings of Spiritualists
in publishing such knowledge, in witnessing spirit-power
phenomena, and in communing with those spirits, are con¬
trary to the Divine Will; ,that they are “ forbidden,” and
therefore it is clear that, as God will not co-operate with
those who act contrary to His laws, it is certain that the signs
and wonders now taking place are by “ The Devil,” or more
elegantly, by “ Satanic agency.”
It is our duty to prove from the Bible, that such state¬
ments are untrue, and arise from completely losing sight
of the fact that the commands were to avoid intercourse
with the Pagan witches and wizards, who, controlled
by the “ Gods ” of the Moabites, the Ammonites, the
Hittites, the Canaanites, &c., would give the Jews false
information, and thwart, as - far as in them lay, the Divine
plans continually unfolding to erect them as a distinct nation.
This was to be done for ulterior objects connected with the
civilisation and expansion of the human intellect in its1
future history throughout the world, and known so far to us
through the second or “ Christ ” dispensation, which may be
called Spiritualised Israelism. But, be it remembered, that
in no one instance did Moses, did “ the Lord ” forbid con¬
versing with and consulting Jewish seers, or through them
with angels of the Lord, “ from the Lord,” and through
them obtaining knowledge on spiritual'and on business matters.
We need not show the absurdity of taking a piece of the
Mosaic work, and saying, “ You and I are forbidden to consult
witches on pain of death,” and yet without stint, eat pork,
which is equally forbidden.
That the permission to confer with Jewish spirits on reli¬
gious and business questions was in accord with the Divine 1
Will, we shall now prove — remembering these words are
written, not for Atheists or for Deists, but for Christians, who
take the Bible as their guide. So now we go to the law and
the testimony, and ask you to ponder over the declaration
made in or about the year 2,909 B.c. (1 Sam. ix. 9). Before¬
time, in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, thus he
spake :—“ Come, let us go to the seer; ” for he that is now
called a prophet was beforetime called “ a seer,” in our day
“ a medium; ” and in Christian families the enquiry is princi¬
pally through prayer to God, with the Bible on the table, in
the presence of the seer, or medium. It is therefore clear that
while the Jews were, for the reasons assigned, forbidden to
consult the pagan seers, it was their privilege to confer with
the Jewish ones, and that it had the Divine sanction. Let us
take the continuation of the commandments (Exodus xxii.) as
narrated in the next chapter, verse 20: “ Behold I send an
angel before thee, to keep thee in the way fspirit guidance),
and to bring thee into the place which I have prepared (spirit
foreknowledge). Beware of him, and obey his voice (spirit
speech) f Turn to 1 Sam. ix. 6—8. We find that Saul had lost
his asses. He could not find them. His servant advised him,
“ Behold now, there is in this city a man of [God; all that
he (the seer—the medium) saith cometh surely to pass : now
let us go thither ; here is the fourth part of a shekel of silver
(threepence farthing), that will I give to the man of God, to
to tell us the way (to the asses).” Samuel’s “ Satanic agency ”
powers, as they would now be called, were well known to the
“ maidens ” of the district; for Saul was directed by them
which way to go to find the seer. He went, but in the mean
time, the Lord showed his approval of the whole, by telling
the medium Samuel, “ in his ear,” that is, by voice, “ To¬
morrow I will send thee a man thou shalt anoint to be captain
over my people.” This shows that Saul gained his kingship
while consulting a medium respecting the business question
he was anxious to get answered.
The order for putting the heathen mediums to death, was-in
the year 2,513 B.c. Saul going to Samuel, the seer, with a threer
THE SPIRITUALIST.
pence farthing fee in his hand to know where his asses were,
was 396 years after. If our modern Christians were right, we
must call Samuel a wizard, consulted by the Jew Saul, who,
for doing so, ought to have been put to death with Samuel, in¬
stead of being anointed the king of God’s chosen people.
We pass on. By and by Samuel dies ; Saul is king. He
neglects God’s commands, and is rejected; he inquires of God’s
seers, but could not get a response; not because it was forbid¬
den, but because, when he inquired of the Lord, the Lord
answered him not; neither “by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by
seersf three modes of communion. Saul, therefore, restless
and anxious, finding the communion through the Jewish seers
shut up, went to a forbidden seeress—a witch, a pagan.
Samuel answered the call or incantation, and conversed with
Sauland the witch prophesied,—that is, revealed Samuel’s
statement,—that “ to-morrow thou and thy sons will be with
me,” showing that the heaven of Samuel was not far off, and
that Saul and sons were to be in his company the next day.
The word “ angel ” signifies messenger,” or “ bringer of
tidings.” When the Queen of England sends a message, or
the statesman in power acts in her name, we sink the messen¬
ger, and say, “ the Queen’s commands.” So in Scripture, we
have, “The word of the Lord came,” the “angel from the
Lord, ” or “ of the Lord,” or “ the Lord appeared.” Who
were those angels ? Evidently they were disembodied human
beings. We so think, because Samuel was a human spirit,
and appeared as a human being; the other messengers or
angels who appeared to the seers invariably appeared in the
shape of men, acted as men, spoke as men commissioned by
God; and to confirm this statement, in the next issue of The
Spiritualist, space permitting, additional proof will be given
out of the oracle of truth—the Bible. John Jones.
Enmore-park, Norwood Junction.
MR. TABLET’S EXPERIMENTS.
Sir,—A passage in the letter from Mr. Varley to Mr. Crookes,
which appeared in your issue of July 15, interested me much.
Mr.Yarley says, that in a darkened room, about which were
distributed a number of conducting wires, so arranged that
the current passing through them might be varied in direction
or diverted altogether ; he grasped any wire which his hand
in groping about happened to touch. He then enquired
through the medium whether or not a current was passing
along it; and in case of an affirmative answer, he further
asked the direction of such current. This, he says, he repeated,
as far as his memory serves, ten times, and every time the reply
given was correct. Now I assume—and I think myself quite
warranted in so doing, when dealing with an experiment con¬
ducted by a man of Mr. Yarley’s scientific attainments:—that
the wires were so arranged that the chances of touching a
charged and an uncharged one were equal. What then is the
probability that this result—ten questions asked and ten cor¬
rect answers given—was accidental ?
Take first the simplest case and suppose that all the wires
touched were excited, so that no opportunity was afforded for
putting the second query concerning the direction of the
current. To the first question the medium must reply “ Yes,”
or “ No,” and the chances are equal. The probability of .a
correct answer may therefore be represented as |. The same
may be said of the second. The chance therefore that both
will be right may be represented as J of | or J.
The probability that the answers to all the ten questions
will be given correctly, may therefore be represented as
that is, the chances are more than a thousand to one against it.
But supposing a charged wire was touched every time, and
then an opportunity afforded for a second question. In that
case twenty answers wererightly given instead of ten, and the
probability that such a result would arise from accident, may
be represented as -nyv&XTs'’ that is, the chances are more than
a million to one against it. Probability so high as this is
practically all but, a certainty.
But most likely both charged and uncharged wires were
touched, for example, five of each, and the probability that
the correct answers were only coincidences would then be
sifs's, or 1 32,768. My object in writing the above is simply
to supply an argument tending to exclude the supposition (a
not unnatural one), that the medium guessed the answers, and
happened to do so correctly, I have tried to show the high
improbability of such an occurrence. If I am in error in any
degree, I trust some better mathematician than myself among
your readers will set me right.
I give no opinion for or against the Spiritual theory, being
quite unable as yet to form one, but I cannot help wishing that
Mr. Yarley would repeat and publish experiments whose results
can be reduced to mathematical expressions.
Should you think these remarks worth a place in your
columns, they are at your service. Truthseeker.
SPIRITUALISM AND MONEY MATTERS.
Mr. C. W. Pearce, of 6, Cambridge-road, Kilburn, London,
has favoured us with the following narrative. It may be ex¬
plained, for the benefit of outsiders, that impressional mediums
are very sensitive at spirit circles/and very often know and
state the names of spirits about to communicate, because they
feel certain sensations, when particular spirits known to them
make preparations for signalling. They also often get mes¬
sages in words by impressional mediumship. Here is the
statement:—
“ It is often said by those who, hearing only of the pheno¬
mena of Spiritualism, and not searching out the great truth,
which the phenomena ■ are intended to, and do reveal to
earnest seekers—viz., the continued active interest taken by
the loved ones who have been transferred by death to the
spiritual plane of existence, in the affairs of their friends and
relatives remaining on the earth plane.” Of what use is
all this “ tipping ” and “ rapping ” of furniture ; no good comes
of it ? If the spirits would give us information as to how to
get on in the world, we could see its use, and should believe
in it.” One dear friend said to me (now about two years ago),
“ If my father would tell us how to recover the bonds, I would
believe in his presence, and also in Spiritualism.” Little knew
that friend that his father was present, heard the remark,
and determined if he could obtain the necessary assistance,
that the bonds should be recovered, and his son convinced of
the reality of his presence, and active participation in all that
conduced to his welfare. And how the father accomplished
his purpose, the following condensed narrative will show.
Many of the persons hereafter mentioned were passive actors,
and knew, nothing of the spirit-power controlling their move¬
ments ; their participation in the matter being to them purely
a business one ; and if this account finds its way into their
hands they will be as much astonished as will those who never
Oct. 15, 1870.
before heard of a “ dead man ” assisting to recover property
considered by his family to be absolutely lost.
The object in publishing this is, by appealing to the
material mind of man, to convince him of a real, and conse¬
quently, material existence hereafter ; and such an existence
as does not (in God’s infinite love and wisdom) prevent him
from taking an active part in so-called worldly affairs. And
it is published by1 the special desire of the chief actor therein
—namely, John Bream, late of 8, Camberwell New-road,
London, and who is now standing by my side.
In July 1865, John Bream, then of 8, Camberwell New-road,
London, went to visit his son, a merchant in Norwich. After
a sojourn with them of nearly two months he was taken ill,
and died at his residence in the Town Close, on the 7th
September. Two months after, his wife Martha' Bream, died
also ; she being at her own residence in Camberwell New-road.
After the death of both Mr. and Mrs. Bream, the executors
proceeded to dispose of the property they had left behind.
The will directed that certain bonds and stock certificates
which John Bream had held for many years should be con¬
verted into money ; and the executors proceeded in the terms
of the will to dispose of the bonds and stocks. The iron chest
was opened, and the various securities taken out and checked ;
but one parcel of bonds, having a nominal value of £10,965
was missing, although the coupon sheets were there. Diligent
search was made, but they were not foundadvertisements
were inserted in the Times Of February, 1866, but no informa¬
tion could be obtained 'respecting them, and they were con¬
sidered lost, or destroyed in error. The family, with one
exception only (that of his eldest daughter) considered the
loss absolute. Three years passed away, the property had
been divided ; an accountant had been employed to separate
John Bream’s estate from two others, to which J. Bream
was executor, and -which trust had by his death devolved
upon his only surviving son, Mr. Charles J. Bream, of Nor¬
wich. The accountant’s work was passed by Mr. C. J. Bream,
and the account was sent up to Mrs. Martha Pearce, of 34,
Lower Tulse-hill, London (the eldest daughter), for her inspec¬
tion. She demurred to its correctness, but could not detect
any error. The accountant was again consulted, and con¬
firmed his work, and the account was finally passed, much to
the dissatisfaction of Mrs. Pearce, Who was, however, com¬
pelled to submit, because she could not positively point out
any error.
A few weeks passed away, and when Mrs. Pearce mentioned
her dissatisfaction to the writer of this (her eldest son), who
was immediately impressed by John Bream (deceased), his
grandfather, to go to Norwich and examine the accounts
independently on , behalf of the family in London. The
executor was communicated with and consented ; but said,
“ It will be a waste of time and expense.” 1 (the writer,
who am a medium) started for Norwich in January 1869.
On my way I called at Cambridge, and there saw an old
friend, Mr. T. B. Bryant, of 19, Market-street, who invited me
to stay the night; I accepted. He thereupon invited several
friends to meet me. During the evening the conversation
turned upon Spiritualism, and a s&ance was agreed upon. Two
circles were formed ; one of which was composed of the fol¬
lowing persons—Mrs. Bryant and her eldest son, Mr. and
Mrs. John Lincolne, of Sidney-street, Cambridge, and myself
(C. W. Pearce). Yery soon our spiritual friends made known
their presence, and a communication was spelt out to myself
from my grandfather Bream ; but the spiritual being who
was the actual communicator, was my father’s mother, who
had been, at that time, about seventeen years in the summer
land of existence ; she gave the message to me for my grand¬
father, because he had not learnt how properly to move the
table. The communication was as follows: “Go to Norwich
to-morrow, my dear boy ; God will bless your efforts, and you
Will be successful.” I explained to the friends present the
purport of the message, and remarked, “I hope I shall be !”
On the morrow I reached Norwich ; on the next day, Wed¬
nesday, my uncle, Mr. Bream, gave me the books relating to
the estate, and which I had never before seen. In a very
few minutes I was impressed to look carefully down a par¬
ticular page in an old book (and one, which it afterwards
appeared, had not been given to the accountant, because it
was supposed to have been of no use ; but this I did not then
know) and there discovered that sums amounting to between
£300 and £400 had been placed on the debitpAn of Mr. Bream’s
ledgers instead of the credit; thus making an error of nearly
£800 against his estate. I immediately pointed out the dis¬
covery to Mr. C. J. Bream,:who said, “I shall not accept the
money, until the accountant confirms you.” The accountant,
Mr. Henry Ludlow, Manager of the National Provincial Bank
of Norwich, was sent for ; he came, examined the book, and
confirmed the discovery, adding, “ Had I seen this book, Mr.'
Bream, you would have been saved this trouble, and your
nephew al'feo.”
This discovery excited a desire to ask my grandfather, whe¬
ther he would throw any light upon the whereabouts of the
bonds before-mentioned ; and my father and mother visited
Mrs. Mary Marshall, medium, who then resided at 13, Bristol
Gardens, Maida-hill, where they each were told a different
tale, by a person who personated my grandfather. Each tale
was false. On the occasion of my father’s visiting Mrs. Mar¬
shall, after the message had been given to my father, an
audible voice, heard by all in the room, addressed me, saying,
“ Don’t you trouble your head about the bonds, my dear ! ” I
asked, “Who speaks?” and the voice replied, “Your grand¬
mother.” I, therefore, having experienced the value of fol¬
lowing rational advice, did not trouble myself any further
about the bonds, except to ask my grandmother, at a stance
held by my mother, father, and self, at my father’s house,
“ What she had done with them,” to which she replied, “ I de-
troyed the bonds, thinking, when I received the last issue of
coupons, that the talons to which the coupons were attached,
were new bonds.” This was confirmed by my mother, who
remembered her mother telling her, she had seen some pieces
of a bond. I further asked, “ Whether my grandfather could
assist us to an equivalent for them from the Government,” and
he replied, “ That he did not then know, but would do all he
could, and then tell me.”
Twelve, months elapsed, the bonds were not thought of,
except as irrecoverably lost. Again I was in Norwieh : it was
February in this year; and I was visiting at the house of E.
D. Rogers, of Old Palace-road. He and his family and I held
a seance; Mrs. Rogers and I were the only persons at the table,
when a message was given to me by my sister Clara, who had
been fifteen years in the golden land {dead is the word better
understood by most; we do not recognise death). She said,
“ My dear brother, you must go up to London on Monday, on
important business, which you alone can execute satisfactor¬
ily.” I replied, “ Tell me, what for.” She added, “ Not now,
go up and see.” I told hef I wouldn’t do it, I was very busy ;
and though I grieved to wound her by not acting according to
advice, I knew she would be the first to commend me for
Oct; 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ill
using my own judgment, and not, without a clearly defined
reason, travel 120 miles. She replied, “ Do go, it is important
you should ; I must not tell you the business, or I would.”
Immediately after this, another friend (many years dead) who
has been a faithful counsellor and guardian of mine for some
time, addressed me, saying, “ My friend, you had better go to
London; take our advice, you will be satisfied.” I did not
fully consent, but said I would think about it, The next even¬
ing I visited Mrs. George Stocks, of Higham-road; and, after
tea, she, her daughter, and I, held a seance, during which Miss
Stocks was partially entranced by my sister Clara, who again
urged me to go to London the following week. Seeing the
earnestness of the wish, and knowing the valuable aid I had
always received from my friends in the summer land, I decided
to go. I went, and upon my arrival at home, my wife put into
my hands a letter which had been delivered about half an hour
previously, requesting me to go to the Spanish Commission,
and see the secretary respecting the destroyed bonds. I went,
and was there told that the Commission had taken into consi¬
deration our application for new bonds in place of those which
had been destroyed, apd if an indemnification were given to
the Government, they would take the matter into consideration.
I was desired to request the presence of Mr. Bream in Lon¬
don, who was to come prepared with the names of two respon¬
sible London gentlemen to be parties with him in a bond of
indemnity to guarantee the Government against any loss
which might occur. This I did; and in the evening previous
to my uncle’s visit, my wife and I held a seance, when we
were informed by the friend before mentioned that they in the
spiritual world had been urging the Commission to this act of
justice, and that me mere swre to receive an equivalent in value
for the bonds destroyed. I was further directed, through, my
wife’s mediumship, to go to Mr. A. C. Swinton, of 5, Cam-
bridge-road, Kilburn, and ask him to be one of the guarantors;
this I did immediately, and he in true friendship consented.
The next day brought my uncle up to London, who, when
informed that Mr. Swinton had consented to be a party to the
>•“ deed,” said, “ I do not need him, I have two gentlemen,
London merchants, who will oblige me.” I therefore accom¬
panied him to these gentlemen, one of whom was Mr. William
Harvest, of Dowgate-dock, Upper Thames-street, the other
was Mr. John F. Newsam, then of 5, Idol-lane, Great Tower-
street. Each of these gentlemen consented to his request.
Upon my return home,, my wife and I again sat at the table,
and received a communication from my sister Clara, who told
us, that although each of the above-named gentlemen had
promised, neither would sign the deed, but would withdraw.
I said nothing to my uncle, but awaited events. The deed
was prepared by Messrs. C. and T. Jenkinson, of Corbet-court,
Gracechurch-street, and the gentlemen were asked to visit the
solicitors’ office and execute it; whereupon Mr. Harvest ex¬
cused himself, by saying he had been advised by a friend not
to do so ; and he therefore begged Mr. Bream to release him
This, of course, Mr. Bream was compelled to do : Mr. News am,
however, arrived at the solicitors’ office, and taking up the
deed—asked to be excused from executing it, as he had a
family, who would suffer considerably in the event of his
being called upon to pay. Thereupon my uncle was greatly
cast down, and felt that indeed all was lost; but I had, having
been advised by my (dead) grandfather, asked Mr. Swinton to
be present at the office of the solicitors, on the day appointed
for these gentlemen to execute the deed. He promised to
attend, and on his way he (being a medium) was impressed
that a second party would be required ; and he met a friend,
Mr. Charles Gould, of Wood Green, to whom he told the cir¬
cumstances, and asked him to walk with him, as it was proba¬
ble his signature would be required. He at once consented
(this was unknown to me), and accompanied Mr. Swinton, who
immediately upon hearing from me, that both gentlemen had
withdrawn their consent, said “ Never mind. Gould has pro¬
mised to join with me ; he is here, and me will execute the
deed at once.” And Messrs. Swinton and Gould, instead of
Messrs. Harvest and Newsam, signed the deed. After this,
certain formalities were .gone through at the Financial Com¬
mission, and certain formal advertisements were inserted in
the Times of June 22nd and September 21st, and on the 29th
September last my uncle, as executor of the late John Bream,
formally received from the Commission the new; bonds, and
has since received payment of the first half-year’s coupons
attached thereto.
This result has been brought about by the action of my
grandfather and some of his friends in the Spiritual world
upon the minds of the president, and president ad interim, of
the Commission. So utterly hopeless did our application ap¬
pear to the confidential officials, that we were told the chance
of recovering any part of the £10,965 was not worth £50; but
my grandfather kept me continually advised of the progress
of their work (after it was in training), and assured me that
the result would be as it is, and as he predicted, so is the result.
C. W. Pearce.
PRIVATE. SEANCES.
A DEVELOPING- 0IR0LE — INCIPIENT VOICE MANIFESTATIONS — SEEING-
MEDIUMSHIP—IMPRESSIONAL MEDICMSHIP—SENSATIONS OF A MEDIUM
DURING THE PRODUCTION OF TABLE MANIFESTATIONS.
As it is thought that a description of the nature of the
symptoms felt by each member of a new circle sitting for the
purpose of obtaining Spiritual manifestations, may be of
interest and of use, Mr. A. C. Swinton, of 5, Cambridge-road,
Kilburn, N.W., has favoured us with the following details
about the gradual development of mediumship in the circle
held in his house. Occasionally, when a new circle sits,
strong manifestations are obtained at once, but sometimes,
when people who like each other determine to have the
manifestations among themselves, without the admission of
others, it is necessary to sit regularly and patiently for many
months to get anything of a remarkable nature. As yet at
Mr. Swinton’s circle, table motions and seeing mediumship
are among the chief phenomena obtained, but the circle is
sitting in the dark for the production of audible spirit voices,
the development of musical mediumship, and other purposes.
The voices have already sometimes been feebly, heard, and
the spirits attending this circle intend to speak without the
aid of the light tubes of paper, which, as stated on the last
page of this journal, greatly intensify the power of voice
manifestations in the earlier stages of development. The
following are the particulars of the development of medium-
ship in different members of the circle :—
Mrs. Charlotte Shaw, aged thirty-eight, first saw spirit
manifestations in Mr. Swinton’s house about the month of
September, 1869, and occasionally up to March 8,1870, when
she became one of the circle for dark stances then formed.
She gradually saw lights and apparent movement in the
atmosphere of the darkened room, and afterwards saw spirits,
members of the circle, parts of the room, and various objects
in it. Spirits caused a delightful perfume to pervade her bed¬
chamber on the night of March 29; On the following even¬
ing she saw a coloured halo, blue first, afterwards white, and
lastly golden, for some minutes encircling the head of a
visitor permitted by the spirits to join the circle. On the 5th
of April she distinctly saw the spirit of her late husband at the
circle, since which time her spiritual sight has gradually
improved, and she has seen many spirits both at the circle,
and apart from it in the daylight. On the 9th April, she,
without any previous indication of it to others, suddenly
bedame a trance-medium, and was controlled by several spirit-
friends and relatives. Her mediumistic faculties continue to
improve. She has for weeks past seen scenes and people of
the spirit-world, and has also heard raps when alone.
Miss Eliza Shaw, aged eighteen, first saw spirit manifesta¬
tions at the same time and place as her mother, Mrs. Charlotte
Shaw, with whom she became a member of the circle. Lights
and apparent movements of, and openings in the atmosphere
of the room, were first observed by her, and on March 28th
she distinctly saw spirit forms in the room. On the 31st
M arch she was entranced for the first time, but, through the
weak state of her health, no speaking was done through her.
A message, however, was mritten. May 15th, her deve¬
lopment as a musical medium was commenced. She had
never played a piano or any musical instrument before.
Since this time her spirit sight and development as a
musician have proceeded gradually. At each sitting she is
quickly entranced, but remains too weak physically to be used
as a speaking medium.
Mrs. Caroline Knight, aged fifty-nine years, had occasion¬
ally seen spirits before she joined the circle at the same time
as the others named, but she had never sat for manifestations
before. Saw spirits from the first of the sittings at the dark
seances, March 8th, and has continued to see them clearly at
each sitting. June 3rd, efforts were made to control Mrs.
Knight by Edward Dennys-. Her individuality proved too
strong for success. She seemed: ^almost entranced the first
time she sat in the circle. She saw symbolical spirit scenes
about three months ago, but has not seen any since.
Mr. A. C. Swinton, aged thirty-nine, was clairaudient for
a few months some thirteen or fourteen years since. Since
June, 1868, when casually introduced to a seance, he has been
carefully investigating the subject as frequently as possible.
He was seldom permitted by the controlling spirits to sit at a
table for manifestations till some four months since. No
mediumistic faculty was then apparent, but he was told by the
spirit friends that impressional mediumship and spirit-seeing
would be the result of trustfulness and patient enquiry. He
formed a circle for dark stances on March 8th, 1870. He has
seen light in the darkened room during the sittings, also move¬
ments in the atmosphere of it, and, occasionally, “spirit
lights,” or small bright spheres. A very gradual improvement
in seeing is apparent. On May 15th, went out for the first
time with Mr. G. W. Pearce, at six o’clock in the morning, by
direction of E. N. Dennys, for “impressions”—the morning
walk to be continued, as it has been, with attentive silence,
till further notice. The result is that both have become im¬
pressional mediums.
Mr. O. W. Pearce, aged thirty, first heard of Spiritualism
about four years ago, and was told of its phenomena by a
friend, while he was a member of the Independent Church at
Cambridge. In reply to the testimony, he said that he “very
much doubted whether God would permit the spirits of the
just made perfect to come to earth to tumble chairs and tables
about.” But, being assured that such persons as are men¬
tioned as contributors to The Spiritual Magazine testified to
the reality of the manifestations, he, Mrs. Pearce, and four
other friends, sat about twice a week for ten months to obtain
them, but without effect. It was not until he visited a friend
at St. John’s College, Cambridge, at the end of the ten months,
that he ever saw any of the manifestations, and then he saw
table motions. The next time his own circle sat, gentle table
movements were obtained. By patient adherence to direc¬
tions given by his friends in the next world, he has been
developed into an impressional medium.* When table motions
are obtained through Mr. Pearce’s mediumship, they are of a
gentle character, and he feels himself to be in his normal
state, except, that he sometimes experiences a slight warmth
about the head. He can also feel the “ influence ” of each
particular spirit near him, so that when they are not strangers
to him, he knows their names before they signal them out in
the ordinary way. For the last three years the table move¬
ments obtained through his mediumship have not changed in
character or intensity.
PsYCHOioeiCAi Phenomena.—Last Sunday afternoon
an “ experience meeting ” was held at a chapel in Loddiges-
road, near St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney, at which meeting
some illustrations were given of the mesmeric power exer¬
cised by one mind over another, as described in an article
headed “ The Psychology of Revivals,” 'printed on page 63
of this journal. The officiating minister, in giving the par¬
ticulars of his “ conversion,” narrated how he once assisted
in a chapel choir because he was fond of singing but
when the singing was over he usually amused himself by
cutting his name on the seats, or trying to make his com¬
panions laugh. One Sunday, however, a minister, who was an
earnest, powerful man, preached a most thrilling sermon, with
much in it about the wrath of God, so that the youthful
listener became very uncomfortable, especially when the
minister fixed his eagle eyes upon him. He wished to leave
the chapel, but was afraid to pass the door near which the
preacher stood. The preacher next ordered those in the choir
to come downstairs, and take their seats in a pew, which they
did, and pqt the fiddles and other musical instruments under
the seat. Then followed more preaching, the youthful
listener became more uncomfortable, until at last he told a
a companion alongside that he must leave the chapel, he could
stand the eyes and words of the speaker no longer. His friend
had much the same feeling ; he had to pass the minister to
go out, and the preacher brought down his ha/nds over Ms
shoulders, and'in thrilling tones asked him to “give himself to
God.” He felt that he must say “ Yes,” and he thanked God
to this day for the experience. When he said “Yes,” the
preacher exlaimed “Another soul saved! Glory be to God.”
Such is a portion of the narrative of the speaker of last Sunday.
The science of this incident is explained in No. 8 of The
Spiritualist, and there is no doubt that the gentleman who
narrated the occurrence would be a pliant subject in the hands
of any good mesmeriser who possesses a strong will. Mr.
J. M, Peebles was once converted in the same way, as narrated
on page 42.
* For the benefit of the uninitiated it may be explained that in -what is
known as “ impressional ” mediumship, thoughts, words, and proper names,
are imprinted on the brain of the medium, and sometimes sentences in
foreign languages. This form of mediumship gives evidence of spiritual
communion to the medium himself, but to others of course it is simply a
matter of testimony.—Ed.
The “ Zouave Jacob,” the healing medium, has arrived
in London. His address is 38, Somerset-street, Portman-
square.
Spiritualism at the British Association.—Among
the members of the British Association at Liverpool were Mr.
A. R. Wallace, F.L.S., Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Mr. W.
Weldon, F.C.S., Mr. Taylor, and others more or less interested
in Spiritualism. The subject occupied much attention pri¬
vately, and in one instance which we know of a circle of
savans sat, without any developed medium, in the attempt to
obtain manifestations, but without decided results. The gene¬
ral tone of feeling towards Spiritualism was very tolerant, and
not a few expressed a wish- to see some of the phenomena;
considering the scarcity of thoroughly good mediums, it is not
so easy to gratify this growing desire; but it. would have been
well had a few such mediums been present in Liverpool last
month. The scientific world is neither dogmatic nor un¬
reasonable, and in all probability now that so much published
evidence is accumulating that the phenomena are genuine,
consequently that it is not waste of time to investigate,
Spiritualism will spread in this section of society with ease and
rapidity. A history of the British Association was once pub¬
lished by Longmans, and written by Mrs. Fison, who was
assisted in her work by Professor Phillips and other old mem¬
bers of the Association. That book states that Lord Brougham
was the founder of the British Association, The testimony of
the founder of the British Association about Spiritualism is
printed on the last page of this journal.
The Brixton Society of Spiritualists. — On the
Wednesday evening of last week, the first meeting of the
Brixton Society of Spiritualists was held at the house of
Mr. E. Bird, 10, Branksome-terrace, Acre-lane, Brixton,-S.W.,
where a reading-room, in connection with Spiritualism and
kindred other subjects, has been opened. At this first meeting
about a dozen ladies and gentlemen attended, and a general
conversation took place as to the best plan of action to place
the new local movement on a permanent basis. The reading-
room will be open to members from ten to five daily, at a
charge of one shilling per month; this payment includes the
use of books, which, by arrangement, will be lent to the
Society from Mr. Burns’ library, a dozen or more at a time.
Some partially-developed mediums are already among the
members of the society, and seances will be held every Tuesday
and Friday evening, beginning at seven o’clock punctually.
It is not yet decided on what terms those who are not mem¬
bers shall be admitted, but probably it will be by the personal
introduction of a member of the society. The general feeling
of those present at the meeting seemed to be that it was not
desirable to put up with the unpleasantness caused by the
presence of such outsiders as believe Spiritualism to be an
imposture; therefore that every stranger should be introduced
by a member, who should be answerable for the good conduct
of the person thus admitted. Towards the close of the
evening, a seance was held, at which some of the ordinary
physical manifestations were obtained ; the medium was
Mr. Bird. As so many attended the first meeting of the
society, and nearly all of them knew others who were likely
to join in the movement, the new association seems to begin
under favourable conditions.
Experiments in Artificial Entrancement. — The
Builder newspaper recently published a letter by Mr. John
E. Dove, on the life and deeds of Sir. James Y. Simpson,
Bart., who did so much to aid in the improvement of the
construction of hospitals. In the course of the letter, Mr.
Dove says.—“ In the numerous accounts of Sir James’s
doings which have appeared in the newspaper press, there
are a few shortcomings, errors, or omissions, in reference to
old events, which it may be allowable for one, even here,
to note, who was intimate with him, and honoured With
! his friendship, as I was, at a time when the baker’s son
had not many friends. One of these notes is in reference to
his great discovery of the amesthetic power and use of chloro¬
form in child-birth. That others preceded him in the use of
ether in tooth-draming, or even in other surgical operations,
may, doubtless, be the fact; as it was, indeed, that Sir Hum¬
phrey Davy had, many years before, called attention to nitrous
oxide, as a power which had rapt him up, out of the fleshy and
pain-feeling state, into the quasi-spiritual; and induced him
while in that state, to announce, as an “ inf allible ” oracle, that
“ nothing exists but ideas.” That (Simpson, however, was the
exclusive originator of the professional practice of destroying
pain in child-birth; and had the idea, too, of doing so, previously
altogether to Morton the American dentist’s professional ex¬
periments with ether in 1846, the writer of the present note-
for one can testify. Before that time, Simpson and he were
associated in an investigation into the reality or falsity of
artificial entramcement, by what is called mesmerism; as many
of the most noted citizens of Edinburgh, who witnessed our-
joint experiments, well knew; and, although some of these—
such as Sir William Hamilton, Dr. Combe, and others—are now
dead; others, such as Mr. Robert Chambers—and Professor
Balfour, of the Edinburgh University, who kindly introduced
me to Dr. Simpson—still live. So, I presume, does Mr. James
Gall, son of an early inventor of a system of printing for the
blind, who took part in our investigation; as also, for a time,
did the late Mr. W. B. D. D. Turnbull, Advocate, or Scottish
Barrister, but lately of the Rolls Office, London, a family con¬
nection of mihe, whose persecution in the House of Commons
by the Exeter Hall patrons killed him. Now, at that time, or
between 1835 and 1840, Dr. Simpson steadily entertained the
idea of using the “ deep sleep ’’ and pain-killing power of arti¬
ficial entrancement in midwifery, or for the facilitation of the
natural birth; while my object had a curious antithetical co-re¬
lationship to that as i# related to an investigation of the spiritual
birth of the life of entrancement itself, which has since been
more fully carried out at Glasgow and London. A writer in
the Scotsman newspaper, ignorant of Dr. Simpson’s one grand
object even at that time, thinks proper to speak of him in terms;
of regret, and almost censure, that he should have dabbled, idly,
as he seems to think, or without a direct purpose, in what was-
then (if it is not still) a sort of tabooed line of research amongst
medical men. Simpson’s unconcealed experiments, however,
only showed his steady purpose, and his superior sagacity and
moral courage, although he failed to render either artificial en¬
trancement, or ether, or nitrous oxide, subservient to that grand
and destined purpose of his life. It was to him quite a second¬
ary matter, certainly; but I have seen him also experimenting
oij the possibility of performing surgical operations on the
entranced, by singeing with a red-hod poker the eye-brow and
flesh of entranced patients in the Lock Hospital, at Edinburgh,
of which he was at that time superintendent. And neither did
he spare himself in his experiments with chloroform; for before
any other human being had ever been rendered insensible by
it, he tried it on himself and his assistant; and his first know¬
ledge of its levelling power was acquired beneath his own table,
where he found himself lying when he came to himself.”
112
THE SPIRITUALIST
Oct. 15, 1870
FACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Eobert
Chambers, Mr. 0. F. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
’ was a portion of the affidavit of Mr. 0. F. Yarley,
C. E., F.R.G.S., M.E.I.
“ I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“About eight years ago, I called on Mr. Home,
the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.”
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the 'late Em¬
press Dowager of Eussia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
“Cromwell P. Varley, Esq.,Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham Alfred B. "Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Mark's-crescent,
N.W.; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.'W.;
Captain Drayson, B.A., "Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. "Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, "W.C.: S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; "William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Bobert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood.; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfield, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a hook, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says :■—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred E. "Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had sden which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the.
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Eecently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.E.S., editor of the Chemical
News, is now investigating Spiritualism, and he
has published an article in the Quarterly Journal of
Science, stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture, though he does not know
as yet whether they are produced by disembodied
spirits. The following letter, which he wrote to
Mr. Varley, was published in the Spintualist of
July 15th, 1870:—
“ 20, Momington-road, London, N.W.
“ July 13th, 1870.
“Dear Mr. Varley,—I was very pleased to receive
your letter of the 9th inst, in which you discuss some
points alluded to in my paper on “ Spiritualism viewed
by the Light of Modem Science.”
“You have been working at the subject for more
years than I have months, and knowing, as you do, the
enormous difficulties in the way of accurate investigation
—difficulties for the most part interposed by Spiritualists
themselves—you will not be surprised to find that I only
feel the ground firm under me for a very short distance
along the road which you have travelled so far.
“ I was deeply interested in reading of your experi¬
ments, the more so, as I have been working in a similar
direction myself, but as yet with scarcely a tangible
result. .
“ You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever convictions
my investigation leads me to—whether it points to a
mere physical force, or makes me, as you predict, a con¬
vert to the spiritual hypothesis—but I must let my con¬
victions come in my own way, and if I hold somewhat
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and in¬
penetrability of matter, it should not be considered as
a crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity in my
scientific education.
“ I have already had many letters, both from Spiri¬
tualists and from leading men of science, saying that
they are glad I have taken up the subject^ and urging
me to continue the investigation. In fact, I have been
agreeably surprised to find encouragement from so many
scientific men, as well as sympathy from the good
friends I possess amongst the Spiritualists.—Believe
me, my dear sir, very truly yours.
William Crookes."
A work entitled The Boole of Nature, by 0, 0.
Groom Napier, F.O.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“ There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No; for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words :—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such suih of one thou- j
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“ A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict, be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the seances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“ The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
i “ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bri&tol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modern spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non^Spiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it doss not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, conseguent y their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uvAformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
journal to report facts, so we a/re in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no afecurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy'weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. ■ Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters bre'aks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “If'I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? " When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of mediumship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a
good book to read before trying to start a new
circle.
There' are in England several very interesting
"circles for physical manifestations, where the
spirits speak with audible voices, but, unfortu¬
nately, total darkness is a necessary condition.
Non-spiritualists who are inquiring into the sub¬
ject should have nothing to do with dark seances,
which should be held only by those who know
each other, since they offer so many facilities for
fraud. "When any circle regularly obtains power¬
ful physical manifestations, they may desire to sit
for the voices. The very slightest glimmer of
light must be excluded from the room, while the
members of the circle sit round the table in the
ordinary way. One or two paper tubes, each
twelve or eighteen inches long, with an orifice
about an inch-and-a-halt in diameter, should be
placed on the table. They may be readily made
by rolling up a piece or music and tying a few
pieces of cotton round the rough tube thus formed.
In the early stages of a voice-circle these tubes
are necessary for the use of the spirits, but after¬
wards they may be dispensed with except when
the weather and other conditions are unfavour¬
able. When first trying to obtain the voices the
spirits may not be able to lift the tubes from the
table, afterwards they often get them up in the
air a foot or two and let them drop again. When
they get full control over them they can carry
them about up to the ceiling and to all parts of
the room, and they talk to the members of the
circle often while floating about above their heads.
Very beautiful luminous phenomena are some¬
times shown by the spirits at dark circles. While
sitting for the voices, the spirits, will tell by the
ordinary table signals how they are progressing in
their work of getting control of the tubes.
THE PROGRESSIVE LIBRARY and
SPIBITUALIST DEPOSITOBY has been re¬
moved from Camberwell to No. 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, W.C.
There is a Publishing Office and Shop for the sale of
Books; a Circulating Library of all Works on Spiritualism,
&c.; a Beading-Boom supplied with the Spiritual and
Progressive Publications of the World; a Drawing-
Boom for the special use of Ladies and Subscribers;
Private Booms for Stances, Committees, Meetings, &c.,
and where all information respecting the Cause and the
Progress of events may be obtained.
The Subscription, entitling to all the privileges of the
Establishment, including the use of two Books at a
time from the Library for home perusal, is 21s. per annum
A well-assorted Stock of Stationery, Periodicals, cur¬
rent Progressive Literature, Standard Works, Cheap i
Books and Tracts, Planchettes, Materials for Writing
and Drawing Mediums; also Works and Appliances on
Phrenology, Physiology, Health, and Dietetic Beform,
Temperance, Hydropathy, Gymnastics, Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology, &c., will be kept on sale.
As the responsibilities incurred in establishing this
“ Home for Spiritualism ” and the Science of Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor earnestly solicits the kind
co-operation and support of alb who sympathise with
the enterprise. Strangers in London should at once
call at the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information.
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, London, W.C
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, pub¬
lished Monthly, contains all the news of Spiri¬
tualism, and psychological articles by writers of ability.
Publisher, James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.O.
TWO ROOMS to be LET Unfurnisbed.
A Spiritualist preferred as a tenant. Apply on
the premises, E. Bird, 10, Branksome-terrace, Acre-
lane, Brixton. Also a Stable and Chaise House to be let.
BIRD, GAS FITTER, PLUMBER,
• PAINTEE, PAPEB HANGEE, PEWTEEEE,
and HOUSE DECOBATOB. Contractor for every des¬
cription of House Bepairs. No. 10, Branksome-terrace,
Acre-lane, Brixton, and at High Holbom.
HUMAN NATURE, a Monthly Record
of Zoistic Science, Intelligence, and Popular
Anthropology. Becent numbers give full details of the
extraordinary Manifestations through the celebrated
Medium, D. D. Home, Esq., with philosophical reason¬
ings as to the nature and cause of the phenomena: a
new series of lessons on Phrenology and the Tempera¬
ments is being given, containing some new instructions
of great value to the student; first-class Portraits of
eminent men and women, with Biographies and Phreno¬
logical delineations are frequently introduced; a serial
Tale of great power and beauty; articles on Physiology,
Diet, Temperance, and Health; translations from Con¬
tinental Works and Periodicals; treatises on Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Spiritualism; reviews of Books; reports
of Lectures, Meetings, and Societies, renders this the
cheapest, most varied, and instmetive Periodical of the
kind in the world. The fact that this Periodical is en¬
tirely unbiased and devoted to the truth respecting all
the topics on which it treats, is a point not to be over¬
looked by all earnest investigators, whatever their
opinions may be. Post free, 7s. pec annum, or 6d. per
month from the Booksellers. James Burns, Progres¬
sive Library, 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury-square,
Holbom, London, W.C.
A COMPLETE Set of SPIRITUAL
jt\- MAGAZINES for SALE, besides several Odd
Volumes,
HEYWOOD AND CO., 335, STEAND, W.C.
Where also may be obtained Spiritual Magazine, Human
Nature, Daybreak, and the Spiritualist on day of
Publication, Wholesale and Betail.
On the first of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review,
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Beligion.” Edited by
the Bev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co., 60, Patemoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Bawson, and John Hey wood; and
through all booksellers'and agents.
TUIEMALE
MEDICAL
Vice-Patrons:
SOCIETY.
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Bothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President:
The Bight Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer:
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-street, E.C.
Honorary Secretary:
James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary:
Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and ChUdren.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social usefulness to ladies who may not be
dependent upon their own exertions. For want of
properly quafifled ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drifted into the hands of gentlemen,
though female practitioners still attend the bulk of the
population. But any person may undertake the duties
of a midwife. Proper means of study have never been
provided for women, and there has never been any
public examination, by which women when well qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies’
Medical College, which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi¬
cine. Eighty-two ladies have already availed themselves
of its advantages, and many of these ladies are settled
in practice, and succeeding admirably.
A life subscription of ten guineas, or an annual sub¬
scription of one guinea, constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions will be
gladly received.
Lady subscribers of not less than one guinea are
invited to visit any Lectures in which they are likely to
be interested.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations Of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—-4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Cheques to be crossed London and County Bank.
"IVT0. 1 of The Spiritualist is from be-
JL v ginning to end a compact mass of good evidence
that the facts of Spiritualism are true. It contains a
summary of the evidence given before the Dialectical
Society'by twenty witnesses of eminence and ability; it
also gives the testimony of respectable non-Spiritualists;
therefore it is a valuable publication to place in the
hands of non-Spiritualists, and should be selected for
that purpose rather than later numbers of the same
journal, as the later numbers will run out of print first,
and should be ordered whilq they are still obtainable by
those who wish to preserve them for binding. A few
copies of No. 1 should be kept on hand for the benefit of
non-Spiritualists, but later numbers should be retained in
the possession of the early friends of the movement,
before they become scarce and unobtainable. Covers
with stringed backs, to keep copies clean till required
for binding, 2s. 6d. each.
London: E. "W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; or J.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, "W.C.
Contents.
The Development of Religions among Savages 105
The Career of Professor William Denton   108
Leader :—Professor Denton’s Besearches 109
Spiritual Manifestations   109
Poetry;—Milton’s Last Poem ...   ... 119
Correspondence:—Scriptural Sanction of Spirit
Communion—Mr. Farley's Experiments  - HO
Spiritualism and Money Matters ...   ..,110
Psychological Aids to Geology    ...107
Private Stances:—A Developing circle—Incipient
Voice Manifestations—Seeing Mediumship—Jm-
pressional Mediumship—Sensation of a Medium
during the production of Table Manifestations ... 11.1
PARAGRAPHS:—Mrs. Hardinge, 108; Lying Spirits,
108; Anti-Spiritualism, 108; Winter Soirta, 108;
Spiritualism in Dalston, 108; Winter Public
Meetings, 108: Spiritualism in Birmingham,
109; New Spiritual Periodicals, 109; Dr. New¬
ton’s departure, 109: Psychological Phenomena,
111; Spiritualism at the British. Association,
111; The Brixton Society of Spkitualists, 111^
Experiments in Artificial Entraneement, 111.
Printed for the Proprietor by JAMES Beverihosj, at tfie
Holbom Printing Works, Fnllwood’s Rents, High
Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-aboMe-Bar and
St. George the Martyr, London, and published, hy £4
I W. Allen Ave Maria-lane, London, E.G.
