OS'
[BBCKS1BMB AS A NaWSPAMR.]
dai< ^CI^K^5<.
Cjr* #l^sl rumuchi) tuiijj Sptuluaitsm m
THE “ SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : ix, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont,
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 210.—-(Vol. IX.—No. 5.) LONDON: FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Philosophy of Spiritualism 49
Spiritualism from a Poetical Point of View 49
What is the Intelligence? By C. Carter Blake, Doct. Sci.... 61
Materialisation Phenomena among the Indians. By Gran¬
ville T. Sproat        ... ... 61
The Necessity for Test Conditions  62
A Story of a Weeping Picture   ... ...62
A Pencil Writing by Invisible Agency in the Presence of
' Witnesses        63
Chinese Trance and Clairvoyant Mediums  63
Spiritualism in Continental Europe. No. III. By Emily
Kislingbury:—A Visit to the Persecuted M. Leymarie
—Capture and Imprisonment of Buguet—Parisian Psy¬
chologists and Beincarnationists—The Number of
Spiritualists in France  ... 64
Poetry:—Beyond ...  66
Correspondence i — Spiritualism without Spirituality—A
Prophecy—Spiritualism from a Theological Point of
View—The Education of Children—Spiritualism and
the Press—Dr. Carpenter’s Unconscious Cerebration—
A Letter from Dr. Slade—Spirit Messages in Languages
Unknown to the Medium—The National Association of
Spiritualists — Powerful Spiritual Manifestations in
Birmingham—Manifestations at Brussels through Mr.
Williams’ Mediumship—The Healing Power—Specula¬
tions by a Clairvoyant 65
Answers to Correspondents 60
Paragraphs:—The Facts of Consciousness, 52; Witchcraft,
52; Religious Ideas in the Tyrol, 62; Persecutions of
the Jews by Christians, 58; An Official Report Exa¬
mined, 53 ; Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces, 60;
Activity of the Spirits of Lawyers, 60; The Psycholo¬
gical Basis of the Eye 60
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “ Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.O.
East London spiritual meetings.-
LEOTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s
Lecture Rooms, 16, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in’the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
JSy Royal Letters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Oharing-oross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rous*, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Furnished apartments to let,
consisting of pleasant. Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Rail and Omnibus. C. P., 102, Clarendon-road, Notting-hiU, W.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, Magnetic Healers, and
Mediums.—To Let, FURNISHED APARTMENTS.
Also for evening ssances, 26, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.O.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In aUimce with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
HENRY D. JENOKEN ESQ., M.R.I.
Barrister-at- Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse.
Honorat y Secretary and Treasurer:—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—74, Nayarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prosfectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposa lof Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following,, viz.:
“ To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
theilibrary, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 6s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
fife members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
Leigh spiritualists* association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religious Condition of .Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, ls.l}d.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and 15th of every month. Price
2d., or 6 francs yearly. Belgium—37, Rue Florimont, Lifege.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Reflexionen aus der geister-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Jo? efstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. Londoa
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandra Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Brancn Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, YTO.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., te
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high elass journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea,
a year includes membership, and one hook from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library.
, Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may ho
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38 Q. eat Russell-street, W.OH
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentleman were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom de plupe of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed wera
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publication, holds itself free from all responsibility fop the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O. Price Is. IJd., post free.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seanee at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class ai
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientifie
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loa*
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pampblets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed is
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, ftc., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King, Cloth,
6s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 1, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF j
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, WestBromptcn* SJrV. |
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex* i
N.W.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, 'BL. j
Gully, J. M., M.I)., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hiil, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington.sqi* i
Liverpraet. * j
Honywobd', Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W. I
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildJ- |
ings, E.C. _
Itamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryarcston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D , Rose-villa, CImrch-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin R„ Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M. I>.rDouglas House, 18, zVlexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Lirerpool,
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derbj’ House, Belper.
Armfleld.W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Waads-worth, S.W,
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F A.,22, St. Ann’s-oquare, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel. 4, Elsham-road, Hollana-road, Kensingtaa.W.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Southsea, Ponsnoctaih.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs, K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lyuton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Blaefe*-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. X., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Liliau-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Oerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brlxton, S.W.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborongh-road, North Brlxton,
S.W.
Glendlnning, A., 4, Castledlne-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., Tlie Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E , Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lam on t, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end,Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S E. .
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald* Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Ctsverton-street. Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, 1). H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace,Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. ’ Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Direkinck-Holmleld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Eiysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Eiysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M.Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs.'Cdra L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
u:s.A.
A. J.Riko, Esq . Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Druthmond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Ruasell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 26, Leipsic, Germany.’
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Bussell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Kpes Sargent,-Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq-, M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
jg. Crowell, E5q., M.D.,l96,X;linteh-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson,Esq.,M.D„ Albany, New York, U S.A.
W L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris. .
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Buliet, Hotel de 1 Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A E. Nnhrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J, H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-str.isse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Musee des Beaux Arts, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Newlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., /4, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m .
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb's Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended. Address 90, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.O.
Notice.—Physical seances with a first-class medium held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
by introduction, Fee 5s. Arrangements may also be made
for private physical seances.
T. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
ISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomauia, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructious in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary. —Mr. George Browne, 42. Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lament, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H, J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
HE object, of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876. 
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy. Science, Government,
Religion. Poetry. Arc, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeiav, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt. Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a irai.ee state, and are of the moat
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6».
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIYE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and oth»r phases as
usual. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can be engaged for seances, moftiing or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St James's House, Waltham¬
stow.
MISS LOTTIE EOWLER, the Great
American Somnambulist, Spiritual Clairvoyants, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Homs, 1 till 8 p.m Terms, one guinea.
Miss Fowler does not reply to correspondence, nor see visitors
on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place, Bloomshury-square,
London, W.C.
MRS. BURKE is about to hold PDBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance tor refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will be held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
col< ny—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile ot soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM. EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price Ss.
LONDON:—SlMBKIN, MABSHAIT. * CO.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHARD AND CO.,
Fdbnishino Undertakrrs, Carriage Proprietors, &c.
Chief Office: 47, Crawrord Street, BryanstoN
Square, W,
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram,
W.C.
►ROFESSOR JAMES REGAN, Psychopathic
Healer, 37, Hart-street, Bloomsbury-square, London,
Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attendance given on that day. Terms in ac¬
cordance with patient’s means. Patients attended at their
own residences by appointment.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION FOR THE
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, Briti h National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
WANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoj ant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y., 16, Stafford-street, Maryle-
hone-road, W.
OOD CHAMBERS or FURNISHED
\JT APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6}
guineas a week for four months. .References given and re¬
quired. A, B-, Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wi^nt.
% xif ||| nttb tif
Volume Kijme. Number Five.
8/v
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1st. 1876.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITUALISM. j
Among the numerous Spiritualists in France and the few |j
in England who believe in the Pythagorean doctrine of ||
reincarnation are a few who, in books and letters, give utter- ! |
ance to the idea that those who do not coincide with them I
are mere phenomenalists, with no appreciation either of jtt
philosophy or of morality. This assumption is rather a jv
hard one. Those who object to it may reasonably argue that j<
they are not destitute of philosophy or of religion, simply j|
because they refuse to accept an unproved speculation. The \l
theological world frequently gives utterance in its journals |(
to harsh expressions against the world of science ; yet for j /
integrity of character and for a plain, straightforward line | j
of action in the ordinary business of life, the experimental |(
phi! osopher is infinitely preferable to the sanctimonious j j!
deacon. Judge the two orders of mind by their acts and j
by their daily lives, and the philosophers will carry off the I j
palm. The facts of Spiritualism are wide and broad enough j 11
to give a certain amount of foundation to a dozen such I j j
speculations as that of reincarnation, and in the course of {J j
years some one of these various speculations may prove to i j
be true; indeed, the philosophy of Berkeley appears to m
harmonise more with the undisputed facts of Spiritualism j j j
than does the philosophy of Allan Kardec. At the present 111
time it is premature to attempt to establish a philosophy j j
upon the partially observed and the partially developed facts j ] j
of modern Spiritualism, nor should those claim religious j | \
and philosophical ascendency who have rallied round a j jj
particular dogma which is not yet proved, and which the j < |
course of future discovery may or may not sweep away j j
altogether. j |
SPIRITUALISM FROM A POETICAL POINT OF VIEW.
From “ The Harbinger of Light,” Melbourne, j j i
There can be no doubt that the good and great poets of j |
all ages, from the most ancient days of Homer and Hesiod j | j
down to the latest times of Tennyson and Browning, have 11
been Spiritualists; yes, Spiritualists, in the most esoteric j I
sense of the term. Seers of the invisible, mediums of the I j j
inaudible, prophets of the unspeakable, the poets of all times 11 j
and climes have been a kind of intermediate gods, divine ! j i
interpreters, holding up in their anthropomorphic mirrors {> I
the Great Original to the astonished gaze of His imperfect 1 j
images, and trying to make plain to a less gifted brother- j j
hood that the shades of Hades are the shadows of realities 11 j
more real than the shadows of a clay formation. What, for | j
instance, by way of illustration, was the meaning of Homer | j!
when he made Achilles exclaim in astonishment, after having 111
seen the spirit of his friend Patroclus ?— I !
’Tis true, ’tis certain ; man, though dead, retains i \ j
Part of himself; the immortal mind remains ; | >!
The form subsists without the body’s aid, j (j
Aerial semblance, and an empty shade ! ; vl
This night, my friend, so late in battle lost, j) ]
Stood at my side, a pensive, plaintive ghost; | j I
Even now, familiar as in life, he came ;
Alas ! how different! yet how like the same ! i ) |
Could Catherine Crowe, could Colonel Olcott give a more ! j j
graphic account of a spiritual apparition ? I think not. j j |
Where did the first of human seers, the first in rank and j j |
time, derive this ?? true ” and u certain knowledge of a life j > j
after death ?” Who taught Homer the magic trick of paint- i j |
ing, with so steady a hand, and in such vivid colours, the j (|
verities of a translethean existence? It is impossible that m
Homer was the first man to whom the upper world disclosed j j i
the grand secret of man’s post-mortem existence. This open I j j
secret is revealed by him in too homely and easy-flowing jj j
language to pass for the first attempt at a spiritual revelation, j | .|
Whence then did the old blind bard, whose blindness, like ill
that of the English Homer, did not prevent him from being
the most far-seeing man of his age, obtain the light by the
aid of which he made the invisible cast a substantial shadow
upon the spectrum screen of the visible ? Where did he
get it? you ask. He got it from where all great and sensi¬
tive minds get their great and beautiful thoughts and occult
science, from the advanced ancient pioneers of our mysterious
promised land who preceded the earliest inhabitants of this
planet untold ages agone. Inspiration is the world’s earliest,
most profound, and most reliable teacher. The habitual in¬
vocation of the Muses, although often abused by unworthy
poetasters as une faqon de parler, was originally a prayer
offered by tuneful souls to the supernal spirits, entreating
them to breathe the harmonies of the spheres into the strings
of their brain harps, and to make the instruments of spiritual
inspiration sound the praises of gods, demi-gods, and heroes.
Music, in this original sense, was eminently the art of the
Muses, and included, besides the knowledge of the divine
laws of sound, the highest order of wisdom given by God to
man. In short, everything good came somehow from the
powers above, and to their influence were directed the prayer¬
ful aspirations of elevated minds. It is not at all impro¬
bable that the worship of the Muses, who have always been
represented as haunting high mountains and shady forests,
cool fountains and babbling brooks, was originally connected
with and derived from the occasional appearance, during the
earliest ages of man’s rising culture, of materialised spirits
to musing shepherd and other mortals, fonder of the quiet
company of their own (?) thoughts than of the noisy society
of a sensual multitude. Thus, the Oreads, the Naiads, and
the Hamadryads were, most likely, the mothers of the Muses.
Mediaeval history supplies a striking illustration of this in
the inspired, or highly mediumistic, person of Jeanne
d'Arc of Domremi. In her case we have the histori¬
cal Bois Chesnu (oak forest), the Beau Mai or L'Arbre des
Dames (the nymphs’ tree), and the limpid fountain
beneath the gigantic beech tree {patulae sub tegmine
fagi), all combined in one beautiful spot of the Cham¬
pagne, and presenting all the essential elements of an
early patriotic inspiration to the coming Saviouress of La
Belle France. Strange to say, the same spot was held
sacred {Pacific taboo) in times anterior to Christianity by
those sacerdotal poets, the Druid priesthood of Gaul, and
this very beech tree, the Beau Mai of our story, may have
been one of those trees upon the branches of which Lucan
sings that the birds of the air dread to perch, il illis et
wlueres metuunt insistere ramis. In speaking of the same
trees, the poet of the Pharsalia significantly adds, u arbori-
bus suus horror inest ” (a peculiar shuddering pervades the
trees), which is not at all improbable, if they were haunted
by the spirits of the departed. Similarly, the will of the
god was declared by the wind rustling through the lofty oaks
and beech trees in the grove of Dodona. Equally interest¬
ing in this connection is this other verse of the poetical
biographer of the great Csesar: “ .Et non ardentis Julgere
incendia silvae ” (and flames shone from a grove that did not
bum), reminding the thoughtful and orthodox, that is, right-
thinking, reader of u the flame of fire in a bush,” with the
following command to Moses : “ Put off thy shoes from thy
feet, for the place where thou standest is holy ground.”
The question how the ancient race of Indogermanic Gauls
and the hypothetical chosen race of God should, simul¬
taneously, have fallen upon the same representative image
of God in a burning bush, suggests, according to my
opinion, a far broader basis of revelation than that supplied
by the stiff-necked and exclusive dogma of the modern lucus
a non lucendo Christianity.
But, to return to our “ Maid of Orleans however unin¬
telligible and ridiculous the career of the divine “ Pucelle”
50
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sbpt. 1, 1876.
may have appeared, a century ago, to the shallow admirers
of a sneering Yoltaire, a philosophical Spiritualist would
now-a-days find nothing surprising or very wonderful in the
fact that the mediumistic Jeanne could descry perfect spirit
forms in the twilight, and could hear spirit voices sighing
among the branches of the old oaks and beech trees. Far
more wonderful things happen in these latter days of nine¬
teenth century Spiritualism, and only those ignorant of the
genuine and positive nature of the phenomena are now
allowed to be honestly astonished. There was nothing so
very wonderful in the fact that at a time when France was
surrounded by the greatest troubles, and threatened with the
imminent danger of total political extinction, the patriotic
spirits of departed heroes should form a powerful circle, with
an innocent shepherdess for their medium, and try to esta¬
blish a connection or rapport with their fellow-citizens in a
lower sphere, in order to assist them in their almost super¬
human efforts of throwing off the galling yoke of a proud
and haughty enemy. To a modern Spiritualist there is
nothing surprising or supernatural in the soft and beautiful
voice (voix belle et douce) which in those most troublous times
addressed the tender heart of Joan with these words: u Jeanne
la pucelle, child of Grod ; be wise, be good, put your trust
in God, for you must go into France.” This voice stamped
Joan of Arc a consecrated virgin, a true Kadeshah in the
best and most exalted sense of the term. She was to be
the female “ Ecce Homo ” of France, the Azazel, or scape¬
goat of a corrupt age and nation, the redeemer of a lost
society. Such another “Ecce Homo” a bridegroom to
vestal Joan, is now very much wanted in France, in the
world—if France, if the world is to be saved from absolute
perdition. It is true there is already a Diogenes spirit
abroad, who, lamp in hand, searches the features of the
people, looking for a man who will once more take the sins
of the world upon his Atlas back, ready to suffer like a
Prometheus, Socrates, Sakyamuni, Joshua, or the rest of
the divine martyrs and God-intoxicated drivers of a slowly-
advancing car of civilisation, whose creaking wheels seem
constantly to cry out for human blood as the only patent
lubricating medium of its progress.
We have said in the outset that all true and great poets
are Spiritualists at heart; some, and these are the best,
willingly and knowingly ; others, semi-consciously and half-
wittingly; and a third class, of which Swinburne is the
aptest modern type, struggle defiantly, Byronically, in the
toils of the “ Prince of the Power of the Air.” Was John
Milton, I ask, not a genuine Spiritualist when he sang :—
Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth
Unseen, both when we wake and when we sleep !
Could Milton have meant anything different in this out¬
spoken passage from what modern Spiritualists mean when
they use similar words in prose ? Are poets, then, a kind
of licensed liars, using metaphors only to hide falsehoods
and fables under the gloss of serpents’ tongues ? The poets
•- those true and highly-polished mirrors of an unseen
world of forms and modes of being; those secondary
creators sent by God in long intervals to show a purblind
humanity the innermost beauties of his cosmos—these rare
and great men should only be vain and idle storytellers of
an infinitely unreal world of spirits. Is such a supposition
to be tolerated for a single moment ? Must poetry be less
true because its idiom is couched in rhyme and rhythm ?
Is the most elevated human thought expressed in harmo¬
nious numbers, measures, and verse less worthy to be
pondered than the most perfect syllogism of Plato’s
dialogues, or the most finished period of a Ciceronian
oration? No, certainly not! Again, I ask, what is the
purport of the language of. Longfellow, one of the semi¬
conscious class of poets, when he tells us in “Resigna¬
tion ”—
There is no death! what seems so is transition.
This life of mortal breath
Is but a suburb of the life elysian,
Whose portal we call Death.
What difference is there between Longfellow’s “ life
elysian” and the eternal summerland of the Spiritualist ?
I answer, none; but the poet has only seen the golden
border pf the white garment of truth. And again, his
I] “ Haunted Houses,” what kind of habitations are they ?
He will tell you:
All houses wherein men have lived and died
Are haunted houses. Through the open doors
The harmless phantoms on their errands glide
With feet that make no sound (?) upon the floors.
| If language means anything, these verses must most un¬
mistakably refer to the fact that the spirits of the departed
do really visit us sometimes, because they still take an in¬
terest in our human affairs. Again, his celebrated
Dust thou art, to dust returnest
Was not spoken of the soul,
seems to assign to the spirit a different and higher destina¬
tion than that of the mere apparitional body of dust. It
| would appear from this that the “ Pulvis es, et in pulverem
reverteris” of Genesis does not hold good with respect to
the spiritual body. Longfellow’s “Footsteps of Angels,”
| “ Excelsior,” and scores of other poems are full of language
perfectly identical with the language used by the modern
I Spiritualist. And yet, this poet scorns, has scorned, in
! plain words of prose, the idea of being ranked amongst the
| Spiritualists. Why should Longfellow be so offended when
i he sees that other people take him by his word, really meaning
| in their hearts what he is only saying with his lips ? To be
I a trumpet of God, and not to know it. How sad ! This is
i the reason why I called Longfellow a semi-conscious poet,
| for he really does not seem to know what he has been
|l singing about these fifty years and more. But some people,
!| and their number is legion, prefer “ reigning in hell to
I serving in heaven,” and it is more likely that Longfellow’s
| Muse is afraid of risking a poetical reputation, though only
j of a verbal kind, of fifty years’ standing, for what to him must
| be a very problematical positiou in the spheres, of the
I glories of which he only sings for a living. Is this the
| divine mission of modern troubadours ? Had Spiritualism
| not been born (a second time) in a manger, we simple
| shepherds would have had no chance of getting a glimpse of
j the cradle. But who would go to Hydesville or Bethlehem
| to watch the rising of a new sun. The race of “ wise men,”
| both in the East and in the West, seems to be extinct,
and the task of receiving the infant saviour of Spirit-
i ualism with due homage appears to have been exclu-
| sively allotted to the lowly shepherds. Let the shepherds do
! duty as sentinels at the cave of Spiritualism fora little while
| longer, for the day is not very distant now when it will be
| looked upon as a mark of honour and distinction to have been
among those chosen few whose eyes rested first upon the
j early instinctive movements of our young Shiloh “ unto
| whom shall be the gathering of the people.”
But it is time to bring this dithyrambic rhapsody on
I poets, mediums, and Spiritualists, to a close, which I do not
think can be done in apter and more appropriate language
than that of the Majora canamus of Tennyson :—
Our voices took a higher range ;
Once more we sang : they do not die,
Nor lose their mortal sympathy,
Nor change to us, although they change ;
Rapt from the fickle and the frail
With gathered power, yet the same,
Pierces the keen seraphic flame
From orb to orb, from veil to veil.
|
Rise, happy morn, rise holy morn,
Draw forth the cheerful day from night:
Oh Fathei*, touch the east, and light
The light that shone when Hope was born.
C. W. Rohneb.
Chiltem.
The World newspaper of this week contains an interesting article
on Dr. Slade’s mediumship.
The Portsmouth Times and Naval Gazette has republished from The
Spiritualist the article about a seance with Dr. Slade, by Mr. Serjeant
Cox, Recorder of Portsmouth.
Mrs. Tebb, who at the present time is at Hazeldean, Great Malvern,
informs us that she has heard from Dr. Newton, the celebrated heal¬
ing medium; he at present is in Fayette, and he expected to take up
his residence once more in New York by the end of last month.
Ox Sunday, August 20th, Mr. W. H. Lambelle, of South Shields,
read before the members of the Newcastle Spiritualists’ Society a lengthy
address on “Mythology,” which had been written by him under spirit
- control. Mr, Robertson, of Dunston, occupied the chair.
51
Sept. 1, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST.
WHAT IS THE INTELLIGENCE ?
BT 0. CARTER BLAKE, BOOT. SCI.
Mr. C. 0. Massey’s truly philosophical letter marks an
epoch in the history of the science for which Dr. Slade’s
phenomena have afforded the opportunity.
Of the objective facts there can now not be the slightest
doubt; and I cannot make more than a passing allusion to
the wonderful unanimity with which observers of every
various philosophical, scientific, and theological school have
agreed as to their narratives as to what takes place with Dr.
Slade. This fact is alike creditable to the medium as to the
observers.
The application of the theory of unconscious cerebration
to the explanation of any of the phenomena appears difficult.
Recognising, as I do, the extremely guarded language in
which Mr. Massey has indicated its possible application, I
am unable to perceive the manner in which an assumed
current passing through assumed ideomotor nerves, whose
functions have no relation to any of the sympathetic centres
of the body, could not only pass beyond the limits of the
medium’s body, but generate a separate entity outside it.
And when that separate entity is capable of free volition ;
when it shows hands whose action involves that of trachial,
and possibly of shoulder, muscles; when the force which
e.g., lifts a chair or touches a coat, acts from a centre at a
distance from the medium’s body, I cannot see how such
force can be said to be analagous or identical with that
cerebral or even reflex action by which the medium may
move his own hands or feet. I accord with Mr. Massey
that the battle of Spiritualism will have to be fought over
the <e intelligence.” I confess that the spiritual theory,
merely as a provisional hypothesis, is far more convenient
than that of the physiologists; at the same time, that, as
I have already expressed, the truth may lie between the two
extremes. For if the old Epicurean philosophy is once dis¬
interred from the oblivion of which it is unworthy, the con¬
ditions under which duplication of the forma of an object by
the production of its simulacrum may be effected are clearly
comprehensible and definable. Such simulacra or eidola
may be like the body of Dr. Slade; they may imitate his
handwriting; their hands may be similar to and capable of
as free volition as his own, and yet they may not be in any
way “spiritual.” Such “form” may be diminished to a
less extent than that of the original body, which may
account for the writing by a slate pencil fragment in a
space less than half an inch in vertical diameter. The
form producing this writing may not be, and probably is
not, as large as that of an ordinary human hand. I am
merely indicating this line of argument, premising that the
account of the Epicurean philosophy given in Diogenes
Laertius is perfectly unintelligible without comparison with
the Fragmenta of which we must regret that so little is
preserved to us.
I may also remark that a duplication of form by no means
involves a duplication of matter, nor of substance. Of course
I use the word substance in the sense of Aquinas; and while
wishing to avoid all theological controversy, would express
my opinion that the teaching of the schools as to matter
and form has in England, at least, been steadily going
down hill:—
JEtas parentum, pejor avis, tutit
Nos nequiores, mox daturos
Progeniem vitiosiorem.
I know that no follower of Locke or Berkeley can see the
matter as I see it; perhaps some Fichtians may. And I
would be curious to know how many (Spiritualists are in
accord with me. For the assumption of duality of form is in
no way irreconcilable with the views which Miss Kislingbury
so clearly expressed some weeks ago in her excellent letter,
u Form-manifestations versus materialisations.” An assump¬
tion of duality of substance (taking as above the old
scholastic definition) would involve more dilemmas than I
could venture to refute within your space. And an assump¬
tion of duality of matter is (at least to my mind), besides
being physically impossible, liable to grave objections from
the schools of Chrysippus, and perhaps from that of Car-
neades. I must on this subject speak with diffidence, not
having the slightest leaning towards the teachings of the
Neo-Academicians, and submitting my opinion to' the judg-
Ij ment of an authority which is final on all matters relating to
| the definition of substance, and the phenomena of Being,
j Still, I see nothing in some hints which Rosmini has thrown
out, contrary to my opinion. And if the matter be left as
| an open scientific question, I would be strongly inclined to
| deny (even potentially) any duality or duplication of matter.
| But the whole subject has (even before the Christian aera)
j been thought out by wiser and better men than the fag-end
| of the nineteenth century has as yet produced. The
| jeu cTesprit which some time ago put in the mouth of
| Herbert Spencer the words—
Appearances, he seems to think, do not exhaust totality,
But indicate that underneath there’s some unknown reality,
I conveys the idea to which a disciple of the old schoolmen is led.
| Friends will bear with me if my spectacles are twenty-one
j hundred years old. They are the best I have.
I have as yet failed to obtain any solution of the extra-
| ordinary message, “ 133 is Charles F. Crokats.” Whatever
| meaning may be attached to it, the whole subject was
I entirely unknown to Dr. Slade, and as seventeen years have
I now elapsed, the matter is not now in my memory,
j
| ^ ZSGCOOSCCCCCCC
I MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA AMONG THE INDIANS.
BY GRANVILLE T. SPROAT.
The most remarkable case of materialisation among the
| Indians that came to my notice, during my twelve years of
! residence among them, was during the summer of 1836, of
! which I noted down the particulars at the time, and of which
| the following is the history:—
Ke-che Be-zhe-kee, or Big Buffalo, as he was called by
| the Americans, was at that time chief of that band of Ojib-
I way Indians who dwelt on the south-west shores of Lake
| Superior, and were best known by the name of the “ Lake
I Indians.” He was wise and sagacious in council, a great
| orator, and was reverenced by the Indians for his supposed
■ intercourse with the Man-i-toes, or spirits, from whom they
| believed he derived much of his eloquence and wisdom in
I governing the affairs of the tribe.
In the summer of 1836, his only son, a young man of rare
| promise, suddenly sickened and died. The old chief was
| almost inconsolable for his loss, and, as a token of his affec-
| tion for his son, had him dressed and laid in the grave in the
| same military coat, together with the sword and epaulets,
| which he had received a few months before as a present from
| the Great Father at Washington. He also had placed
| beside him his favourite dog, to be his companion on his
| journey to the land of souls.
One morning, a few months after his death, the old chief
| came to my wigwam, his step light and elastic like a child,
I his form erect, and his face lighted up as if he had just
I received some new and joyful intelligence.
“ I have seen him,” he said; “ I have seen him whom we
| mourned as dead! I have seen him, and he is still alive ! ”
| “ Seen him ! when ?” I asked. “ Yesterday, in the Me-ta-wa
| (sacred dance). We were all assembled together in the great
| dancing lodge of the chiefs, to worship before the Great
| Spirit, and On-wi came there and joined us.” “ What! in
11 your dance before the Great Spirit ? Did you speak to him ? ”
I | “ We did, and he spoke to us.” “ What did he say?” “He
j | said it was weakness for us to mourn for him. He had gone
111 to the happy hunting grounds, far better than these on the
u I cold shores of the lake. He mentioned some of those whom
Is'j he had seen, particularly Man-i-bo-zho and Ah-ke-wain-ze,
| who had welcomed him there.” “ Did he join with you in the
| dance ? ” “ He did. We all danced before the Great Spirit.
I On-wi danced with us. His step was light as a fawn. His
I face was bright as the sky overhead. I wish you could have
I seen him. It made our hearts glad and joyful as the birds in
| spring. After the dance we all sat down and smoked the pipe
j of peace together.” “ But how do you know it was Ou-wi
j whom you saw ? May it not have been some one of the tribe
who counterfeited him, with his face painted with the sacred
| emblems which you wear in the dance ? ” “ Did I not mark
I his form, his features, his every look ? Was he not dressed
| in the very coat I gave him, a present from the Great Father
| at Washington ? Who else in all the tribe has a coat like
; that? How then could I be deceived? ” “ And vou—every
52
THE SPIRITUALIST. Sept. 1, 1876.
one of you—saw him ? ” 11 Every one of us. Ask the aged m
men, and they will tell you. The wisest men of the tribe jh
were there. Could they, too, be deceived? Have they got |){
eyes, and do not see straight forward ? Have they got ears, m
and do not hear what is spoken to them ? Ask them, and m
they will tell you the truth. Their tongues are not hung in |||
the middle, speaking lies at both ends, like the pale faces. j>[
The toes of their feet do not turn outward, so that they walk m
two ways at once, like them. They keep straight forward |||
in the path. Ask them, and they will tell you the truth.” j>j
I did ask them, and heard from them the same report K|
brought to me by the old chief concerning his son. For |n
many days it was the theme of conversation in every wigwam j||
of the camp. The old men spoke of it in an undertone, with I j
their heads bowed, as if in reverence ; and one day, while j j
walking through the camp, I saw Wah-chus-co, the great j j
seer of the tribe, standing amidst a group of earnest listeners, | j
and, with a great burst of eloquence, telling them how | j
Ee-che Man-i-to made the two worlds round, like the sun, | |
for so the spirits had taught him ; and, taking a piece of j j
birch bark, and drawing on it two spheres touching each j j
other, he pictured to them whole bands of joyous spirits pass- ill
ing irom one to the other, thus bringing together the inha- jll
hitants of the seen and unseen worlds.—The Shaker. i I
j) I.
THE NECESSITY FOR TEST CONDITIONS. j j
Enthusiastic Spiritualists, who walk by faith and frequently come to j/j
grief, sometimes make hard remarks about their brethren who prefer HI
that little about the phenomena shall be published, except when sup- (
ported by the best of evidence. The possession of physical mediumship |) j
is not always a guarantee of truthfulness and honesty, and where the i (i
latter are wanting the spirits are not unfrequently worse than the |(]
medium. American Spiritualism has suffered another blow from the j/i
dishonesty of a genuine medium named Flint, who called himself j(j
“Doctor Flint,” and who henceforth will rank with Buguet, the j!j
Holmeses, Melville Fay, and the like. Tfo Banner of Light gives no j)i
information about Flint’s doings, but The Spiritual Scientist says a l|j
little about them. For the following more complete particulars we are !(|
indebted to the Dublin Evening Mail of August 21st:—
Early last year Mrs. Flint obtained a limited divorce from her hus- I {j
hand, “Dr.” Rufus Wagner Flint, the court awarding her eleven dols. |\|
a week alimony, and 250 dols. counsel’s fee. Flint failed to pay these m
sums, and was sent to jail, and on a writ of habeas corpus sought dis- |)j
charge on the ground that he was unable to pay. Mrs. Flint proceeded |<j
to prove his ability, and to do this explained in detail the business of ||j
her husband as a spiritual medium. Flint is what is known in America i/i
as a “letter-answering” medium. He advertises that, for two dols. in |(|
advance, he will answer sealed letters addressed to spirits in “the nj
summer land.” In his circular he says, “ The spirit letters [those sent ijj
sealed to him to be answered by the departed] should be securely sealed, j(j
addressed to the spirit, giving his or her name in full, and signed by the j)!
writer in full, but no address on the envelope. When left open they j)|
cannot be answered, my agency being only efficient when my mind is Hi
passive and blank to both questions and answers.” Mrs. Flint brought l)|
into court a small steam instrument, like a tea-kettle, with which she I (j
testified that Flint would open the sealed letters before he answered
them. She also brought a book into which Flint had entered several l)j
thousand “spirit letters,” which he had received from his patrons, |(i
opened, copied into this book, sealed up again, and returned to their 1)1
writers with answers from the departed. She brought also piles of the j)
letters which enclosed the “spirit letters,” with two dols., and which. Hj
were addressed to Flint. Among the inquirers were persons well known |)1
to the public. The World newspaper has published a large number of j)|
these letters. The mortification of the exposed writers made cruel stuff jo
for popular ridicule and laughter. .. !) j
The Facts of Consciousness.—Take courage, souls. The great j j
central orb of day is an atom of dust, is a speck and flame that expires, jji
compared to the light that shines for you. The worlds are nothing ; 'j)j
they pale and sink into insignificance, and are as flakes of snow com- j|j
pared to that prophecy which is revealed to your spirits by the Hj
analysis of a single ray of light; for if these splendours be so great, and jji
these powers that have no consciousness are alive with prophecy, what, j)!
then, are these yearnings of the soul 1 What, then, the prophets and jji
seers, the poets and sages of time, that have not only revealed the actual 1(1
sunlight of the spirit in their lives, but have given to the earth the j)j
condensed and compressed sunlight of thousands of years of spiritual jji
growth? Take courage, feeblest of human intellects, faltering upon. Hi
the verge of doubt and confusion, uncertain as to whether the mind. H j
lives or no. If out of the flame from the darkest substance there comes- jji
the bright vermilion and the green, showing that the sun has been j(j
there, so out of the pitchy darkness of thy life the bright crucible of jjj
the spirit may reveal the evidence of God’s presence, for the prophecy jji
has been spoken, and the seed has been sown, that shall liberate those |)j
imprisoned thoughts within,—Ilfrs. Tappan, I ill
A STORY OF A WEEPING PICTURE.
(From a paper entitled “Bought and Sold in the Last Century,” in Temple Bar, Vol. 42,
pp. 203—4, Aug. to Nov., 1874.)
Incidentally may here be mentioned, though not strictly within the
limits of art history, the wonderful power which was exercised this year
(1710) by a portrait of the period. In the Post Angel, a weekly paper
of the time, to every article in which is appended a “ spiritual observa¬
tion” by the editor, there appears the following quaint and curious
letter:—
“ Rev. Sirs. I was inform’d that the following Instance was buzz’d
in Town and my curiosity led me to search the truth on’t. Mr. Rich¬
mond at the Golden Bull in Eagle Street being severely handled in his
last sickness, and Death making some sensible Approaches, the Effigies
of his former Wife began to weep; the Tears trickl’d in such plenty from
the Eyes of the Picture that they fell on the Hand of a child that was
painted in her Arms, and thence dropt down on a Chest of Drawers.
The Miracle continued while he lay in his last Agonies ; but so soon as
he expired the Picture left weeping, and all was dried up. If any Un¬
believer be so curious as to enquire, he may receive satisfaction from
Mr. Wilson, who lives next door to the Half Moon in Noble Street,
which borders on Goswell Street.”
Nothing more is recorded of this picture.
Witchcraft.—A case recently tried by the Correctional Tribunal of
Montbrison (Loire) reveals the fact that the belief in sorcerers still
lingers in some parts of France. A man named Jean Baron, thirty-
seven years of age, a small landed proprietor of Poncins, believed that
for the past two or three years he had been the victim of occult influ¬
ences from some of his neighbours whom he suspected to be jealous of
his prosperous condition. His cows were constantly ill, and the mere
sight of the supposed sorcerers was sufficient to make him so unwell
that, as he said, he got on the point of death. In vain he had con¬
sulted some distinguished physicians, going even to Lyons for the
purpose ; and he finally resolved to put in practice the advice given
him by some reapers the previous year—being to draw some blood from
the sorcerers in order to break the charm. He therefore waited his
opportunity at church, and after service rushed at those whom he
accused of the witchcraft, struck them several violent blows, and then
ran some steel pins deep in the flesh of each of his assumed enemies.
He was, in consequence, cited to appear before the Tribunal for these
acts, and he admitted having driven pins into a man named Raynaud
and his wife, and a girl named Jeannette Badieu, but denied the blows,
explaining that he had no occasion to give them ; all that he wanted
was to draw a little blood ; ~ which,” said he, with a joyous air, “I
managed to do, and since that period I am perfectly cured, as well as
my beasts.” Notwithstanding the efforts of the President to make
him understand that there were neither sorcerers nor witchcraft in the
world, he could only obtain this reply, “ But I was ill every time I
met them ; and now that I have drawn some blood from them their
sight produces no effect whatever on me, and I am perfectly cured ; I
have, therefore, reason to believe that they had cast on me an evil eye.”
The penalty of fifteen days’ imprisonment inflicted on him did not in
the slightest degree disturb his serenity, happy at having re-established
his health at so cheap a rate.
Religious Ideas in the Tyrol.—The shepherd or herdsman hears
the storm howling of a night round the frail walls of his chalet, and
has to follow the stragglers of his flock into perilous places. Some¬
times he may have to get a handful of his goats to some patch of grass
among the precipices, where less sure-footed sheep could only be taken
on his shoulders; and if even the goats cannot be got to the grass, he
must go up and cut it and bring it down to them. The lot of the
woodcutter is even more perilous, and nothing can be more full of
danger than the work he undertakes when disengaging the stems of
fallen trees, that have got jammed in their descent, from the sluices in
the mountains. Familiarity with these dangers breeds contempt of
them, whereby fatal accidents are of more frequent occurrence. Con¬
stantly in his walks Mr. White came upon a cross of wood, with a rude
inscription, telling how So-and-so had miserably perished, and imploring
the prayers of the passer-by for his soul. The little mountain chapels
are filled with votive offerings, and hung with pictorial representations
of miraculous escapes. You see a mower slipping towards the brink
of a precipice, his hat and scythe already disappearing, or a party
being dug out of the snow with which an avalanche has overwhelmed
them. But a priest is depicted on his knees hard by, while the Virgin
is hovering among the clouds overhead ; and it is made plain that the
prayers of the devout pastor have prevailed upon our Merciful Lady
to interpose. The people submit themselves implicitly to priestly
authority, and hold fast to the Catholic religion. As very few of them
can write or read, they are brought but little in contact with modern
ideas. Yet, from what Mr. White has to tell us of the spread of
liberalism among the more cultivated classes and the more prosperous
citizens of the town, it is plain that counteracting influences are at
work, and that Tyrol must soon cease to be the impregnable strong¬
hold of clericalism. You may listen to conversations at the tables
d’hdte which, some years ago, must infallibly have condemned the
speakers to a villegiatura in a State fortress at the Government
expense. Towns that used to vote at the beck of their bishop are now
indulging themselves with Radical municipalities, and returning Radi¬
cal members to the Reichsrath. It seems to be becoming the fashion
among more advanced thinkers to profess an ardent admiration for
English institutions, although sentiment has more to say to this than
knowledge ; while Mr. White came in contact with Protestant clergy¬
men, who appeared to be highly satisfied with their flocks and the pro¬
gress of their proselytising labours.—Pall Mall Gazette,
Sept. 1, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
A PENCIL WHITING BY INVISIBLE AGENCY IN THE j j
PRESENCE OF WITNESSES. j j
{From the “ Malvern News.,'s) ; |!
This week we were invited to attend, in Malvern, a seance ||;|
with. Dr. Monck, a medium, who, till last Saturday, had j |
never before visited this fashionable watering place. The | j
house in which the seances we are about to describe took j )
place he had never entered till the evening we saw him. | |
Shortly after six o’clock, several ladies and gentlemen having j j
assembled, most of them strangers to each other, sat down ! j
to an oblong deal table, which had been covered with a | |
thick Witney blanket, the usual cover being used as a blind | |
to darken the windows. Every particle of natural light had | j
been shut out, and the gas turned on full. After the party ; j
had sat some time, chatting on general topics, the medium jl
ordered the gas to be turned out. This was done, and the jl
assembly began to sing. The room was in this condition j j
five minutes or more. When the singing ceased the gas j j
was ordered to be lighted, one of the lady sitters expressing j j
a wish that she might see some beautiful spirit. She knew j j
all about the ordinary manifestations, and was impatient for j j
something grand. The medium told her that he could j i
control nothing, but that she must patiently wait and I j
accept what was given. The gas was turned down, when j j
several of the party said they saw spirit lights on other I
persons in the room, most of them being on a sceptic j
present. All of a sudden the musical instrument and the j
album were suddenly jerked up, falling on the left hand of j
the impatient lady. The light was now turned on, and Dr. j
Monck asked for a pencil and some writing paper. Three of j
the former were placed at his disposal, and he selected ours. j
A piece of paper was folded up, on which the pencil was j
put. He then borrowed some handkerchiefs, and selected j
ours, which he carelessly threw over the pencil and paper. j
In the full glare of the gas-light the pencil rose and stood, i
upright, Dr. Monck’s hands at this time being placed on j
his head. He removed the handkerchief, and there stood j
the pencil, but no writing was on the paper. The sceptical j
gentleman thought the pencil was sticking into the table j
through the blanket. At the request of Dr. Monck he j
lifted it up, examined it, and put it down. It was no j
sooner released than it rose up again, and wrote on the j
paper a sentence, in the sight of all, respecting the un- j
favourable conditions. Dr. Monck now placed in front of j
him a small bell, which soon began to raise itself, and rang. j
The sceptical gentleman was allowed to examine it, and, as j j
the clapper was below rim of the bell, admitted that he j j
could not tell how it rang when on the table. The medium j I
put the forefinger of his right hand on the handle, when it i j
rose in the air, rang, and kept suspended about a minute, j j
Dr. Monck here produced a book-slate, which was cleaned j !
by the sceptical gentleman, and examined by all. The m
medium broke off a small piece of slate pencil, about the j j
size of a grain of wheat, placing it between the covers. He j |
requested the brother to the impatient lady to sit at a corner j j
of the table and place it on his head, and held it there with
his left hand, Dr. Monck holding it by one corner. A j j
materialised hand was then seen by the sitters working be- j j
tween the two. The young man, after a few seconds, took j j
down the slate, opened it, the following being found legibly j j
written on it, but the pencil was gone—not used up— !> j
“ The power is weak. You have been too positive. Be
tranquil another time. “ Samuel.”
This was understood to be a message to the impatient young if
lady. When they were all wondering what had become of j j
the pencil, it fell on the middle of the table. After a few j j
other little matters, Dr. Monck asked a young lady to sit at j
one corner of the table. She was seated in an ordinary j j
cane-bottomed chair. The gas was slightly lowered, and j j
with his hands held over her, she and the chair rose in the j j
air, and at his request she placed her feet on the table, she j j
being in the attitude of reclining as on a couch. In that j
position she remained about five minutes, when she was j j
gently lowered on to the floor, the chair going with her. A j j
few personal messages were rapped out—and the seance j j
closed. I
We have here written a particular account of what oc- ||
curred in the presence of nine sane ladies and gentlemen, Wl
53
and as some of them are well known in Malvern, they can
contradict us if we have stated what is not true. We have
nothing extenuated, nor aught set down in malice. To ex¬
plain how these things were done is out of our power ; and
so we leave it, exclaiming with the Spaniard, gui en sabe?
CHINESE TRANCE AND CLAIRVOYANT MEDIUMS.
A very extraordinary religious sect has (the Celestial Empire says)
recently sprung into life at a place called Seaou-sban Hien, in Che¬
kiang. Its head-quarters are at a ruined temple near a small market
village, formerly dedicated to a deity called the Wei-to P‘u-sa, in
immediate proximity with which are a few houses, thatched with grass,
but scrupulously clean, where some of the leaders of the society reside.
The movement is said to have had its rise in the ecstasies of a couple
of old women, aged respectively upwards of eighty and fifty, who are
mother and daughter; these are the high priestesses, or sybils, and at
certain times become inspired by a particular P‘u-sa or spirit, with whom
they hold frequent intercourse, and whose utterances, through the
medium of the women, are regarded as divine oracles. Passing by this
neighbourhood during the daytime everything is quiet; there is nothing
whatever to attract attention. At night, however, the scene is said to
be most remarkable. The place is crowded with people, all come to
consult the Pythoness, or to hear what it is all about—people of every
description, men and women, rich and poor, bad and good. The
interior of the temple is brightly lighted, and there is generally a deal
of eating and drinking ; for this sect, unlike most of the others, en¬
courages high living, and condemns vegetarianism. Seated upon a high
dais are the two old women, with candles burning on either side of them,
and the people worship them with incense and joss-sticks, as incarna¬
tions of the P‘u-sa. Some of the ecstatics pretend to have visions of
this deity, and all the oracles delivered by the priestesses are unswervedly
obeyed. One of the peculiar regulations of the sect is the adjuring of
all silken clothes ; nothing is worn but the simplest cotton. The initiated
are firmly believed to be endowed with magical powers, and to be able
to drive men mad with incantations and the administration of curious
poisons. The number of adherents is rapidly increasing, and though
the sect has only been in existence a few weeks, it counts already
upwards of seven hundred members.
Persecutions of the Jews by Christians.—In Moorish Spain they
enjoy a sort of Elysian life to what they had experienced from
Christian countries. But in that portion of Spain governed by Christian
monarchs their treatment was again terrible. In Seville, Cordova,
Toledo, Valencia, and Island of Majorca, from 1391 to 1392, immense
numbers were murdered, and wholesale theft was perpetrated by the
religious rabble. Escape was possible only through flight to Africa, or
by accepting baptism at the point of the sword. The number of their
enforced converts to Christianity is reckoned at 200,000. The fate of
the Jews in Spain during the fifteenth century beggars description. Perse¬
cution, violent conversion, massacre, the torture of the Inquisition, we
read of nothing but these. Thousands were burned alive. In one year
280 were burned in Seville alone. In 1492 Ferdinand and Isabella
issued an edict for the expulsion, within four months, of all who refused
to become Christians. The Jews offered an enormous sum for its re¬
vocation, but Torquemada, the Dominican Inquisitor-General, dared to
compare his royal master and mistress to Judas; they shrank from the
awful accusation, and 800,000 Jews resolved to abandon the country.
The incidents that marked their departure were heartrending. Almost
every land was shut against them. In 1455 King Emanuel commanded
them to quit his territories, but at the same time issued a secret order
that all Jewish children under fourteen years of age should be torn
from their mothers, returned to Portugal, and brought up as Christians.
Agony drove the Jewish mothers into madness ! They destroyed their
children with their own hands, and threw them into mills and rivers to
prevent them from falling into the hands of their persecutors.—
Chambers's Encyclopedia.
An Official Report Examined.—The agenda of the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists has just reached us with the first “Official Report”
printed thereon. In it Mr. Dawson Rogers is made to deny having in¬
structed Mrs. Blake to draw up a I’eport of the Council meeting, and it is
asserted that Mrs. Blake confirmed the above statement made by Mr.
Rogers. This was not the case. Mrs. Blake has said all along that
Mr. Rogers instructed her to do this work as much as anybody could
instruct her to do anything. Instead of confirming Mr. Rogers’ state ■
ment at the meeting, she merely said that she had repeated to Mr.
Harrison “ what Mr. Rogers said ’’ had passed between them on the
point. We may add that at the Council meeting Mr, Rogers made such
an excessively violent speech that Mr. Fitz-Gerald rose and rebuked
him—that Mr. Newbould asked him whether he was fully aware of
what he had been saying—and that a third member of the Council
remarked that nothing could do the Council such inj ury as a verbatim
report of what was then taking place. All these speeches, in opposition
to Mr. Rogers, are omitted from the official report; so, likewise, are his
own violent remarks. In the report all the speeches on one side have been
omitted, with the exception of three lines allotted to Mr. Fitz-Gerald.
Further, it is noteworthy that three of the four members who drew up
the report are Messrs. Bennett, Rogers, and Algernon Joy, and that in
the official report scarcely any besides their own sayings are printed,
the remarks of all the other unfortunate members of the Council being
almost entirely left out. Mr. Fitz-Gerald made an excellent speech at
the meeting, but less than three lines thereof are printed. It would
have materially altered the general tendency of the official record, had
both sides been reported therein.
5i
THE SPIRITTTALIST.
Sept. If 1876.
SPIRITUALISM IN CONTINENTAL EUROPE.
No. nr. [
BT EMILY KISLINGBUBT. |
Paris, August 25th. ji
The excessive heat of the weather last week, joined to the j!
kind solicitations of Prince Wittgenstein and his family, h
whom I was then visiting at St. Valery-en-Caux, induced j
me to defer my visit to Paris until quite the last days of my j
absence from London. This will account to you for my j
tardiness in sending my promised letter. I
A. VISIT TO THE PERSECUTED M. LEYMARIE. ] |
The first step to be taken on my arrival here was to pre- h
sent my seif at the Prefecteur de Police, to receive in person j
a permit of entrance into La Sante, the prison where M. !
Leymarie is detained. It was duly impressed upon me that l
it was a great favour, 'par exception, and not to be abused, h
The visit was made this morning. After passing innumer- |
able doors, guarded by grim-looking officials, I was intro- |J
duced into a tiny sort of box, divided into two parts by an j!
iron or zinc trellis, through which the prisoner and the j
visitor can just touch fingers, not shake hands. The warder Ji
examined the wires, to see that there were no loop-holes, so i
that written communications could only be exchanged by j
being rolled up very tight, in packets no thicker than your j/j
thumb. Of this arrangement one of course takes due i ij
advantage. M. Leymarie seemed rejoiced at my visit, which j j
he regards as a representative act on the part of English |jl
Spiritualists. He looked pale and rather thin, but his health j j
remains unimpaired, and he conversed cheerfully with me j j
for nearly an hour. He says that he is very particular to | !
take as much exercise in his cell as its size will allow. The ! |
length is five paces, the width two and a half, and part of | |
the space is occupied by his bed. ||
The petition for pardon, with the signatures attached, has | j
been presented, and I went with Mme. Leymarie to the | |
Ministere de la Justice to see the secretary on the subject. |||
We were received by one of the under secretaries, who said j
that as, in the absence of the chiefs, a large amount of work |
rested on the shoulders of a few officials, no answer could |
be given under three weeks from that time. Madame Ley- j
marie, whose courage is something admirable, especially in j
a country where the people bow down before officialism, I
then pleaded in eloquent terms on behalf of her husband. |
The secretary said he was very sorry; that it was not for him j
to judge ; but that he found in the book of the trial, which j
Mme. Leymarie had sent him, several letters proving her j
husband’s complicity in the Buguet frauds. “Indeed, sir !” j
said Madame Leymarie, “ then pray show them to me; I u
am the compiler of that book, and should like to see one j
word in it which reflects upon my husband’s honesty.” The j
secretary then closed the book, in which he was seeking for |
the proofs of his assertion, and did not refer to it again. I I
put in a few words to the efiect that the signatures to the |
petition were genuine, many having been written under my j
own eye, and that they had been appended as a mark of [
esteem for the character of M. Leymarie. The fact that j 1
Firman had been set free was greatly in his favour, we were j
told, and we left the Halls of Justice, feeling that hope was !
not yet quite extinguished, nor charity quite dead in the j
breasts of French officials. j
CAPTURE AND IMPRISONMENT OP BUOUET. '' •])
I think it is not yet known in England that Buguet has |
been recaptured, or, rather, has given himself up to justice, i
and is at present at La Sante, where he will have to work |
out his full year. The mistress of the photographic |
establishment in Belgium, where he was employed, being !
herself impecunious and unable to pay her assistants, had j
Buguet arrested (unjustly, it appears) on a charge of theft. I
She then informed the authorities in Paris that she had j
found the notorious spirit-photographer, and, at last, Buguet |
himself, to avoid further complications, requested that he |
might be at once removed to Paris to work out the full term |j
of his imprisonment. He has been at La Sante for two H
months, and, being an artist, has been appointed super- |!
jntendent of the artificial flower-making, for which he also r
draws the designs. His wife and children are living in
Paris in great distress and poverty.
PARISIAN PSYCHOLOGISTS AND REINCARNATIONISTS.
As with us, at this season of the year, many Spiritualists
are absent from the capital. I have seen as many as pos¬
sible in the three days I have spent here, including the aged
Mme. Allan Kardec, who, at eighty-three, is as active as
most ladies of thirty-eight; Baron Du Potet, also an octo¬
genarian ; Dr. Doherty and M. Chavee, not Spiritualists,
but philosophers of the Borderland.
All have shown me the greatest kindness, for which I
hereby tender them my sincerest thanks. Mr. Gledstanes
has been my ever-ready and constant guide; Mme. Ley¬
marie has been most friendly and obliging, in the midst of
her numerous anxieties and occupations; the Comte de
Bullet has done me the favour to arrange a seance with
Firman, which is to come off to-morrow, and Mdlle. Huet
has given a soiree in my honour, at which I met some
interesting people, principally reincarnationists.
With the exception of Comte de Bullet, all those I have
met abroad are believers in reincarnation, and regard that
doctrine as the foundation-stone of Spiritualist morality. If
it be true, they say, that we cannot pass to higher spheres
until we have learned all the lessons of earth-life, that every
fault, whether born of ignorance or design, must be expiated
either on this planet or some lower one, will not men learn
to be careful how they spend their present existence ? They
regret, however, and M. Leymarie in particular (and he
desired that I would express this for him), that difference of
opinion on this head should be made a ground of reviling
between Spiritualists and reincarnationists, who have all
the same cause at heart, though working at different ends of
the stick.
We represent physics, they morality; let us hope that in
this subject science and religion are not taking divergent
paths, but are both working to the same end, and will
ultimately arrive at one goal. For my part, I feel that it is
so, and that a little more international intercourse will
establish both parties on a permanent basis of friendship.
An interesting case has occurred in the south of France of
the seizure of a healing medium, but as I intend to give a
translation of the case in full from the coming number of the
Revue Spirite, I will not speak further of it here.
I have omitted to state that, before leaving Boulogne, I
made the acquaintance of Mr. H. Gr. Atkinson, who expressed
himself well pleased with the liberal attitude taken up by
the National Association of Spiritualists, of which, on the
footing of an inquirer, he desires to become a member.
THE NUMBER OF SPIRITUALISTS IN FRANCE.
Paris, August 26.
I found it impossible to arrive at anything like statistics
with regard to the number of Spiritualists in Paris or in
France. Beyond the names of subscribers to the Revue, I
was told that it would be impolitic to attempt to keep any
register at the Rue de Lille; because, in case the
papers and books should be seized at any time, the names of
Spiritualists would become known to the authorities ; and,
though the Republican motto is Libertt, Egalite, Fraternite,
there is still so little of the first of these in France, as to
make the two others a dead letter. For the same reason the
society was registered as The Joint Stock Company for the
Continuation of the Works of Allan Kardec, no mention
being made in the articles of the tendency of the works, nor
of Spiritualism. If it had not been for this precaution, the
whole of the property on the premises at the Rue de Lille
would have been confiscated during the late persecutions; as
it was, several thousand copies of the Revue were seized by
the police, but were afterwards restored, with offensive
marginal notes on some of the pages, such as Vimbecile,
against a name well-known in high places. All meetings
and seances have been given up for the present at the Rue
de Lille. In no case can more than twenty-one persons
assemble in a private house in France without the presence
of the police; but all the gens-d’’armes who attended the
Kardec meetings became so interested in the proceedings,
that they became by degrees secret but fervent adherents of
the cause. Thus Spiritualism spreads by the very means
taken to crush and hinder its growth.
1,1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
55
BEYOND.
What is there beyond ?
Hear what the wise and good have said. Beyond
That belt of darkness still the years roll on
More gently, bnt with not less mighty sweep.
They gather np again and softly bear
All the sweet lives that late were overwhelmed
And lost to sight—all that in them was good,
Noble, and truly great and worthy of love—
The lives of infants and ingenuous youths,
Sages and saintly women who have made
Their households happy—all are raised and borne
By that great current in its onward sweep,
Wandering and rippling with caressing waves
Around green islands, fragrant with the breath
Of flowers that never wither. So they pass,
Prom stage to stage, along the shining course
Of that fair river broadening like a sea.
As its smooth eddies curl along their way,
They bring old friends together; hands are clasped
In joy unspeakable ; the mother’s arms
Again are folded round the child she loved
And lost. Old sorrows are forgotten now,
Or but remembered to make sweet the hour
That over pays them; wounded hearts that bled
Or broke are healed for Bryant.
dtomsponnence.
0rt*i frn4om i$ given io eorrupondents, who sometime* express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its reader*]
SPIRITUALISM WITHOUT SPIRITUALITT.
Sir,—As a dispassionate investigator of the now widely-admitted
facts of Spiritualism, I was allowed, at the last National Association
Conference, to defend the action of the secular press in exposing all
well-witnessed cases of medial imposture. I still maintain—in the face
of much glaring unfairness on the part of certain editors—that Spirit¬
ualism, ere now, would have been rotten to the core, and repulsive
beyond compare, had not the outside press dealt promptly with the
unavoidable monetary humbugs of the movement—the non-sensitive
claimants for medial honour and reward. And in this matter The
Spiritualist has many times outrun the less sympathetic secular jour¬
nals, in fearlessly showing up the “ performers ” of false phenomena.
Nothing has been concealed, and no proved imposture explained away.
Hence the widely-increasing popularity of this journal, and the con¬
tinual reference to its cautious reports by the high-class morning
newspapers in London and the provinces.
* But may I not ask, now that the phenomena are so well established,
when will Spiritualism create, and sustain a morality? Without a
religion—of goodness and of God—without commandments of high
spiritual purity, without a decalogue of intense poetical clearness of
principle, and without aspirations of progressive moral sweetness of
character and disposition, mankind will be little benefited by startling
visions, and the less flexible creeds of the day will continue to be the
pet beliefs of thoughtful men, whilst heaven inspires earth with the
beauty of holiness. If Spiritualism he indeed a fact, goodness must
follow its revelations as an abiding virtue. It must make clean hearts
with philosophic breadth of feeling, and unite itself to the Holy Ghost,
uncramped by creeds which fetter the adventurous understanding of
honest, enlightened, and devoutly-inquiring men. It must be a fra¬
grant, soul-ennobling Spiritualism, if it is to regenerate, cheer, and
bless the world ; and come upon us in our best and holiest moments, as
a grand truth, subject to scientific side-lights and guidance, and fill us
with the song-music of a sure and certain hope, such as a poet of the
Atlantic Monthly felt, not so long ago:—
Peace ! and from her starry station
Came white-pinioned Contemplation,
White and mystical and silent as the moonlight’s sheeted wraith ;
Through my utter melancholy
Stole a rapture still and holy,
Something deeper than all doubting, something greater than all faith.
Yes, we want the inspiration to noble deeds of love, brotherhood, and
manly self-abnegation, and the chivalry of belief which points to better
lives, newer scenes, and other possible worlds of wonder, family asso¬
ciations, and limitless research. If we pant for a promised land, and
desire the activity of changed citizenship, we must not linger, with fond
flesh notions, too long by the Dead Sea.
Nor must we sneer at less authenticated beliefs. The Catholic and
Protestant religions may take on Spiritualism with increased devotional
awe, through a revival of revelation; and Patmos—^relieved of the mys¬
terious—can be invited through temperamental channels to be cross-
examined and interpreted with nineteenth century wisdom. If our
senses can be trusted in this scientific opening of the graves, or rather
this converse with non-etherial shadows; and if seances can be redeemed
from tempted “imposture,” placed beyond vulgar surroundings, and
protected from the damning dangers of pounds, shillings, and pence
(which has hitherto underlied all the “ scandals ” of Spiritualism), why
should the popular Churches continue to ignore these astounding
psychological phenomena, which, if true, must surely revolutionise the
materialistic thought of a non-spiritual, iron-hearted, half-animal age.
Spiritualism may, after all, come to the front as an ugly flesh-and-
blood exhibition. It should be the most truly poetic of all communica¬
tive events in human experience. The ideal and spiritual beauty of
many of the high class “trance” utterances of its most eloquent ab¬
normal apostles—Emma Hardinge, Cora Tappan, and Mr. Morse—
indicate touches of the sublime coming through the gates ajar; but un¬
fortunately, this beautiful other-world order, is not maintained in the
circles where the “ghosts” are most obliging and familiar, How is
this ? And why does the music we hear occasionally seem as if it had
never kissed the heavenly gates ? Although I am a comparative out¬
sider to the movement, I can recall a more attractive period of English
Spiritualistic history. The subject has always had an intelligent
fascination for me as a young literary student, with warm imaginative
interest in the occult and poetical in nature. Commend to me, there¬
fore, the more “ spiritual ” Spiritualism of the days of Mrs. Marshall, of
D. D. Home, and other mediums, who sat in a “ dim religious light,”
and evolved congenial perfumes, “ spirit-voices,” music without instru¬
ments; and “ messages ” that were hallowed in conception, and conse¬
crated to half-religious issues in actions and opinions. Those were the
preternatural trysting days—the “two worlds” parlour gossip, the
“ soft footsteps of angels,” period, when such estimable men as S. C.
Hall (of the Art Journal), and other eminent Litterateurs, gave audi¬
ence to the “ spirits,” with full communion of soul, and when W
Howitt, Enmore Jones, B. Coleman, and others were giving to quiet,
family seances the splendid dignity of an unearthly ceremonial.
If we say that Spiritualism has, in many cases, been made the con¬
venient social covering—especially in America—for heinous practices,
extravagant opinions, and seance habits, more selfish than spirituelle,
we only fairly mention a deplored fact. The doctrines of “ Free Love,”
and other radical tamperings with the sanctity of domestic life, must not
be taken as an example of accepted ghost communion in its higher moral
developments. In England, and in Southern Europe, the new faith is
spreading so rapidly in fashionable and refined circles—in suburban
mansions and in the palaces of royalty—that it must perforce imbibe the
culture which has become its influential patron, and find expression in
more responsible types of educated moral elevation. For some time
back Spiritualism has been in the travail of scientific demonstration,
with more than partial success. As a unique literary attraction, it has
a commendable status. Let it create a morality, equal to the abstract
outlines of its novel trance-spoken philosophy, and its rough tempera¬
mental solution of the anxious query, “ Where are the dead ?” will soon
command universal attention. J. T. Markley.
3, Crawthorn-street, Peterborough.
A PROPHECY.
Sir,—The East has always had the privilege of impassioning
(passioner) souls. It has been the cradle of the human race, and from
it all religions have drawn their legends. For a long time past the
Oriental question has been hanging over political Europe like a dark
cloud; the storm has gathered, the darkness has spread, and it cannot
be long before the thunder sounds, for an explosion alone can dis¬
sipate the anguish felt by the world.
This state of things induced me on the 23rd of March last to evoke
Mahomet. He replied in Arabic (but I begged him to write in French),
“ All that I have said was right and true ; the power is tottering, the
Koran remains; Mahomet has spoken, God has willed it—so shall it
be.”
These words arrested my attention, “All that I said was right.”
This referred, then, to the past.
“ Bo you hnovo me ? ”
“ Yes; I have already spoken to you.’’
So the above communication, given through the mediumship of
Caterina, a mechanical writing medium, had connection with those I
had myself received, as an intuitive writing medium, when I was in
Mexico in 1859, There was an evident interest in referring to the fact,
and what I now transcribe is the communication kept since then.
I had asked the question, i What must be augured of Panslavism
from a general, political, and Spiritualistic point of view of Europe ? ”
(29th January, 1859.)
A.—Mahomet comes to answer that. The question you ask is one
of those in which he is permitted to see the future; it is intimately con¬
nected with the conversion of the Turks, and with the power that will
he given to Russia in the East. Panslavism is destined to disintegrate
Austria, and to reconstitute Poland. Behold, all has disappeared. No
more Austria, no more Rome; no more British Empire in the East.
Ireland, that victim of so many centuries, has again hoisted the green
colours of her standard. Poland lives again, Spiritualistic and proud,
under the protection of Alexander and Napoleon IV. Italy sings her
deliverance, and is now nothing but a large confederacy. France has
recovered her territory in the Alps and the Rhine, and her moral power
sways the world. And Russia! her chief pope of the Greek faith has
been converted to Spiritualism, and with him all the nations confessing
orthodoxy and Panslavism have entered into the movement, and have
carried with them all the peoples of Slavonic origin. The Turks, alas ! or
rather, glory be to God! have perished by their own disintegration;
their empire will have finally disappeared by the time Europe shall be
delivered from the horrors of the great war, which will last two years.
The day of her regeneration will come, and the apostle of Jesus will
convert the followers of the Koran now deprived of their empire. A
new monarch will mount the throne of Constantinople, and the Turks
in their turn will become disciples of Christianity, and, spreading them -
selves in the East, will convert the countless populations swarming
there. India will no longer belong to the English, whose foreign
dominions will be reduced to nothing. India will belong to herself,
under the double protection of France and Russia, the two eldest
daughters of Spiritualism, to whom will be given an almost unlimited
power, in order that the new faith may be developed under the shadow
of her prosperity. Rome will be the capital of the new spiritual
kingdom.”
On the 12th March, 1859, Mahomet came again and said, “ Turkey
56
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. T, 1876.
is still alive. The day has not arrived for God to change her faith.
The great revolution must work itself out in Europe, and the new law
manifest itself and be implanted before Mohammedanism ceases to exist;
besides it is not with Turkey that the regeneration and conversion will
commence, for Africa, Algeria, Morocco, Tunis, Tripoli, and Egypt will
precede Turkey, which latter will not take a direct part in the great war
which is preparing, and which is about to change the face of Europe ;
but she will be shaken and sorely injured by it, for the Christian popu¬
lations will arise and consume her by civil war to such an extent that
when peace is again established the edifice will crumble to pieces. The
Crescent will cease to appear upon her standards, and the mosques will
become churches, to be afterwards changed into temples of the new
faith. I perceive much bloodshed, for my descendants are brave, and
will not yield without resistance. The Cross will have the upper hand,
and in twenty years Constantinople, having first become Christian, will
embrace the definitive religion of humanity,”
It must be remembered this was dictated seventeen years ago, when
Italy was enslaved, and Austria sat enthroned over the Germanic con¬
federation. Papal Eome shone with a splendour uncontested, and there
was nothing then that could foreshadow the annihilation of Turkey and
{he approaching duel between England and Russia. Everything seems
to be about to happen according to the prediction, even as to the manner
of Turkey’s disintegration.
I cannot, however, too much insist upon the incapacity of the in¬
visibles to determine as to length of time. There may be a possible
correlation between the fall of the Ottoman empire and the conversion
of Mohammedans, but such is far from being a necessary consequence,
for the spirit may easily have mistaken distances, and have presented to
us, as realised in a single picture, that which will only be the slow and
patient work of time. - F. Clavaiboz.
Trieste, Austria.  
SPIRITUALISM PROM A THEOLOGICAL POINT OF VIEW.
Sir,—I must confess to a feeling of deep interest in the marvels
recorded in your paper, but it is the interest of one who has been
watching “ the signs of the times ” for years, and who finds his convic¬
tion that the end draws nigh deepened and strengthened by them—in
their association with other signs they seem pre cursive of the Second
Advent. I am chiefly led to write this, as the result, first, of the painful
sense of oppression that weighs one down when one sees, on the one
hand, the most dangerous, though senseless and absurd utterances on the
part of scientific men, and, on the other, equally dangerous and mani¬
festly false utterances by Spiritualists, with the view of exalting the
phenomena of which they are frequent witnesses, into the dignity of a
supplementary Gospel. You and I, Sir, both know that a great inspired
apostle once published these memorable words—“If I or an angel from
Heaven preach any other Gospel unto you than that which has been
preached unto you, let him be accursed.” I fully believe that the phe¬
nomena your paper treats of and records are real, and that they are the
work of invisible intelligences, though it cannot be denied that some
mediums of inferior honesty have allowed themselves to descend to mean
imposture and trickery in order to retain influence over those who visit
them. I regard the utterances of the Standard, on a recent occasion,
with reference to Spiritualism, as eminently stupid and absurd. I am
not sure that the charge of stupidity ought not to be laid at the door of
every scientific man who refuses to investigate Spiritualistic phenomena,
or who, having investigated them, goes away with the impression that,
after some utterly impossible fashion, the medium “did it all.’,
That Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke, or Dr. Lynn, will ever succeed
in “putting down’’ Spiritualism I do not believe, for, as finite men, they
cannot put down the “ strong delusion ” sent into our midst by the
infinite God. And now, sir, with your permission, I will quote in full
the passage in Holy Scripture in the body of which those two words are
to be found—“ Then shall that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall
consume with the spirit of His mouth, and shall destroy with the bright¬
ness of His coming; even him, whose coming is after the working of
Satan, with all power, and signs, and lying wonders, and with all de-
ceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish ; because they
received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved. And for this
cause God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a
lie; that they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had
pleasure in unrighteousness.” Is “ Spiritualism” this ‘ ‘ strong delusion ” ?
And is “ Spiritualism” destined to be the future religion of our Tyndalls
and our Huxleys, except they repent ? Is Spiritualism destined to call
from them that emotionalism for the presence of which within us they
account so poorly ? By-and-by they will believe in it; they will
witness its phenomena for themselves, and will cease to try to explain
away those phenomena according to notions of trickery and collusion in
the mediums, which do credit neither to heart nor understanding. If
the very best argument the Standard can adduce in condemnation of
Spiritualism is the illogical one that it is an imposture, because its
mediums are paid, and occasionally make large incomes in the exercise
of their powers, the sooner the luminary of that paper ceases to utter
such lucubrations, the sooner will he return to the realms of common
sense. Dr. Slade was medium the other day when things were done in
the full light of a summer’s afternoon, not by him, but by some invisible
intelligence or intelligences near, whose agency was palpable to all,
except to those blind and stupid votaries of science who, rather than
believe in the testimony of their own senses, condescend to give expla¬
nations of the matter, or to suggest questions on their materialistic side
worthy of being classed among the finest puerilities out. Such puerilities
will not long be borne with. Scientific men will be morally compelled
to own themselves far behind this age of progress—so far, at least, as
spiritual phenomena are concerned. And then will there arise the
danger of their becoming votaries of a faith they once sought to destroy
—a faith sent as a strong delusion to ensnare them because of their
attempt to shut God out of His own world, and in punishment of their
11 conspiracy against the retention by us, through lives of practical useful-
ness, of the lessons we learned at our mother’s knees about God and
i i His great works. Too many, in these days, look upon infidelity or
• j unbelief as a venial fault. Holy Scripture treats the matter differently,
11 and regards it in the light of a sin sufficient to close the door of heaven
»j upon those who persist in holding it. Men of science will one day find
'j themselves compelled to pay adoration to something beyond their ken.
[| May it not be to those who work out the marvels we read of at Spirit-
i| ualistic seances, but, in Christ, to that God who has “ brought life and
j immortality to light” by the Gospel, who “spoke in times past unto the
11 fathers by the prophets,” and “ hath in these last days spoken unto us
| by His Son”; and Who thus introduces to our notice, in His inspired
Word, phenomena much resembling those of modern Spiritualism, in
alarmingly close connection with the event for which all truly Christian
hearts are longing. “ They are the spirits of devils, working miracles,
which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to
| gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty. Behold
| I come as a thieff Another M»A. of Oxford.
THE EDUCATION OF CHILDREN.
| Sir,—And this is why and how I consider the children of the poor
and rich can and should be brought up together. . . . .1 train my
I children by music from the cradle. The consequence is that all my
children are what are called prodigies. “ How horrid they must be
then t ” will naturally be said. So they would be if they were single
productions; but as they are all equally accomplished, it is only outside
beholders who can be conscious of their superiority ; not they. They
will, some day, as they grow up and mix with the outer world, discover
they are different to the people they meet outside their own circle.
Instead of thinking themselves prodigies, they will perhaps wonder why
every one they meet cannot do what they do. “Because they had no
Grannie /” will be the usual answer to why this? or why that P and I
fancy this answer will serve for a great many years to explain away this
mystery. When they are grown up they will understand that they are
different to the rest of mankind “ because they had a Grannie.” They
will not be personally vain because there will be so many of them
equally clever, and they will not be jealous because they will thoroughly
understand and appreciate each other’s capabilities. I may have some
very bad natures to grapple with, but I believe these can be almost
crushed out during babyhood. I will here take the opportunity of mak¬
ing a digression, and telling an anecdote about the youngest baby I have
in the house ; he is eighteen months old, and a very backward baby in
every particular. He has only nine teeth; he cannot stand alone, and
he cannot talk at all. He, however, understands every word that is
said to him. He is a passionate, bad tempered, obstinate baby ; I have
had a very hard battle with him! Since two or three months we have
succeeded in taming him to a certain degree. He will leave off crying
the moment anyone says “ Grannie is coming! ” He never cries when
I am present; his nurse and I between us have cured him of touching
things. I was surprised the other day to find him sitting on a chair (not
his own baby chair) like a grown person, at his nurse’s tea table where
she had left him, and where he was left, at least for eight minutes, alone,
without grabbing at the tea cloth and pulling it off, without playing with
or throwing the tea-things down, or roaring, as I believe any other
baby in Christendom would have done, especially such a stout, jolly
obstinate little “ town bull ” of a baby as he is. When he is left alone
he never touches anything; if he is not alone he shows some inclination
to meddle, but always looks at me first to see if he may! People
want to know what I teach the children. I first teach them to stop
crying when I tell them to do so. I teach them not to touch everything
their little fingers can get at. I teach them to amuse themselves with
things which are good for their teeth, and which they may put in their
mouths, or with twisted paper, and I do not allow them to be nursed.
There is nothing in this world so tyrannical as a baby constantly nursed
and amused. It will scream and roar all day unless the person who
nurses and amuses it is close to it; it cannot go to sleep unless rocked
to sleep, and if before it fell into a sound sleep the rocking stopped for
one moment, woe betide all around; it will wake up again more awake
than ever, scream and roar till taken in his favourite’s arms again.
I have no doubt now that having mastered the Baby I shall have no
trouble with the child of two years old and upwards. He is very
obedient. He talks and sings very prettily to himself; he pronounces
his S’s, and imitates the nursery rhymes he is used to hear the elder
infants sing. I have heard him sing A octave in perfect tune (not when
told to do so, but by chance). My plan for training children—their
education in fact—begins from the cradle, and my firm conviction is that
the battle can be, and is, easily won, by a judicious mixture of severity
and tenderness, before a child can speak. My ideal of a child’s mind is
that he should be brought up unconscious of having ever had a slap, or
having ever heard a harsh word. Georgina Weldon.
Tavistock House, London.  
spiritualism and the press. *
To the Editor of “ The Standard.”
Sir,—You have published a letter from your correspondent at New
York on “ Spiritualism in America,” to which, having myself crossed,
the Atlantic with the express object of investigating this subject, I
should like to reply, but that you would not permit. I am, however,
about to make an experiment on your sense of justice. We “dupes”
—Spiritualists—occasionally throw out such feelers, as Noah sent out
doves, to ascertain the subsidence of the waters of prejudice, and to
seek a footing for our facts on the dry ground of public candour. At
present we are forced to be dove-like in our communications. By-and-
*The above is a copy of a letter addressed to the Editor of The Standard, in consequence
of the publication of a letter from the New York correspondent of that paper, including Dr.
Slade in a list of “impostors.” The Standard has taken no notice of the communication.
Sept. 1, 1876.
THE STIEITUALIST.
57
by, perhaps, when we have more money behind us, we shall essay an j;
action for libel for some such statement as that put out by your corre- jj j
spondent—imputing fraud to one of our “mediums” whose good faith [fl
has been tested, and would probably be avouched in the witness box, not j|,j
only by ourselves, but by persons well known to the public, and who are l^i
unconnected with our despised sect. Among a list of persons designated
“impostors’’ by your correspondent appears the name of Slade. It is jf
on behalf of this man, now in London, a stranger on our shores—on ||
his behalf, but without communication with him—that I wish to remon- ij
strate. Upon Mr. Slade’s ability to obtain objective phenomena of the i[
most unequivocal kind, evincing a force unknown to science, in broad If
light, and under conditions absolutely free from suspicion, Spiritualists jj
are willing to rest their case before the public. You have, Sir, some- jj
where in your office—probably in your waste paper basket,—an invita- j
tion addressed to you, in common with all other editors of the metropo- jj
litan press, to witness for yourself, or to send any representative on jj
whose sagacity you can rely to witness these phenomena, without charge, jj
Such testimony as we are at present permitted to publish, weighty as jj
much of it is, you would put aside, and therefore I do not trouble you jj
with it. I must content myself with saying emphatically that the state- j j
ment that Slade is an impostor is absolutely untrue—only excusable, if jj
at all, on the popular presumption that any man who claims these jj
abnormal powers must be an impostor. On this, as on every other j
subject, knowledge and experience are helpless before ignorance and jj
prejudice. And of all truths, this of Spiritualism, besides resting on j
occult principles which it would require the deepest scientific insight to j j
penetrate, and being involved in real and grave difficulties, is the most jj
beset with ignorant and superficial objections. Answering these ad jj
nauseam is the daily vexation of Spiritualists. We admit that no sub- jj
ject lends itself more easily to imposition, and we are weary of pointing j j
out that any number of detected counterfeits raise no rational presump- jj
tion against the existence of genuine coin. Almost every fraudulent jj
medium has been exposed, not by outsiders, but by Spiritualists, yet jj
every such exposure is trumpeted as a proof of our credulity. We jj
admit that many of the communications purporting to come from de- jj
ceased persons are not authentic. What of that? When the agency of jj
the medium, as in the case of Slade, is physically impossible, you have jj
an interesting subject for investigation in the nature of the intelligence jj
from which these communications proceed. This question of the intel- jj
ligence is raised too early. It is one for advanced students of the j
phenomena. We assert two propositions—the existence of a force un- j
known to science, and the existence of an intelligence outside the j
medium. Let science, let the public, deal with the first before meddling j
with the second. When the force has been verified, then the profoundly j j
interesting question of the intelligence will come up. In the meantime,
Sir, let me respectfully urge you to avail yourself of the aforesaid invi- j j
tation, to see for yourself, and to remember the words of the wisest of j
modern men—“ We have set it down as a law to ourselves to examine i
things to the bottom, and not to receive upon credit or to reject upon j
improbabilities till there hath passed a due examination.”—Lord Bacon, j
Nat. Hist. Cent. 10.—Your obedient servant, A Barrister.
Temple, Aug. 18th,   
DR. carpenter’s unconscious cerebration.
Sir,—Dr. Carpenter claims the discovery of unconscious cerebration, j'
and likens the discovery to his deep-sea dredging, as a kind of deep- Ij
sea dredging into the human constitution; but this must be a bit of
unconscious cerebration on his part, seeing that it is referred to many
times in my Letters to Miss Martineau, published in 1851, years before
either he or Sir William Hamilton alluded to the fact. On page 82 I
say :—“ Consciousness being discovered to be a separate power (as the
eye of the mind), we can more easily understand how so much is often
worked out by the brain without consciousness or conscious will.” P.
105.—“ It is important to note that impressions are made through the
senses, which do not at the time influence, but which remain silent,
and afterwards become conscious perception.” P. 109.—“ Phrenologists
consider consciousness to be evolved in the action of every organ, and
to'be a necessary condition of such action. But this is a mistake, not
only as regards actions in the body but as regards the brain and mind.
The calculating boy Bidder was wholly unconscious of the process or
steps by which he arrived at his results ; nor as yet have we had a som-
nambule who can tell how he foresees events. All that such seers can
say is that it is so, or that they are told so, or ‘ it ’ tells them so, or the
* voice ’ tells them so. And this opens a very important question in
regard to this apparent second self, embodying the intuitive and uncon¬
scious higher condition.’’
The matter is referred to in many other places, and in respect to
attention and memory; but enough has been said to show that Dr. Car¬
penter can have no right claim to the discovery, since he read and
criticised the letters when published, and has often referred to them.
Very lately, in his Mental Physiology, he strung a dozen paragraphs
together from those letters. So that he cannot plead ignorance unless
he falls back on unconscious cerebration. The fact is the conscious states
are the perceptions of the percipient, or the sense of the cerebral or
spiritual facts and powers they mentally represent, and for aught we
know the whole life might be carried out automatically. This Descartes
supposed to be the case with the lower animals, and we, for instance, have
no difficulty in supposing it of a spider in forming its marvellous web so
artfully for a particular purpose, and which no mechanical notion about
inherited experience can, I think, possibly account for. It is curious that
those letters should have made so strong an impression on Dr. Car¬
penter, for he afterwards explained that it was to my statements on
“law ” in those letters that he chiefly referred to in his words on the
nature of a law in his address at Brighton as President of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science. All I have now to say to
Dr. Carpenter is “ Send back unto Csesar that which is Caesar’s.”
Here we are brought up to the question of the Ego—to “ What am I ? ”
to which Mr. Serjeant Cox has no satisfactory reply; and whether the
percipient be a physical body or a spiritual body makes no difference.
The question is not so much as to the nature of consciousness, but of
the mind, and as to whether both the conscious and the unconscious
element and source are to be included as mind. It is a very nice
question, and it was referred to by Mr. Mill in his reply to Sir William
Hamilton, saying that he could not admit of unconscious mind—that
mind means our mental states only. Dr. Maudsley goes into the
question in his opening chapter on “ Method; ” and Professors Clifford
and Huxley both now agree with me, that mind is mere perception, and
whether it be in reference to the sense we have of a will or effort makes
no difference, so that all the talk about a free-will power as the universal
and fundamental moving power in nature is all nonsense. When Dr.
Carpenter is asked how the idea is consistent with the belief in the
uniformity and universality of law, he replies that God acts in a uniform
way, as every sensible person does. This deep-sea dredging does
certainly bring up very curious things; hut I am afraid the doctor has
got a little out of his depth this time, or, rather, is mistaking the
shallows for deep sea in contemplating his own image in the water, just
as he seems unable to get beyond his own fancies in dealing with the
all-important facts of Spiritualism, and unphilosophically takes con-
ceivability to* be the criterion of truth, in the desire to make the most
of a discovery which is not his own. Not that I make any boast
of a discovery in setting forth a few facts in relation to the human
mind. I never cared whether they were novelties or not, and therefore
have never troubled myself to set Dr. Carpenter right.
Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.  
. A LETTER FROM DR. SLADE.
Sir,—I hope that while our opponents call forth our charitable
patience, they at the same time will stimulate our energies to spread
the beautiful gospel of truth, and to display the beacon light of im¬
mortality to aid the tempest-tossed mariner who now is driven to and
fro by diverse winds of doctrine into the unknown sea of scepticism.
That light will also help the weary pilgrim whose path is obstructed
by the tangled bushes of mysticism and the dense fog of sectarian strife,
to chase away the midnight gloom which has so long shrouded in
mystery the mental and spiritual horizon of humanity’s future. The
evidence of immortality will penetrate the hearts of struggling men, and
emancipate them from the bondage of error, which the false system of a
theological education has so strongly impressed upon them ; in short, it
will set the captive spirit free, and bid the saddened hearts rejoice,
because of man’s immortality triumphant, heralded by angel ministry.
Spiritualism, with the tide of supporting evidence flowing in upon all
sides, is truly progressing ,* and each day it finds a welcome response in
the hearts of the liberal and investigating classes of society. Many
portions of Europe have been awakened to its truth—a truth which is
destined to exert an influence upon men, deep, widespread, and
irresistible, because of its broad basis, noble mission, and glorious
destiny.
Much of this is due to the well-known friend and pioneer, D. D.
Home. He was the first who had the manly courage to go forth and
give to the world that which he believed to be right, good, and true;
and for many years he stood alone, like a firm rock, unshaken by the
storms of persecution, with his head above the dark waters of scorn and
bigotry, whose waves of educated prejudice and cunning ignorance have
lashed with fury, but in vain. The germs of truth which he scattered
here and there, aided by his medial powers, still live in the hearts of all
who had the good fortune to see him, and will be cherished in memory,
and never will be forgotten.
More good mediums would be developed if those who profess to be
believers would stand by them; for mediums, knowing, as they do, that
they are likewise subject to unmerited abuse from the sectarian powers
and press, will be prevented from coming before the public.
For one, I think it is time we stand by that which we believe to
be true, and that we should do all in our power to protect the
faithful workers who are and have been promulgating the truth of
Spiritualism.
I see that the members of the press (or at least some of them) have
lost their equilibrium, having been disturbed by the so-called Bravo
message.
Now, if they could subside into a state of cool demeanour, and in¬
vestigate the subject about which they claim to know so much, yet
know so little, it might improve their columns and enlighten their
readers.
I will, at any time, give them an opportunity to investigate, and it
shall be free of charge, providing that they will have the honesty to
publish the facts which may take place in my presence.
It would show better taste on their part to know what they are
talking about, than to pretend to know so much and know so little; it
would look far better than to send forth the heated lava of abuse,
prejudice, and cunning sarcasm, displaying at once a contracted origin
and a despotic bearing towards all who differ with them in opinion.
Opinions cannot change a fact, but a fact will change an opinion.
To condemn that which we do not understand is as unphilosophical
as it is unjust, but such is often the peculiar province of those who,
clothed with authority, arrogate unto themselves the all of truth, and
scruple not to slander those who may differ with them in opinion. It
cannot be successfully denied that the position thus assumed by various
theologians (for whom we make all due allowance) is the result of the
contracted views and defective conclusions of bigotry, for bigoted people
have ever been the first to battle against any truth, either in science or
religion. They employ themselves in “ checking the mighty march of
mind’’ by exerting their influence in favour of old opinions, however
absurd, and against any innovations, however true.
If the Bible is true Spiritualism is true. The truth of the Bible is
58
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 1,1876.
not questioned by any sane man who has studied it. We claim that
inspiration has been the gift of all ages, races, and countries. Manifes¬
tations were of no uncommon occurrence, and are the same now as in
olden times. The Bible, as a history of the past, no doubt furnishes
the best reflex of remarkable manifestations, differing from those of to- !
day only as modified by individuality and surroundings. Hence it is no r
part of Spiritualism to ignore the teachings of the past, nor to deem ],
them superior to the present. i i
To each opponent, in conclusion, I would kindly add : When thy ]]
latent perceptions are awakened to demand its truth, and antagonism j |
ceases to agitate the inner life, when charity blends more softly with thy I
nature, the key of investigation will unlock the rich resources of the ij
angel ministry, who will bring thee the inspiration of a higher life, and ] |
prove cultivators to assist thee to discipline and harmonise in this the ! (
primary state of existence, and thus to fulfil thy office in the world’s j (
development. j}
As travellers to a future home of realities, let us aim to carry with us !(
recollections of earth life, relating to noble thoughts and acts. Then j|
all will be well, and we may agree to disagree. Henry Slade. j j
8, Upper Bedford Place.   j j
SPIRIT MESSAGES IN LANGUAGES UNKNOWN TO THE MEDIUM. j|
Sir,—My last letter to you, on “Publius Syrus” (June 16th\ re- j
capitulated the seven messages in Latin which I had received, through j
Madame R , from this ancient Roman author, of the times of Julius !'
Caesar; in Latin perfectly pure and classic, and perfectly in the peculiar j
style of Publius Syrus. I told you also that I had been to that lady j
and her husband to request from them some means of disproving the jj
only possible cavilling supposition which outside incredulity could now j
pretend to adduce against the real and demonstrated authenticity of these j >
wonderful communications (I appeal to all scholars who have followed j
the series of these Publius Syrus letters in your columns), namely, that |
it was supposable (ridiculously indeed, but still supposable to the I
enemy), that she, Madame R , was a consummate Latinist, familiar (!
with both the language and the peculiar style of Publius Syrus, and | j
that she was the charlatan author of these seven communications, and I j {
her dupe. They told me that communications had passed through her j! j
in nearly all the European languages, and some oriental ones, including
Hebrew and one of Aramean-Syriac. They suggested that if I knew j
any other modem languages, besides English and French, I might come
and try for myself whether I could get communications in them also. J
Accordingly I went for that purpose, and (as I related to you in my
letter of June 16th), I was successful in obtaining communications both ]
in Spanish and in Portuguese—the latter at least being a language
which it was absurd to imagine that this good and amiable French lady j
could know. Moreover, she could not know who were the spirits I de- I
sired to converse with, nor what their languages. And yet I had com- ,
munications, perfect in language, in Portuguese, from the late King of
Portugal, Pedro V., and in Spanish, from the famous Cuban revolu- '
tionary General, Narciso Lopez, both dear friends, and both communi- (
eating in characteristic manner. All this was stated in my letter to you ■
above referred to; I only recapitulate it (hoping that some of your j
readers may refer back to that letter, for I take it for granted that all j
who take in The Spiritualist file and preserve it), in order to connect it j
with what I have now further to say on this point of test proof of lan- j
guage. Grant that Mme. R- might know Latin, and with the most {
consummate classicality. Grant that she might know Spanish. Grant
even that she might know Portuguese, a language which no one out of Por- j
tugal and Brazil has any inducement to learn. Grant that she might read | j
in my thoughts the two friends referred to, Don Pedro V. and General i
Lopez. Yet could any one suppose that besides these four modern ij
languages known to me she could also know Hebrew, of which I know j j
nothing except that it is written backwards ? j j
Now, in foreign languages (she herself knowing only her own m
French), the communications through this remarkable medium, Mme. j j
R , can only come alphabetically; the table tilting to the letters of j |
the alphabet (by the action of the spirit), and stopping at the proper jj;
one, and then generally with an emphatic stop. I fancied that if I jji
could get a Hebrew alphabet, with the names of the letters, as pro- ji j
nounced, in French characters, I might call it over, on the chance that 111
some Hebrew spirit might come and respond to my desire; and that j
afterwards I might submit to some Hebraist what I might have thus j J
received. A little at a loss how to get it, and happening to pass a j j j
Jewish synagogue, I went in to get a reference to some Hebrew book- j[j
seller. The result was that I got into communication with a professor of j j
Hebrew, himself an officiating ministrant in one of the synagogues of j (j
Paris; an intelligent man, and evidently devout in his historic and jjl
time-honoured creed. I stated what I wanted, and my object in want- j|j
ing it. I gave him some idea of the proofs I had had of real communica- j j i
tion with the spirits of departed beloved ones, especially of my own jlj
mother. He had seen the last of his mother about six months before; j | j
and it would be an ineffable comfort to him if he could have any similar j (j
evidence. The upshot of it was that I took him to Mme. R , to j |
whom I gave no notice of our visit. The result was successful, to his j \ \
equal astonishment and delight. His mother came into communication jji
with him, in Hebrew, spelt out alphabetically, he calling the letters, j |
and the table tilting and stopping in response. Remember that the wj
pronounced names of the Hebrew letters are for the most part entirely ||j
different from ours. There was first given, correctly, his surname, jji
Then his baptismal name (l>Sishint,>). Then her name, “Rachel” (the j jj
ch being pronounced like the guttural letter corresponding in Greek). j j j
Then, in response to his inquiry, the name “ Fontainebleau,” spelled out ! j I
by the Hebrew alphabet, as being the place where she had been in- j
terred. Afterwards came the name of his son (which I forget). Then j1 j
that of his daughter, which was “Rebecca,” though pronounced not ij j
exactly as we do. He then asked if she was in relation and communi- i j
cation with his son (her grandson, of course) ? “ Yes.” “ Can you tell j j
me where he is at this moment—in what country ? ” “ France.” “ In
what town ? ” “ LuchonP All which was correct, these names having
been spelled out according to the Hebrew alphabet, as called out by
him. Of course I had no knowledge of these matters, nor of the
Hebrew alphabet. Still less Mme. R. In the course of this, the alpha¬
betical communication being necessarily slow, he asked his mother (on
my prompting) whether she could not communicate to him in French
what she might wish to say, inasmuch as that was a much more easy
and rapid process through Mme. R., who knows no other language than
French. He thus received a very affectionate maternal message, in
which she thanked her sons (not him, but “ (‘mes Jils ”) for having
interred her according to what they had known to be her wish. He
explained to me that her husband had been buried ten years ago at
Fontainebleau, and that they, knowing her feeling and wish, though it
had not been expressed, had interred her by his side; not without an
expense which had not been inconsiderable to them. She told him that
“ she blessed them for it,” and for all their conduct as “ dutiful and
obedient sons.” My Hebrew friend was made very happy by all this,
and very grateful to me who had procured it for him.
This, of course, gave me satisfaction; but my special object had been
to obtain the Hebrew test of language, in support of the genuineness of
my seven Latin communications from Publius Syrus, superadded to
those in Portuguese and Spanish already obtained by myself.
And I insist that the case of demonstration is complete, and I defy
the most hostile incredulity to raise now a tolerable pretext of a logical
or reasonable cavil against it.
Being about to leave Paris and Europe, I have once since communi¬
cated with Publius Syrus, simply to tell him that I was about to go to
America, and even to California, and to ask him whether he would, and
could, through the mediums I should find there, give me further com¬
munications in Latin. “Yes,” was his answer. We shall see, and
your readers shall know what further may come of it.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, August 20th.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—With reference to your article on this subject in last week’s
number, I am sorry to find that I was too late to prevent the publication
of one of two nearly identical letters, as my only reason for writing was
that it seemed to me that what was worth publishing at all, was worth
publishing with a moderate amount of correctness, and so that the
public should not be entirely misled on points of considerable importance
to some people.
I am, however, noways ashamed of the fact that, before writing to-
you, I had suggested to our temporary secretary that a formal correction
from her would, in my private estimation, be a proper and desirable
proceeding. As she seemed at first to think otherwise, I wrote to you
myself. A. Joy.
Kingston-on-Thames. — - ... ■
Sir,—In the current number of The Spiritualist, pp. 40 and 41, it is
stated that Mr. Dawson Rogers proposed the resolution to abrogate
Rule 27. As you consider the passing of the resolution a false step, I
desire to say that the motion was proposed by me, and I am prepared
to bear all the blame for moving it, which you wrongly lay on Mr.
Rogers. He not only voted against the resolution, but seconded Mr.
Joy’s amendment, the object of which was to make the clause more
stringent than before.
I still approve of the action of the Council, but consider you deserve
credit for the motives which have led you to criticise that action so
severely. Let us be satisfied with your conclusion, that probably no
practical evil will result at present, and if in future years corruption
seems likely to creep in, it will be an easy matter to close the door
against it by re-enacting the Rule. A, Glendinning.
4, Castledine-road, Anerley, S.E., 28th August.
[In the agenda, Mr. Rogers gave notice that he would move the abrogation
of the rule; but ho informs us that he only did so to raise the question for
discussion, and later on he seconded Mr. Joy’s amendment, which tended to
strengthen rather than to abolish the rule which prohibited persons paid by
the Association from sitting or voting at the Council.—Ed.]
FOWERFUL SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN BIRMINGHAM.
Sir,-—I must confess I envy my excellent friend, Mr. George H*
Adshead, of Derby, whose letter appeared in your last issue, his mar¬
vellous experience with Dr. Monck, all the more because I have had
the pleasure of one siance with him recently, and because so far as the
phenomena went at that siance, they fully bore out Mr. Adshead’s state¬
ments. I say so far as it went, for it is obvious that a repetition of the
varied phenomena of upwards of forty seances which Mr. Adshead
attended, could not be crowded into one evening. The seance in ques¬
tion was held at the house of my old and faithful friend, Mr. Hill, of
Bristol-street, on the evening of August 10th. It was arranged at a few
hours’ notice, and a promiscuous company of fourteen, including the
medium, assembled at 8 p.m. As Mr. Hill’s table was not suited to
Dr. Monck’s requirements, an ordinary deal-topped Pembroke table was
hired from a cabinet maker near, and a green baize cloth was thrown
over it. The two ends of the table occupied a position pretty nearly
east and west, and of course the sides were almost north and south.
Dr. Monck occupied alone the southern side; the sitters were arranged
in a double row along the eastern end and northern side, while at the wes¬
tern end stood an empty chair in solitary glory, about three feet removed
from the table. With the exception of placing us at the table, which he
allowed me to do partly, Dr. Monck placed no restrictions upon our
liberties of observation and investigation; no conditions were read;
indeed, we did pretty much as we pleased. The seance was conducted
in every particular the same as described by Mr. Adshead in his letter
to you last week; excepting the spirit lights, the whole of the phe-
Sept. 1, 1876.
59
THE SPIRITUALIST.
nomena occurred in a good light. Most of the time Dr. Monck sat
alongside the table with his legs and feet clearly in view, instead of
underneath the table in the usual way. The phenomena soon com¬
menced, and the table rose clearly off the floor and floated with a gentle¬
man seated upon it in a chair; again it repeated the same motions with
two ladies upon it, and finally it groaned beneath the weight of three
ladies and a chair, and all went up together in a moderate light, while
the table groaned, the chair creaked, and the ladies trembled with fear.
During this manifestation Dr. Monck sat close up to the table with his
legs underneath it, but his hands grasped those of the lady in the chair.
The musical album then began to play in a jerky and uncertain way, as
though in many places the barrel had become toothless, but it gradually
improved, and soon struck up a familiar air, and played it through in
good style. A lady present, wishing to remember the name of the air,
which seemed so familiar to us all, began to tune it to herself quickly;
by the time she had got half through the tune she remembered the
name, and stated it aloud, not noticing that the album took up the tune
where she left off, and finished it in the same quick time. When the
writer called her attention to this fact, she again hummed a few bars of
the tune, and again it struck up where she left off, and finished the air
in a lively manner. This is a nut for those wiseacres to crack who con¬
tend that the playing of musical boxes and albums at these seances is
entirely a matter of mechanism. If such were the case then the discus¬
sion as to where instinct ends and reason begins, might receive new
impetus from the vagaries of a marvellous mechanical and musical
album. The “ fairy bells ” frequently played without any visible
operator. This instrument is an oblong box, open on one side, and
containing strings stretched over a bridge; the open side was turned
towards the table, so that the strings were completely screened from
human sight and touch. In this position, at some distance from the
medium, it called for the alphabet by thrums on the strings; various
communications were given in this way. A little boy, the deceased
son of Mr. Hill, spelt out his name “ Benny ” in this way, and clearly
proved his identity to his father. We were next entertained by distinct
signs of animation in the lonely chair at the western end of the table ;
while we were intently watching it it assumed powers of locomotion,
and steadily walked up to the table, lifting its seat in contact with the
top of the table; after tapping it three times on the under side it rose
bodily on the table. It was again replaced in its original position by
Dr. Monck, and again, without mortal hand or foot in contact with it, as
the writer and others present can testify, for the medium’s legs and feet
were visible all the time to those who looked for them. It again went
through the same exercise, and again leaped upon the table in a good
light.
I wish tc call particular attention to this next manifestation, because
after about a dozen years investigation of spiritual manifestations,
during which time I have observed almost all the varieties of spiritual
manifestation, I confess that the phenomenon I am about to describe is
the most complete and satisfactory I have seen, or heard, or read of. Dr.
Monck asked for paper and pencil; half a sheet of ordinary note paper
was produced from a sheet which Mr. Hill had provided, and Mr. Gr.
H. Adshead threw his pencil (a gold one) upon the table. The paper
was examined by all present, and found to be quite blank on both sides ;
the doctor folded it four times, and threw it upon the table by the side
of the pencil. He then asked for two or three pocket-handkerchiefs,
which he pitched carelessly over the pencil and paper. He then placed
both his hands flat upon the whole, palms downwards, while we sang
three verses of Longfellow’s “ Psalm of Life.” We then saw something
moving underneath the handkerchiefs between Dr, Monck’s hands. He
then slowly rolled up the handkerchiefs, until the pencil was seen to
emerge from beneath them in an oblique position, and raised at the
proper angle for writing. Dr. Monck then withdrew his hands entirely
from the table, placing them over his head in view of all the company;
still the pencil continued to emerge, until all of it was exposed, except
the point, which rested on the paper underneath the handkerchiefs. In
this position it commenced to move towards the right hand as if forming
letters. When it had reached the end of the line it returned to the left,
and commenced to write again, and thus two-and-a-half lines were
written, rather slowly, while the polished pencil-case glistened in the
gas-light. While the writing was proceeding, I asked several of the
sitters the furthest removed from the table if they could distinctly see the
pencil poised and writing alone, and they each answered in the affirma¬
tive. On the conclusion of the writing the pencil fell down, and Dr.
Monck requested me to rise and lift the handkerchiefs and read the
writing. I did so, and found the following
We haunt your dreams,
If lives are dreams.—Samuel.
Of course it was remarked how apposite the writing was to the hymn
we had been singing, which commences thus:—
Tell me not in mournful numbers
Life is but an empty dream.
Other phenomena of a minor character occurred, but I will not tres¬
pass further upon your space, for this letter has already assumed greater
proportions than I anticipated. But I feel, sir, that in view of the
scepticism which prevails regarding these phenomena, such facts cannot
be too often repeated or too frequently reported. I have always looked
upon the slate manifestation as very satisfactory, but this is unques¬
tionably more convincing to the scientific mind; it i« nearly self-evident,
for “ seeing is believing.” After some little experience with scientific
observers, I am satisfied that they, as a class, trust their eyes more
than all their apparatus. Hence it occurs to me that Dr. Monck should
try to induce his controls to perfect themselves in this manifestation, so
that they could produce the writing anywhere and at any time, taking
care that the paper be marked for identification; also let the written
matter be dictated by one of the sceptics while the pencil is standing in
view. He would then be able to meet scientific men in the way sug¬
gested by that able writer, “ M.A.,” with every probability of success.
With this short but convincing programme, the question of force and
intelligence from some invisible source would be proved to their satis¬
faction, and thus tend to break down the wall of prejudice which stands
to-day between scientific men and the calm examination of these
phenomena. Aquila Baldwin.
Birmingham.
MANIFESTATIONS AT BRUSSELS THROUGH MR. WILLIAMS* MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—Making my usual annual visit to the Continent, and knowing
that Mr. C. E. Williams, our great medium, was staying in Holland, I
invited him to join me at the H6tel de Europe for a few days’ visit,
and a run through Belgium. He accepted my invitation, and came.
After a charming trip we returned to Antwerp to see its beauties, I
refraining from asking for a seance, knowing his object was to get rest
for his winter campaign. But on Monday evening, the 21st, after a
ride into the country, he said, while sitting in my room, that there was
great power present. I replied that if he could only procure some
manifestations in the light what good it would do to the cause ; so he
said, “ Shall we try 1 ”
It was evening ; our windows were wide open, with light enough to
see everything in the room and every move that each might make.
The Cathedral and other buildings stood out in bold relief from our
windows. We made no preparation, nor had we any musical box or
anything else especially for the use of the spirits. Raps immediately
came from every part of the room, and the table gave the message,
“ We are very glad to see you." Then the table-cover was very strongly
pulled, at which I desired they would not pull it off, as an inkstand
was standing on it; they immediately desisted, but a very heavy arm¬
chair came up from the side of the room, turned its back to the table,
then continued to roll and rock about as if keeping time to the chimes,
which were playing a tune. Next, two voices, those of John King and
Peter, began to talk at the same time : John King’s voice from the side
of the table close to my elbow, while Williams was loudly laughing.
John King said, “Am glad to see you, Ben, here in old Antwerp."
Peter was busy at the same time talking, but indistinctly. I asked
John to bring his lamp. He said “it was not wanted" but after a
short time he showed his bright blue spark just on the edge of the
table farthest possible from Williams. He promised soon to manifest
in full light for the medium. Then the antimacassar, with a towel
from the stand, flew across the room, passing both windows, in full
view, without touching as they passed. The table and chairs were all
in motion, more or less, during the whole time. John King then bade
us *, Good night" saying, u God he icith you," which I thought sin¬
gular.
Our room being furnished with two beds, we determined to occupy
them. While Peter was busy talking, we lighted a candle, and pre¬
pared to retire to rest; and, as soon as we had each got to our beds—
Peter talking, but indistinctly—the armchair began to travel about,
and a rubbing noise against the wire of the stove showed us that the
heavy hearthrug was moving, and rubbing against the guard; it laid
down again, but the wrong side upwards. Another chair came from the
farthest part of the room, throwing off a red cushion in its progress,
and rubbing with great force against the carved work of my bedstead,
it sprang up, and fell down to the floor in an inverted position. After
this we had quiet, and Peter left us.
Mr. Williams returned to the Hague last evening.
B. W. Ptcock.
H6tel de Flandres, Brussels, August 23rd, 1876.
THE HEALING POWER.
Sir,—In the interest of truth will you kindly grant me space to
correct a slight error which has crept into the report of the Newcastle
pic-nic, as published in your paper. I am there reported to have said
that after the medical gentlemen pronounced my case a hopeless one,
that my sister, who is a medium, took the case in hand, &c.; whereas
it should be, that the “ spirits ” took the case in hand, commenced work
first, and then announced that they would carry it through, in spite of
all opposition. My sister was a passive agent in their hands; she
followed out strictly the directions given by the invisibles. It is need¬
less to say that she knew but little of medical treatment, and that it
was a very great strain upon her, mentally as well as physically. She
felt a great responsibility,especially when the orders were in opposition
to those of the medical men, and the treatment at times apparently
outlandish. I must not further occupy your valuable space, except to
say that what was done for me on that occasion touched a chord deep
down in my heart, of whose existence I was previously unaware.
H. A. Kersey.
Newcastle-on-Tyne.  
SPECULATIONS BY A CLAIRVOYANT.
Sir,—The following deductions, which are chiefly drawn from my
own personal experience as a clairvoyant, may be interesting to your
readers as aids to the solution of some of those knotty problems by
which the great mass of Spiritualistic investigators are at the present
more or less perplexed.
1st. As the soul or mind, in the flesh, can only manifest itself
through the flesh, or through works in the accomplishment of which
the body is the instrument, so the soul or mind, out of the flesh, can
only (even to the ken of the clairvoyant) manifest itself through a
certain ethereal garment—a certain u something ” which constitutes at
once the soul’s body, clothing and atmosphere.
2nd. This atmosphere, or aura, envelopes the soul, whether in the
flesh or out of it, though while in the flesh it is not so palpable to the
seer’s ken, on account of its being mixed up and amalgamated with
the grosser elements of which the body is composed.
60
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 1, 1876.
3rd. That, while, in a general way, the aura fits the soul as the I
cuticle fits the body, unlike the cuticle, it can be made to expand or to j
contract, so as to represent any image by which the soul is possessed. !
4th. That, over and above this capability, it has the properties of |
what, for the want of a better term, I shall call a magic mirror, j;
wherein every concrete idea by which the soul is dominated is arrested, I
transfixed and reflected ; and that, moreover, every image thus caught j J
is eternal, and can never be effaced. j)
6th. That the “aura ” is generated with its wearer’s self—that body j(
and soul are generated at the same moment; and that, as I have |
already intimated, it continues to exist with the soul after the body has )
dissolved and perished. j
6tb. That, by a study of the images reflected in the soul’s aura, the j
seer is often enabled to trace a person or a spirit’s life ; while, by a j |
study of the various forms which the garment itself is made to assume, ! j
he may be able to learn the thoughts and passions by which that per- !)
son or spirit, for the time being, is dominated. 11
7th. That, as this aura is generated with the child, and as the off- j (
spring is the inheritor of the physical and mental qualities of its ij
parents, so in this aura is presented the history of its parents, and of j /
its parents’ parents. By a study of these the seer may be able to go j j
into a family’s antecedents for many generations back. I j
8th. That, as its garment is generated, so as I have said, is it highly j |
probable that the soul itself is generated from the parents, and under j (
any circumstances we may infer that if the soul had existed prior to the | j
conception of the body, it must have been enveloped in such a garment i (
as the aforesaid aura, and that, such being the case, the seer would i j
sometimes be in a position to say what its history was before its last j (
incarnation. Furthermore, as no seer has as yet been in such a posi- j (
tion, we may conclude that there was no such history to decipher. I | j
would here observe that the special phenomenon so often cited by the | (
Beinrarnationists in support of their theory—viz., that the spirit of |j
one Thos. Ronalds, a well-known gentleman of London, appeared as a j:|
Prussian prince to a great clairvoyant, may be accounted for on the j \
supposition that what was thus seen was only the image of the |\
dominant idea then in the spirit’s mind. That the spirit, Ronalds, j >
may have believed himself to have been what he says he was, I readily if
conceive, but we are not bound to accept his assertion for all that, j)
Thousands of spirits, while in the flesh, are the victims of hallucina- 1)
tion, and if so why may we not conceive it possible that some spirits, |(
when out of the flesh, are in a similar condition ? We are still in- !)
fected by the old orthodox leaven, and somehow or other cannot help ij
investing the “ unhouseled” spirit with the fictitious capacity and attri- \l
butes of the angel or the demon. But this only means that as yet we j)
are the merest tyros in our knowledge of man’s spiritual nature. The ij
duplication of the manifestation in which Ronalds was thus represented, j\
I would add, is quite in harmony with my own experience in such if
matters, and strengthens my conviction that the one, if not both, of ij
the apparitions beheld by Mrs. Burns was merely the reflex of what j(
was uppermost in the spirit’s mind, and that the spirit itself at the jj|
time was not seen. [jj
9th. I have >aid that the aura is a mirror wherein all objects that ij
its wearer comes in contact with are reflected; and I will now state jjj
that, such being so, in this we have a key to the mystery of what are |(
termed “doubles,” since, wherever it moves, the spirit carries away |j
impressions of the objects it meets with, and having met with “A,” we ij]
will say at Manchester, it will carry his image to “B” at Newcastle,” jfj
and should “B” happen to be clairvoyant, and to be acquainted with j(]
“A,” he may see that image, and so conclude that he has seen the jj
former’s double. Furthermore, since this mirror is possessed and worn m
by the soul while it is in the flesh as well as when it is out of it, we iji
may infer that a similar result may be obtained by a third person, jj|
“C," in the flesh, performing the journey of the disembodied spirit, jjj
That is, “C” might carry the image of “A” to “B,” and leave the jjj
latter under the impression that he has seen the former’s double. To jjj
this deduction I would tack the remark that I do not doubt but that \l\
the spirit may sometimes leave and again go back to its body, but I jj;
hold that the conditions requisite for this are of too rare an occurrence jjj
to account for all the doubles which are presented to the seer’s ken, jjj
and much more powerless is this supposition to account for one being jjj
able to see one’s own double—a phenomenon very often witnessed by jjj
clairvoyants. jFor myself, I may add that I have not only seen the jj
duplicate of myself, but I have seen it in the company of the appari- jjj
tions of people who had departed this life before I was born. This jjj
can only be accounted for by the theory just laid down, unless we fall jjj
back upon that of the reincarnationists ; but then, in this special in- j|j
stance, there were elements which could not by any means be made to jj!
harmonise with the teachings of the Kardecian school. Take the fact, jjj
for instance, that I appeared to myself in a suit of clothes, not such as jjj
I tMn had on, but such as I had actually worn a very few days before, j j
10th. By consideration of the premises already laid down, we have, jjj
in response to the oft-mooted question, “Have the brutes souls, and j/j
are they immortal ? ” an answer in the negative, or at least we shall jij
feel ourselves obliged to say that, as yet, we have no just grounds for jjj
a verdict in the affirmative. True, some learned and wise people iji
believe the contrary, but if they have no other basis for their convic- jji
tion than that brutes appear to think, and that their forms are some- ijj
times seen in the spirit world, I very much suspect that their belief is jjj
reared on a sandy foundation. Setting aside the disputed point, jij
whether brutes think, in the sense of the term that man thinks, I main- jjj
tain that by whatever way they make their wants and desires known, jn
they either have no conceptive and no assimilative power of ideas—no jjj
ideas which assume a practical form—or they have not the aforesaid jjj
aura or “ magic mirror ” wherein such could be reflected, otherwise jjj
the clairvoyant would sometimes see them, and be able to say what jjj
they were. As for the brute forms which I myself have sometimes jjj
seen in my visions, I have always found, on a close inspection, that il'
they were mental pictures, and not what they at the first glance ap¬
peared. The same remark will extend to all the fruits, flowers, trees,
valleys, mountains, and rivers, which I have seen as constituting the
scenery of the spirit-world. In short, as the spirit-world is built up
of mental pictures, or of ideas that can be pictured to the eye—Mrs.
Tappan and all our great mediums, I understand, teach this doctrine—
and as every spirit’s home or sphere is built up of its own ideas, whilst
the brutes appear to be without the capacity for such ideas, we may
naturally conclude that for them there is no spirit home, and as a
matter of course no future life. The fact of the matter is, that of all
creatures in God’s Great Universe, man appears to be the only one
capable of retaining his individuality after the body’s dissolution, and
I have no doubt that is by the peculiar nature of his aura, or the
power which is given to him by which he can create such spiritual sur¬
roundings, that he is enabled to do this.
Such are a few of the conclusions I have arrived at in regard to some
of the most perplexing problems of the time ; and in conclusion, sir,
let me say that they are not offered in a spirit of hostility to those who
have already propagated or upheld views of an opposite character, but
with a desire to get at the truth on the points in question. Like all
theorists, I suppose I may expect opposition, but so long as my argu¬
ments are met in a manly and courteous way, I can put up with that.
Joseph Skipsby.
Ashington Colliery, near Morpeth, Northumberland.
[We do not understand the idea our correspondent intends to convey by the
statement about forms being possibly reflected by an aura.—Ed.]
Last Sunday night Mrs. Burke delivered an interesting address at
Doughty Hall, London, on “ Elizabeth Fry.”
On Sunday next, Mr. Holt will, occupy the platform in the after¬
noon, and Mr. Bancroft, trance medium, in the evening, at the services
of the Oldham Spiritualist Institution, Waterloo-street, Oldham.
Mr. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly American Minister at the Court of
Portugal, whose letters in this journal on the persecution of Spirit¬
ualists in Paris excited such widespread interest, is now in London,
and will leave in a day or two for California.
Mr. Charles E. Williams, medium, writes that he will return
towards the end of this week to London from the Continent, and will
resume his seances, at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, next Thursday, Sep¬
tember 7th.
Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces.—On Sunday last Mr. Morse gave
two trance addresses in the County Court Rooms, Halifax. The even¬
ing address was delivered to a large congregation, and interested the
listeners. On Sunday next, September 3rd, Mr. Morse will deliver
trance addresses in the Freemasons’ Hall, Weir’s-court, Newcastle-on-
Tyne; in the afternoon at three o’clock, subject—“ Spiritualism as a
Religious Reform; ” in the evening at seven o’clock, subject—“ Resur¬
rection.” On Monday evening, September 4th, at the same place, at
7.30 p.m., the entire evening will be devoted to answering questions put
by the audience. Mr. Morse’s other engagements are:—Liverpool,
Sunday, September 10th, Meyerbeer Hall, at 3 and 7 p.m.; Wigan,
Sunday, September 17th; London, Sunday, October 8th, Doughty
Hall, Bedford-row, W.C., 7 p.m.; Batley Carr, Saturday and Sunday,
October 14th and 15th. Societies desiring Mr. Morse’s services for the
autumn and winter season, are requested to write to him at Warwick
Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Activity oe the Spirits of Lawyers.—The Albany Law Journal,
in the course of a short sub-leader on the New York “ Taylor Will
Case,” says: “ The motion was in behalf of Mrs. Taylor, executrix,
asking that Wingate and Cullen be substituted as attorneys, in place of
Rufus F. Andrews. In opposition to the motion, Mr. Andrews pre¬
sented his affidavit, containing, among others, the following curious
statement:—‘ I have been sent for to go to her house, and consult the
spirits as to the proper management of her estate and the counsel to be
employed with me ; and I have received alleged communications from
the late Judge Edmonds, James T. Brady, Mr. Van Buren, and other
distinguished lawyers; and these were given me by the medium in
what purported to be the handwriting of the spirits. In all these com¬
munications the dead lawyers approved of all that I had done. On all
these occasions one communication purported to emanate from the spirit
of the late James B. Taylor, and he also has signified his approval of
my course.’ ”
The Psychological Basis of the Eye.—Edward Paxton Hood
says:—“ May we not say that the eye is framed as much to conceal
objects as to reveal them ? Is it not most obvious how easily it might
have been constructed so as to reveal more to us than it does ? It
might have been more telescopic—it might have been more microscopic
—in either instance, the source of how much happiness to us 1 Can
we not conceive how it might have been framed so as to discover, not
the essence of things, but the more hidden and subtle vestures in
which essences hide themselves ? Instead of being an unending means
of delight and amusement to us, might it not, by being fitted to see the
hidden movements of life, have been a source of never-ending pain and
annoyance 1 Dr. Haddock remarks: ‘ The moment we attempt to pass
beyond the retina, science is at fault; no natural philosopher has been
able to explain how the optic nerve conveys the image to the brain; we
know i hat the mind is conscious of the images formed on the retina, or,
in more familiar language, of the things seen by the eyes; but in what
manner an opaque nervous cord, differing in no essential particulars
from other nervous cords, conveys that impression to the mind, we
are entirely ignorant. Ordinary sight has, therefore, a psychological
basis ; and this is admitted by the best physiologists.’ ”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
B. P. J.—A letter waits at our office for you.
Sept. 1, 1876,
THE SPIBITUALIST.
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Hussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not In any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORM), by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEAROHESINTHEPHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, E.R.S. The best work ever
published, to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
i for inquirers, giving general Information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, hut
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly ^published book contains Faets
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft- The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vole., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man In the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned abihty. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them: they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be estabiished, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of atrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
Utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth, Beet edition, gilt, 10s, fid.; cheap edition,
6d...,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary geutleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M.’ Peebles.
7s. fid.  
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENOE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, MD., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OP FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITOHORAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. Cs.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com-
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Olairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub. at ?». fid.) 4s.,
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer,"
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . •
The Physician. VoL I. Ot. Harmonia . .
The Teacher. „ II. „ . .
The Seer. „ III, „ . ,
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . ,
The Thinker. „ V. „ . • •
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land- . •
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Tmth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children's Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health , . . . •
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age .
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence . •
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . .
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
. 16 0
.76
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
j 7 6
. 7 0
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 C
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 C
.76
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
. 3 0
. 7 6
;. d.
24 0
14 0
6 0
18 0
12 6
15 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . .
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Thb Spibitualist Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting partisulars and legends relating to Buddhism
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) ....
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . .
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ....
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal)
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hiau and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A, Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind:; or. A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Ansesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . ( 3
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . ... . '12
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . ,3
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
' three vols. ... .... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . .' . . . io
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AP.
Special edition for Schools . , , . 1
CARTE DE VISITS PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M,
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman oi Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolv-hus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox’ Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, soimd common sens*, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrieally through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D. Gunning. 9d.
THi ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. E, T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIBITUALIST.
Sept. lt 1876,
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, SprituaUit News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, "W.O. * .
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. but the Association and TJie Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s> 6d., cloth.
OEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
• LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance, medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them'are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions! in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtraj ed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: COLBY AND Rich. London Spirit-
uali «<.Office.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
•U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
0 f subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 88, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
Price 5s.
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Triibner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Rbyiewbes’ Criticisms.
“ Irishmen ought to read this work and be proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the ■writer.’’—Christian World.
“ The somewhat startling proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readers, and for those who may be inclined to take the work
in hand, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are identical, the summary given at the close
being that ‘the Arphaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amount of corrobora¬
tive evidence is adduced in support of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test.”—Rock.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paiis, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do.: The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND
EFFECTS, by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. A review
of this pamphlet appeared in the March number of The
Spiritual Magazine of this year. May be had of W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Price
6d., post free, 7d.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
THE HOME FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
Thk long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Home, on the principle of a private
Boarding House. It is conveniently located for the principal
railways, and is in the very area of the spiritual movement.
Its arrangements have been designed with a special view to
the requirements of Spiritualists.
Applieations should be made as far as possible lu advance.
Manager—Mrs. a. C, Bnrkb.
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,*
89, Great Marlborough Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. TiNIL as a
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTORIUM. For Organ, 4s.
GOUNOD’S JOAN OF ARC. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.R.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3,4, 5, 6, and 7, price 5s.
each.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
BY MISS TREHERNE (MRS. WELDON). — The Brook,
words by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor
Hugo (English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s. On the
Heather, Danish Melody, Kjerulf, 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
. To the Cuckoo, 6d.
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine's Song, 4s. Vivien’s
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
Serenade, for Pianoforte, Hamilton Clarke, 4s. Ditto, arranged
as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Ditto, arranged for Organ, 4s.
AGENTS FOB HENDSCHEL’S CELEBRATED SKETCHES.
As supplied to Her Majesty the Queen.
Part I., with cover, £10. Part II., £3 12s. 6d. Part III., £3 18s.
The Set complete, £17.
SOLE AGENTS FOR BRAUN’S ALPINE SKETCHES.
The Set complete, £3.
These Sketches may be had separately. Catalogues free
by post.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for t he
benefit of Mrs. Wdden's Orphanage.
JEANNE D’ARO. Ck Gounod, 10s.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authob and Otheb
Obsebyebs in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Priee Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messes. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Peess.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination has been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison's opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
faets are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test whieh his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little bopklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Walts Baily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Brice Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Habbison, 38, Geeat Russell Stbeet, London, W.C.
The FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &e. By Allan Kabdeo. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
T> EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JL«J logiques, fondfs par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie,
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Seoond Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modem Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in oloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. 6d. each, post free 11s. 6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
The religio-philosophical
JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modem Spiritualism. Established in 1865.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
HI.
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robebt Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—^narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modem Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869,
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-a- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden); The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenherg:
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas JSt. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dmiphy,
Bamster-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn ; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason: Mr. N.
Fahyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. >H. Wilson, M.A, LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United:Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.”
[December, 1875.]
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
'-J crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire t*
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
AU communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wedtesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Are Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevebidge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbbrn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
