AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 105.—(Vol. Y.—No. 9.) LONDON: AUGrTTST 28j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence-
Contents;.
Materialised Spirits in Philadelphia. By Robert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Naples  97
The 1874 Conference at the Crystal Palace:—Compound Conscious¬
ness—^Reincarnation—The Influence of the Lower Spirits—Paid
Mediums  ,.. ...    100
National Organisation and the Local Societies ■  103
The British Association at Belfast:—Professor Tyndall on Spirit¬
ualism—Spiritualism and Materialism—Professor Huxley on Mes¬
merism—A Belfast Medium  v   103
Poetry:—To Winnie ... ..; ...    >   ... ... 106
Correspondence:—National Organisation, 106; Spirit Identity, 106;
Explanations, 107; A Seance with Messrs. Bastian and Taylor,
108; Alleged Curious Psychological Fact   108
Paragraphs:—^British National Association of Spiritualists, 102; Spirit¬
ualism in Newcastle ...     ... 105
Answers to Correspondents     105
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
HERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modern spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fbitz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion. London : Simpkin, marshall & Co.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
promote the study of Pneumatology and Psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means pf sys¬
tematic investigation into the now recognised facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by
careful scientific research; and to direct attention to the beneficial in¬
fluence which those results are calculated to exercise upon social relation¬
ships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of
every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and
all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Louis Freeman, V ork-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex, of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
East London spiritual meetings.— lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 pm., at Mr. COgman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearebs for 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. I Mr. H. J. Charlton.
'NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
S (Trance Medium).
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Mr. Morse will sail for the United States on Thursday, Octoberloth, 1874.
He has a few vacant dates for September next; early application is
necessary.
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.’’—Spiritualist.
“ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.  
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842. '
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
Mohammed and Mohammedanism: Lectures
delivered at the Royal Institution of Great Britain in February and
March, 1874. By R. BOSWORTH SMITH, M.A. Crown 8vo, 6s.
“A view of Mohammed’s life and doctrines, perhaps more faithful and
more just than any that has before been published."—Academy.
“ A learned, able, and eloquent volume . . . acute thinking, judicial
reasoning, and eloquent exposition.”—Scotsman.
SPIRITUALISM
FROM A NEUTRAL STAND-POINT.
A Resume of Evidence—^ro and con,
BY H. VENMAN.
Post-free for 13 Stamps.
Ingle & Co., 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“lota.") Published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
Aug. 28, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The, Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Eiohaed Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in ''Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Association.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for* this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly ma,de)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
into closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.'
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30. Parkfleld-street, Islington.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOE
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIE’S cotjet),
NEWGATE STREET, NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 8s. quarterly ; 6s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 6s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
TRliBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND. BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure. ByW. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction: Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig
nificance of life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubnhr & Co., 67 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—HxeiBWi N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. /Sec.—Mrs. Lowh (Louisa).
HENRY” B. BUsll7~
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The /Sptritwalisi Newspaper.
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATE STREET, HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing ;of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application.
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “PIONEER OF PROGRESS” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. eadh.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientiflc and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman,
20, Patemoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain,
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national and local,
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
All communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC - SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. GULly, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
Beveridge and
FULLWOOD’
CO., Printers of The
S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Spiritualist
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
X> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
foude par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
I
eJAs) (oJAs
Jrujtm XrJJ Up ^nttb tS[
VOLUjVIE FIVE. JVUJV[BEr\ J^INE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 28th, 1874.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, hut preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of '•'■The Spintualist” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and iivegulari-
t ies, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
TjlEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—Fitzroy-square, W.
MATERIALISED SPIRITS IN PHILADELPHIA.
BY ROBERT DALE OWEN, FORMERLY AMERICAN MINISTER AT
THE COURT OF NAPLES.
In the Spiritualist of JulylOth, just received here, you
express the wish that I or Mr. Sargent would give a
clear and accurate account of some of the phenomena
in materialisation that have appeared in this country.
I have never seen the Eddys, and at Moravia, two years
ago, I was not fortunate enough to find anything worth
recording. But, during a visit of six weeks (com¬
mencing June 5) to Philadelphia, I had forty sittings
with the Holmes’s, and witnessed, then and there,
what has never been equalled in this country, nor ever,
I think, in some of its details, in any other.
Substantially, indeed, it was hut a reproduction and
confirmation of the marvellous phenomena, so patiently
sought out and so accurately described by Mr. Crookes.
But we obtained these results without any human being
in the cabinet, and without any entrancement of the
mediums. The cabinet used was so constructed that
entrance to it, or exit therefrom, except by a door
which opened on the parlour in which we sat, was, as
we verified by thorough examination, a physical impos¬
sibility. Additional precautions of the most stringent
character were taken, but I need not record them, for
they were superfluous.
"We usually sat about eight feet from the cabinet,
and there was light enough distinctly to recognise the
features and actions of every person in the room. The
door of the parlour was locked, except on one occasion,
when a gentleman, at his special request, was allowed
to sit in the corridor outside, so as to assure himself
that no one passed up or down stairs; and on that
evening the parlour door was left open.
Under the circumstances, we had, I think, every
phenomenon which Mr. Crookes has recorded, saving
this, that “ Katie ” did not remain with us in the par¬
lour, in full form, more than five minutes at any one
time without re-entering the cabinet: but she was in
the habit of coming out as often as five or six times in
one evening, if we had a small, select circle, and two
or three times when twenty or more persons were pre¬
sent. I have conversed with “ Katie” at the aperture
more than seventy or eighty times, frequently in regard
to the manner of conducting the sittings. On several
of these occasions she read and replied to my thoughts.
I am as certain that it was the same spirit, from first
to last, as I can be in regard to the identical individu¬
ality of any friend whom I meet daily. Not only by
the bright play of the features and the large, somewhat
sad eyes, with their earnest, honest look, but by the
tone and tenor of her conversation, evincing alike good
sense and good feeling, did I recognise a distinct and
uniform, and, I may add, an amiable and estimable
character. If my friend Mr. S. C. Hall had become
half as well acquainted with “ Katie” as I, he would
98
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 28, 1874.
never write that her presence gave him a shudder
rather than a pleasure, and caused only disagreeable
sensations.. I parted with her, as Mr. Crookes and
Miss Cook did, with great regret, almost as if I were
taking leave of a daughter.
I have seen “ Katie ” issue from the cabinet more
than a hundred times in full form ; passing, in her grace¬
ful way, around the circle and addressing a kind word or
two, or a “ God bless you !” to the friends she knew.
She has suffered me to cut from her head a lock of
hair; and she has herself cut for me, and in my presence,
a piece of her dress, and also of her veil, the former being
apparently fine bishop’s lawn, and the latter a bit of
lace, either of the finest quality of Honiton, or else of
'point de Venise, I am not certain which. She has allowed
me to touch her hand, her face, her person, and to kiss
her on the forehead; she then taking my face in both
her hands, and giving me a similar kiss in return. She
has handed me from the cabinet aperture a nosegay of
red and white roses, wet as with heavy dew, and I
found among them a little note, asking my acceptance
of them. During a private sitting I gave her a mother-
of-pearl cross, with a piece of white silk cord attached,
together with a small note, folded up, in which I had
written : “ I offer you this, dear Annie, because, though
it be simple, it is white and pure and beautiful, as you
are.” She took both, did not open the note, suspended
the cross from her neck, kissed it, and retreated to the
cabinet, closing the door. In a minute or two she re¬
turned, with the cross in one hand and the folded note
in the other, bent over me and said, in her low, earnest
voice, and with her charming smile : “ White and pure
and beautiful like me—is it ?” How did she read that
note ? The cabinet, with its door closed, and its aper¬
tures covered with black curtains, is, as I have often
verified, quite dark. Ever after, when she appeared,
she wore that cross on her breast, reminding one of the
well-known lines in Pope’s Rape of the Lock. I ob¬
served that, at times, when she issued from the cabinet,
this cross shone, as with a phosphorescent lustre. She
had also given to her, by visitors, a ring, a bracelet,
and a locket, which she frequently wore. The most
usual gifts, however, were nosegays, and these seemed
to give her especial pleasure; she frequently, after
smelling them, remarked to me how charmingly fra¬
grant they were. On one occasion I handed to her a
hair chain which had been presented to me by a friend,
since deceased. This she took with her and returned
next day with a message from her who had given it to
me.
I was in the habit, after each sitting, of carefully
examining the cabinet; but neither cross, nor ring, nor
bracelet, nor locket, nor chain was ever to be found;
minute search, with a light, did not even reveal a rose-
leaf.
"With such or similar phenomena you are doubtless
familiar; but I have seen u Katie,” on seven or eight
different occasions, suspended, in full form, about two
feet from the ground for ten or fifteen seconds. It was
within the cabinet, but in full view; and she moved
her arms and feet gently, as a swimmer, upright in the
water, might do. / I have seen her, on five several
evenings, disappear and reappear before my eyes, and
not more than eight or nine feet distant. On one
occasion, when I had given her a Calla lily, she gradually
vanished, holding it in her hand, and fading out from
the head down; and the lily remained visible after the
hand which held it was gone; the flower, however.
finally disappearing also. When she reappeared, the
lily came back also, at first as a bright spot only, which
gradually expanded into the flower. Then “Katie”
stepped out from the cabinet, waving to us, with all
her wonted grace, her adieu ere she finally retired for
the evening. Thus I have seen a material > object, as
well as a spirit, vanish and reappear.
At the close of my farewell sitting, which had been
appointed by “ Katie ” herself for mid-day, July 16, the
door of the cabinet opened slowly, without visible
agency. Nothing was to be seen within except the
black walnut boards; but after a minute or two there
appeared—exactly as if emerging from the floor—first
the head and shoulders of “ Katie,” then her entire
body; and, as on previous occasions, after standing a
few seconds, she stepped into the parlour and saluted us.
Immediately under the parlour and the cabinet was a
shop where musical instruments were sold; at that
hour open to, and frequented by customers. When the
amazement created by such a sight had somewhat
subsided, I thought of the text which speaks of Samuel,
at En-dor, “ arising out of the earth.”
I may add that, during an evening sitting at which
my friend Mrs. L. Andrews, of Springfield, Massachusetts
and I alone were present, there issued, in full form, from
the cabinet, two figures besides “ Katie,” namely an
Indian girl, taller than “ Katie,” with dark face and
rich Indian costume, who advanced to us, allowed us
to touch her hands and her dress, and gave her name as
“Sauntee;” and afterwards a sailor boy, who told us
he was “ Dick,” a spirit that had several times spoken
to us in a dark circle. It was the first time either of
these had appeared. They were as perfectly materialised
as "“Katie” herself, came close up to us and spoke
to us distinctly, though only a few words.
If Mr. Serjeant Cox had been present at the best of
these seances (settling for ever the cabinet question) he
would have admitted (to use his own words) that “ the
most wonderful fact the world has ever witnessed” is
“ established beyond controversy.” He was unwise in
one of his efforts after the truth, for in spiritual research
the Gordian knot must not be cut, but patiently untied :
yet I find no fault with it that he exacts, in a case like
this, incontrovertible evidence. Christ did not chide
Thomas because he withheld belief until he had seen
with his eyes and touched with his hands.
The side question of identity is less conclusively
settled. In somewhat strange contrast with “ Katie’s”
high-bred finish of manner when she walks forth from
the cabinet, are a few of her peculiarities.^ When those
who ought to know better, making light of the occasion,
have spoken to her after what is sometimes called a
chaffing fashion, she has replied, if she replied at all,
in the same tone; using such expressions as “Of course
I be,” “ I can’t,” “ I shan’t,” and giving to the a in
these words and in the word “ thank,” its broad sound,
as in hail; occasionally, too, jestingly calling the
mediums or Dr. Child “ stoopid.” But whenever I have
conversed with her alone, I have detected no triviality;
her language has been that of an educated woman and
her sentiments those of a kind (and a good one. On
such occasions she has more than once reminded me that
her mission here was to give to the children of this
world conclusive evidence of their immortality. One
day she said to me: “ Some of my English friends
misinterpreted my parting words. I took final leave
not of your earth but of dear Elorrie Cook, because my
continuance with her would have injured her health.”
Aug. 28, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
99
The apparent discrepancies of bearing and manner
in “Katie,” are, I think, philosophically accounted
for in a communication from her, made through the
mediumship of Dr. Child, on June 5, in these words:
My Deae Friend,—I should be sorry if you inferred that
the way in which T sometimes appear and speak to you and
to other friends, when I am materialised, is a true exponent
of my present condition, and that the rude and trifling
manner then exhibited is a real reflection of my interior state.
It is important you should know that spirits either in or out
of the form, as you call it, are to a very great extent subject
to the influences of the material elements with which they are
clothed; and if I could have you spend a little time with me, in
an appreciative manner, in my interior home in spirit-land, you
would not know me as the same Katie that calls you “ stupid”
and uses expressions which are often quite repulsive to my
inner consciousness. The laws of spiritual manifestation are
absolute, and whenever a spirit approaches a medium it must
be more or less materialised, first in order to come into the
atmosphere of the earth, and then into that of the medium ;
and, if it presents itself in form, it is obliged, under a law, to
appear as nearly as may be as it was when it passed from the
earth. Thus a child of earth, though grown to maturity in
spirit-life, returns as a child. Deformed persons present their
deformities with precision. Spirits retain not only the recol¬
lection of the earthly conditions and appearances, but also
the power of assuming them in spirit-life whenever it is
desirable.
You will see the importance of this power of maintaining
or recurring to the primitive conditions of spirit-life, at least
for a time, and until all those to whom a recognition is neces¬
sary shall have passed into that state ; for this power is retained
so as to be easily exercised, until after all who are living on
the earth at the time a spirit enters this world have also
passed on, so that the new-born spirit cannot fail to recognise
its friends and relations. I am requested to say to you that
all spirits, when they return to earth, whether they communi¬
cate or not, are absolutely subject to this law. They must
assume the conditions they had when they left the earthly form,
although they may bring to earth many thoughts and ideas
which they have acquired in the interior life ; but even these
are somewhat modified by being presented through the
necessary conditions which surround them at the time; for
instance, scholars from the spirit-land, speaking through
mediums who are ignorant of language and the rules of
grammar, may be compelled to use the incprrect expressions of
the medium. It is a truth that “ the spirits of the prophets
are subject to the prophetsand every spiritual communica¬
tion that has ever been given has been more or less modified
by the channel through which it has passed, as well as by the
essentially materialistic conditions which spirits may have
been compelled to assume when they came into the earth’s
atmosphere and into rapport with mediums.
In truth, we expect too much from spirits returning
to this world. Some of our newspaper critics, putting
the cui bono question, appear to think that “Katie”
ought to come out and give us a sermon. She seems,
unlike many who do preach, to be conscious of her
incapacity. She has demonstrated to us immortality:
what earthly task is more important ?
As to her (alleged) parentage, as daughter of “ John
King ” (Henry Morgan), the buccaneer, the following
bit of autobiography, coming, like the extract already
given, through Dr. Child, may interest your readers:—
I was bom in London, England, on the 12th day of May, old
style, 1660, at eight o’clock in the morning.* If I were to con¬
sult my own feelings, I should say very little about my earth-
life and surroundings; but my advance and happiness in
spirit-life depends in a measure upon the performance of this
duty, and my father and mother request me to do it. I espe¬
cially desire, here in advance, to state that in making these
avowals, I judge not nor condemn either of my parents; or,
indeed, any one else. My father, my mother, and myself, have
been loving companions throughout our peculiar labours in
spirit-life.
My father was a man so passionate, so irritable and intem¬
perate in his habits, that at times it was dangerous for any one
to be with him. My earliest recollection, when I was about
* Miss Cook's Katie said she was bom and lived in Wales.—Ed.
three and a half years old, is of a scene in which he terribly
abused my mother; indeed, he almost killed her. I was
dreadfully alarmed, and screamed until the neighbours rushed
in to see what the matter was. The shock of that scene
seriously injured my health, and aggravated the nervous and
irritable condition which I inherited. I have told you from
the cabinet window, in my materialised form, that I was in
London when St. Paul’s church was burned; that was at the
great fire in 1666. Though I was then but six years old,
I distinctly recollect that fearful conflagration. It was another
shock which jarred my nervous system.
Father had gone to the West Indies and Panama, leaving
mother and me in very destitute circumstances. Mother was
a weak woman, physically and mentally, though she had many
excellent traits of character; and had but the circumstances
of her life been different, she would have been respected and
esteemed by those who knew her. Our poverty made it neces¬
sary for her to perform the most ordinary labour; and as far
as I was able I assisted her in this. I had comparatively but
little education, there being then no schools in London that
were accessible to people in our condition, nor was there
much inclination on my part to study. My time was engrossed
in doing what I could to help make our scanty living, for we
heard nothing from father, nor received from him any aid
whatever, till I was about ten years of age. Then he returned
to London, bringing with him many presents and the means
of making us quite comfortable. Those only who have expe¬
rienced such a change as this from abject poverty to a condi¬
tion in which we had all our desires, can realise what our
enjoyment was at this time.
Father, like many men under evil influences, resolved that
he would amend; and for a short time—alas, too brief !—we
were a happy family. His dissipated habits, however, re¬
curred, and when he had squandered the means which he had
brought home, he renewed his abuse of mother and me. We
suffered more severely than if we had not found this little
oasis in the desert of our lives.
It is terribly grievous now to recall those scenes. It was
about this time that, in a fit of intoxication, my father struck
mother in the face, breaking her nose, and so disfiguring her
that during the remainder of her life it amounted to a serious
deformity, and shows itself to this day, whenever she is
materialised, seeing that she is obliged to come just as she
was when she passed out of your world. This constant
record of rebuke to father has caused him very great pain.
Soon after this, father departed again for the West Indies,
whence he never returned to us, and we seldom heard from
him. I saw him there after I passed over to spirit-life.
Mother’s deformity, added to our poverty, rendered it more
difficult than before to find her wonted employment, and it
was only by the most menial labour on both our parts, that
we procured the means of subsistence. Thus we dragged out
a miserable existence, until at last, when about eighteen
years of age, the angel of death released me from the prison-
house of the body.
One incident connected with the terrible history of my
earth-life remains to be told. It is with deep grief that I
recall it; but do not, on that account, let any mistaken
sentiment of pity induce you to suppress it. There are laws
from which none of us can escape, according to which spirits
recur, through long ages, to past transgressions, until they
have opportunity, through public confession or otherwise, to
expiate the past. I shall be released from afflicting memo¬
ries when you shall give to your world the incident to which I
have referred. It is this :
At the age of seventeen, despite rough labour and sordid
surroundings, I was attractive in face and person. With the
advantages of such appliances towards physical development
as wealth and culture command, I should have been reputed
beautiful. I was but little past that age, when I was seduced,
under promise of marriage, by a man whom I thought I loved,
and who abandoned me soon after he discovered my situation.
When, amid shame, degradation, and abject penury, my
daughter was born, we both passed to a better world; nor did
I see my babe till I found her here.
It is ended! Here in Heaven there is no concealment of
act or thought. The soul, in loving freedom, acts up to its
highest and noblest impulses, and the result is endless pro¬
gression with peace and joy for evermore.
Until now to you, as father confessor, I have never been
able to give these facts in a connected narrative, though they
have been known to others. I furnish them now, not for my
own sake alone. The lesson they teach may be a blessing to
others, as it has been to myself.
100
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 28, 1874.
This domestic story, sad, simple, and straightforward
has, I think, a truthful ring throughout. I conside
Dr. Child trustworthy as an impressional medium, and
his good faith is unquestionable. But “Katie” has
herself set before us reasons for the belief that every
such communication is more or less modified by the
channel through which it passes.*
In the early records of American Spiritualism there
is a remarkable item, corroborative of “ John King’s ”
identity. Twenty-two years ago (in 1852) the Koon
family in Ohio, had very striking dark-circle mani¬
festations; and in the history of that movement we
find this paragraph :—
“ Foremost of the leaders was a spirit who subsequently
became the controller of the Davenport brothers’ manifesta¬
tions ; and though he retained the generic (?) title of ‘ King,’
he claimed to be one ‘ Morgan,’ a famous Welsh pirate, who,
while living on earth, had been knighted by Charles II. of
England, and appointed Governor of Jamaica.”—(Modem
American Spiritualism, by Emma Hardinge, pp. 309, 310.)
I have consulted what is deemed one of the best
histories of the Buccaneers, and find that Sir Henry
Morgan (who was for a time Governor of Jamaica, and
was knighted by Charles II.) was a well-known buc¬
caneer leader, commanding, on one occasion, fourteen
vessels on an expedition which crossed the1 Isthmus of
Panama, killing many of the inhabitants and collecting
much booty. But we cannot imagine that a family of
ordinary western farmers should have known anything
in regard to out-of-the way historical details like these.
As to the identity of the “ Katie ” who appeared to us
with the “ Katie ” who was the subject of Mr. Crookes’
investigations, I see strong reason for admitting it, and
little or none for denying it. In the main, our ex¬
perience on this side is but the counterpart of yours,
with such advance as, in the progress of all phenomenal
experiments, is to be expected. I do not believe we
could have succeeded as we did in Philadelphia, unless
you had prepared the way for us in London, nor unless
we had been aided by the same spirit that had acquired,
during three years’ experience with Plorence Cook as
medium, the skill—if I may use the earthly expression—
which enables her to present herself in veritable earthly
guise.
To judge by the London photograph of “Katie,” taken
with Dr. Gully, the beautiful form and features with
which we are familiar here do not resemble those which
appeared to you, nor is there here, as there was in
London, any resemblance whatever between the spirit-
form and either of the mediums. The face of your
“ Katie,” smiling as she looks down at the old gentle¬
man,! suggests the adjectives pretty and interesting. The
face of our “ Katie” is rather Grecian in its regularity.
Earnestness, with a passing touch of weariness,
is its habitual expression; and even its smile, though
bright, has an occasional dash of sadness in it. One
thinks of it as unquestionably handsome, as full of
character, as intellectual, and withal as singularly
attractive; but one would never term it pretty. The
nose is straight, not aquiline as in the London photo¬
graph ; and the large eyes are dark grey, with a bluish
tinge. The hair, in beautiful ringlets, is fine and
literally golden in hue. “ Katie’s ” face is somewhat
broader than the classical model; the upper lip less
short and the features less delicately chiselled; yet both
* Very true. Had Dr. Child ever in his normal state been told about
the broken nose ? for for years Mr. Heme has persisted that when he saw
the el ler Katie clairvoyantly she had a broken nose. The Holmes’s no
doubt kne^ this.—Ed.
| Dr. Gully.—Ed.
features and expression more nearly resemble those of
some old statue than they do the lineaments and looks
of Elorence Cook, so far as one can judge from her
photograph. But in this case identity must be judged
by internal evidence, not by outward form, the mediums,
from whom is derived a necessary portion of the
elements to materialise here and there, being entirely
different.
More than this brief sketch of what I witnessed
during six eventful weeks I cannot now furnish. Life
and health permitting, I may embody in a future work,
perhaps, to be called Phenomenal Proof of a Better Life
to Come, all the more important details.
If, now, I am asked where all this is to end; what
is to come of it, in case familiar converse with visitors
from another world shall continue to be permitted here;
I reply that that is not our affair. We have to deal,
for the present, with facts, not with the results from
facts. We are not the governors of this world, and
need not trouble ourselves with predictions looking to
the ultimate consequences of natural phenomena.
Cosmical order has never, so far, been disarranged by
any new class of truths; and if we fear that it ever
will be, we shall merit the reproach : “ Oh ye of little
faith!”
I hold it of all human privileges the greatest to have
been permitted to observe these phenomena. To witness
them marks an era in one’s life.
Lake George, New York, August 1, 1874.
THE 1874 CONFERENCE AT THE CRYSTAL
PALACE.
The proceedings of the 1874 Conference up to the morning
of Friday, August 7th, have been published in preceding
numbers of this journal; it therefore remains only to give the
proceedings on the evening of that day at the Marble Hall,
Crystal Palace, when the business of the Conference came to
a close. Dr. Sexton presided.
COMPOUND CONSCIOUSNESS.
Mr. Algernon Joy, secretary, read a paper by Mr. Robert
Harper on “ Compound Consciousness,” in which he stated
that there are more phases of consciousness than one, as ex¬
emplified by the phenomena of dreams, somnambulism, and
what has been termed “ electro-biology,” which facts ought
to be observed and classified. He alleged that horrible dreams
gave evidence of some other consciousness than our own,
projecting its ideas and images into the sleeper’s conscious¬
ness ; to say such dreams were caused by indigestion
was equivalent to stating that a mere condition of non-
intelligent forces could produce a set of ideas thoroughly
intelligent.* Such dreams occurred also when there was
no condition of indigestion or overladen stomach. The
occasional prediction of future events by dreams proved
the reality of another mode or sphere of consciousness, as
well as a higher intelligence than that which accompanies the
normal state. In somnambulism material things are seen
without the use of the ordinary organs of sight. The facts of
mesmerism prove that there is another mode of consciousness,
which can be excited by external things without the use of the
ordinary organs of sense, also that the thoughts and visions
of one person can be compulsorily projected by will-power
into the mind of another. In spirit mediumship there is
another step ; the thoughts of persons in the spiritual state
can be projected into the consciousness of persons in the
physical state; they can make the mortal feel intense affection
or dislike towards persons whom he never met before. In in¬
spirational mediumship many spirits can infuse their thoughts
into the consciousness of the medium; it is not so easy to
* We know a thoroughly reliable person who says he never dreams ex¬
cept after late and heavy suppers, and then can always trace his dreams
to an incoherent mixture of thoughts which had been in his head on the
previous day. For instance, one morning he received a parcel by the
London Parcels Delivery Company, in the evening he met and conversed
with a Bev.Mr. Clark; he went to bed that night after too much supper,
and in a dream saw the Rev. Mr. Clark driving a Parcels Delivery van with
praiseworthy skill. Where is the evidence of another consciousness inter¬
fering to cause such dreams?—Ed.
Aug. 28, 1874. THE SPIEITUALIST. 101
prove this, but clairvoyant observers have often testified to
seeing myriads of spirits mentally influencing an inspirational
medium at the same instant of time. Who, then, is the
originator of such ideas ? Not one of the numberless spirits.
Original ideas exist only in God, who is the soul and body of
nature, or the sum total of whatever exists, and His ideas are
sensed or perceived in nature in accordance with the receptivity
and thoughtful energy of the individual; there is therefore no
infallibility in the statement of any spirit, for each will give
his own version of an original idea in his own way. Much
will depend upon the organisation of , the' individual and
the time, and the same idea may have a very different
effect upon the individual at different times. Deeper
-still in this subject of consciousness there is a region
of it wherein the subjects of the consciousness are common to
vast myriads of personal individualities existing on the same
plane of organic being. This region has been very correctly
described as the “ impersonal consciousness,” because the
subjects or sensations of it are identically alike in vast compa¬
nies of spirits who live together, and are bound together
chiefly by this identity of consciousness. The moral depart¬
ment of the organic structure of these beings is tuned so accu¬
rately to nature, or the God personality, that the symphonies
of their myriad host are like an exquisite performance upon
the single string of a harp or violin. Pouring forth all the
melody of their sublime capacities through certain single
human individuals, these individuals are thus also affiliated
to very high regions in the one Infinite Personality ; and it
becomes at once intelligible and rational, how, or on what
principles, there Can exist one infinite CQnsciousness, rami¬
fying into all the myriad grades of organic being, and
descending even to the granite rock.
REINCARNATION.
This subject has, however, one other phase which it is the
principal intention of the present paper to inquire into ; this
phase is the much controverted question of reincarnation.
The facts set forth as the foundation of the Allan Eardec
theory, were to the author capable of a different interpreta¬
tion, through the facts of compound consciousness. The
memory of previous lives, lived on this same planet, or upon
some other planet, in some other system, is at once intelligible,
if referred to the blending of the consciousness of an individual
who actually did live such a life, with the conscioushess of a
mortal now on this earth. Their united memories become
one memory, segregated, however, into chapters, without any
connecting links to the chapters; and it is precisely the want
of these connecting links which, more than aught else, makes
the Eardec theory untenable. If we take the soul-memory of
a single individual who has lived a physical life here and then
passed on to an inner state, what do we find ? We find there
is the perfect memory of a spiritual life, lived simultaneously
with the physical life; that the only break in the otherwise
perfect memory which connects the life in the physical with
the spiritual life now being lived, is the few moments, some¬
times only a few seconds, during the parturition or birth into
spirit-life wholly. The memory of the rich and rare enjoy¬
ments of a life in which sentiments of royal compassion for all
such as may be struggling below, or in the lower phases of
development, is at once the common bond of sympathy
and the royal memory shared by the royal children of God.
The representation of the more than mysterious Allan Eardec,
of a coming back to the earth-sphere in the sense of being re¬
born into it through physical parents, was as contradictory
to the author’s ideas of the whole genius of the plan of the
universe, as it would be if the physical sun of this system were
to return to its cometary or nebulous state, the occurrence
would utterly derange the mighty economy of the arch-system
of which our system is a small fragment. Since, however, the
theory had been accepted by very large numbers of persons
in France and elsewhere, it became of importance to provide
the means of counteracting a belief so essentially mischievous.
They were told by the Eardecites that the very success of the
universal plan depends upon their views being the correct
exposition of omniscient wisdom. The mission of all men is
to do just so much good as they may be able to accomplish with
their especial opportunities. The mystery of blended memo¬
ries, and of the assertion by any number of individuals that
they are at the same moment a certain individual, and that
individual’s grandmother also, might be quite readily explained
without any reference to fraud or deceit on the part of mortal
or spirit.
Proof of a very sufficient moral motive for making one
moral crusade against mischievous conceptions of the work-
ng out of the Divine plan of creation, might be given by
shewing what one result of the Eardec doctrine really would
be. That result must necessarily be the creation of a spiritual
world of ruffians, who not concerned for the miseries of
others, would at any cost, seek their own reincarnation, in
order thereby to advance themselves in the moral and material
conditions only obtainable through reincarnation. This result
was so radically opposed to all that thinkers 'know of the
genius of the method of evolution for the children of men,
that the reverence he habitually cherished for the opinions of
others gave way to a contempt which was only expressible in
the words of William Shakspeare, “ Wisdom will not die with
you,”* my friend Eardec. One other result of the doctrine is
the creation of a monomania for reincarnation by spirits who
go out of physical life with this fixed conviction in their
minds. They will be a long time in getting rid of so absorbing
and enthralling an idea, and the progress which might other¬
wise become possible for them will be cut off because of the
paralysis of their powers by this superlatively solemn mistake.
Surely the miseries of the earth-life once passed through are
enough to satisfy even those most greedy of progress through
suffering. When the mighty tale of the revolution of the coming
centuries is told, it will be quite apparent that the force of
the real modes of working out progress for humanity have
been the best adapted to the vast melodrama; and that any
other would have been considerably inferior. If the human
soul, while encased in clay, can not only hold communion
with,.but become saturated by; and ennobled, through con¬
junction with the forces, the personality, the very conscious¬
ness of the superior grades of being above us, why should it
be necesary also to come back to earth to obtain the means of
progressive unfoldment? Instances were numerous of the
proved progress of persons on the spiritual side, by mental
contact with, and by sharing the consciousness of, persons
now in physical life. To take away the great scientific truth,
that Divinity can only descend to lower grades of being
through affinity with higher grades, would be to rob our
great philosophy of its brightest gem. To insert in place of
it the dismal superstition that rich and wise spirits are to
come back into the earth state for the purpose of being
rounded out into fuller and richer harmony of structure, was
to reverse the whole order of the established programme, and
to invoke a mildew and a corroding influence to brighten and
to clarify the wisdom faculties of our nature.
Mr. John Chapman, of Liverpool, said that all he could state
about Mr. Harper’s paper was that he did not understand a
word of it; it appeared to him to be a mass of assumptions
and indescribable ideas, which he was sorry he was wholly
unable to grasp.
Mr. H. T. Humphries, barrister-at-law, proposed a vote of
thanks to Mr. Harper for his paper; he did not consider the
paper to be altogether clearly written, but he thought that
Mr. Harper had done good service in bringing forward sound
and cogent arguments against reincarnation. As for the
statement in the New Testament that John the Baptist was
Elias—a saying often quoted by reincarnationists—he thought
it simply meant that he was inspired by Elias.
Mr. Algernon Joy seconded the motion of a vote of thanks;
he thought that parts of the paper were written in a rather
grandiloquent style, but that they contained some good ideas.
Mr. John Chapman said that he did not intend any slight
to Mr. Harper by his previous remark, and that perhaps on
carefully reading the paper he might be better able to under¬
stand its contents.
Dr. Sexton said that since so many Continental Spiritualists
held the reincarnation doctrine, it must be an important one;
he did not think some of the remarks against Mr. Harper’s
paper to be altogether just.
Dr. Inman said that what Mr. Harper had said about
dreams and digestive organs was quite wrong; medical men
often get rid of the dreams by attending to the digestive
system; they knew the mental state to depend very much
upon the physical state, so if Spiritualists excluded considera¬
tion of the latter they would put themselves out of court
so far as the medical profession and physiologists were
concerned. With that exception he thought the paper a very
interesting one, and he had had no difficulty in compre¬
hending Mr. Harper’s ideas. (Applause.)
Miss Eislingbury: In what sense does Mr. Harper say that
no spirit originates an idea ?
Mr. Algernon Joy: He says that original ideas must come
from God.
* These words in slightly toetter form were uttered by Job.—Ed,
102
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 28, 1874.
Mr. Humphries : I think that to be a truism which we can¬
not combat; even if we say that the human organism
generates an idea, Divine Intelligence made that organism, so
it comes to the same thing.
Miss Kislingbury: How very few ideas we get through
mediums which cannot be worked out by cultivated intellects
in their normal state.
Mr. D. Richmond said that for a man to have spirituality
was not enough; he must have principles, and appreciate
truth, justice, and righteousness. Spirits had tried to en¬
trance hifn, but he claimed that unless they could give him
some revelation higher than he could gain in any other way,
he had the right to reject them; it was the right of manhood.
No spirit had the right to subject him to law purposes ; it was
contrary to the principle of equity.
Mr. E. D. Rogers said that it would be a great pity if
Spiritualists shirked tjie question of reincarnation, for of all the
questions looming in the future he thought that the one most
likely to cause a great split in the ranks of English Spiritualists.
He had read Count Pomar’s novel in which so much about
reincarnation was introduced; -in fact, the substance of the
book was that a young married couple spent their whole
honeymoon in discussing the question. (Laughter.) He
thought that the theological part of the book was the most
inconclusive; but so far as the philosophical arguments were
concerned the book demanded very serious study. He hoped
that the arguments could not be demonstrated to be true, but
at all events they were good enough to demand serious atten¬
tion, and he hoped that before the next Conference Spiritualists
would have really mastered all the details of the question, and
be able to meet the difficulty fairly.
Mr. Algernon Joy mentioned how the Baroness Yay, of
Austria, had published in the Spiritualist that she always has
a sensation as if at some time her head had been cut off, and
that she had since been told by spirits that she was the rein¬
carnation of somebody who had been decapitated in the first
French Revolution.
Dr. Inman said that he knew a lady who was perfectly
certain that her head was in the habit of opening and shutting
occasionally (laughter); but she fortunately observed that
eating some farinaceous food at the moment would put it
right again. (Laughter.) If psychologists let their imagina¬
tions run riot, they would be like ships at sea without a
rudder.
Dr. Sexton said that in Notes and Queries some years ago,
there were many curious facts about persons visiting places
for the first time, and having so clear an impression that they
had been there before, as in some cases to be able to give
practical proof that they had some knowledge of the locality.
In some instances rooms visited by persons who thus
recognised them, had been built after they were born, so re¬
incarnation would not explain the difficulty. It could be
better explained by the assumption that spirits who knew the
locality influenced their thoughts. (Hear, hear.)
Mr. D. Richmond said that he had personally had the ex¬
perience sometimes of knowing much about places he visited
for the first time, and had been told that the impressions had
been given to him by spirits who knew the place.
THE INFLUENCE OF THE LOWER SPIRITS.
Mr. Ganney said that some of the lower spirits wished to
influence him to produce physical manifestations, and he
objected to their controlling him; they were trying to force
him, and argued that it was his duty to give way because of
the good the manifestations would do for the world.
Dr. Sexton said that he would not for a moment allow any
spirit to obtain undue control of him; he preferred to use his
own body and senses, and not to give them up to somebody he
did not know.
Mr. J. J. Morse said that as a trance medium he had long
objected to another consciousness acting upon him, but that
in his case he had discovered that that other consciousness
not only did not attempt to interfere with his liberty,
but sometimes did not aid him when it had the power,
and left him to work his way out of his own difficulties
that he might feel his own responsibility and gain
personal experience. His spirits emphatically disagreed
with the doctrine of reincarnation; they say that the
alleged fact does not come within their own experience,
and that they have never met any spirit who had had the
experience; it was true they had met some spirits who had
vague ideas that the doctrine was true, and that they had had
personal experiences in connection with reincarnation; but
when called upon to give details in chapter and verse, their
experiences proved to be of a fragmentary and dreamy cha¬
racter, and not decided and clearly cut. If reincarnation
proved to be true, he and others would have to accept it
whether they liked it or not; for his own part he hoped that
it was not true. He could not sing, and if, on entering the
next world, he found that he must return in a physical body
to this one to get over the imperfection, he should be very
sorry. He would rather go for ever without a knowledge of
singing, than pass again through all the sorrow and trouble he
had known in his present earth-life, merely for the sake of
learning to sing.
Mr. Ganney said that he had tried to bring the Royal
Osborne Bell Ringers together, as desired, at that meeting at
the Crystal Palace, but he and some of the members were
mediums, and the spirits objected to his doing so, and had
announced their intention of preventing it. He went after
one member of the band to make sure, and found that the
spirits had influenced him to go to the Palace ; he then came
to the Palace, and found that the spirits had made him go
away again. (Laughter.) In short, the spirits were so inter¬
fering with their business affairs, that they must either give
way to them altogether or give up mediumship altogether.
His experience with the lower spirits, if he told it—and he
would not damp the meeting or take up its time by doing so
—would lead many to think that Spiritualism was dangerous
and not beneficial.
PAID MEDIUMS.
Mr. E. T. Bennett moved a vote of thanks to Mr. Morse for
the work he had done, as provincial secretary and in other
ways, to aid the British National Association of Spiritualists.
He often heard disparaging remarks about paid mediums, but
when he paid a few shillings for being present at a seance, he
looked upon it as just the same as if he paid the usual annual
fee for admission to the Royal Institution courses of lectures;
mediums were as much entitled to be paid when they did duty
for the public as were first class scientific men.
Mr. Rogers seconded the vote of thanks, which was carried
with acclamation.
Mr. Morse returned thanks, saying that the recognition of
the aid he had given was quite unexpected, and that the work
had been a great pleasure to him. The chief characteristics
of the National Association were intelligence and capacity,
whereby it could creditably carry on operations for the good
of Spiritualism, and all such work he felt it to be his duty to
aid. (Applause.)
Mr. Benjamin Coleman proposed a vote of thanks to the
chairman, which was carried unanimously.
Dr. Sexton returned thanks.
Mr. H. T. Humphries proposed a vote of thanks to the
honorary secretaries, Miss Kislingbury and Mr. Joy, saying
that the Association was under a heavy debt of gratitude to
them for all they had done.
Mr. E. D. Rogers seconded the motion, saying that they
should not only be thanked for the amount of the work, but
for the very efficient manner in which it had been performed.
A vote of thanks was a somewhat poor return, but it was the
best return the Association could make.
Mr. Joy said he had some diffidence in accepting the vote
of thanks, for he knew that he had not done his share of the
work, which was all the moire to the credit of Miss Kisling¬
bury ; he was not even a member of the Conference Com¬
mittee, but as the secretary to the Committee could not do the
work, he (Mr. Joy) had worked irregularly at it, in time
snatched from urgent business.
Miss Kislingbury thanked the meeting; she could not
accept the lion’s share of its gratitude, and could not have
got through the work without the aid of Mr. Joy.
The proceedings then closed.
British National Association of Spiritualists.—
There was a special meeting of the Council of this Association
on Monday, the 17th instant, to consider the resolutions
passed at the late Conference, so far as these demanded any
action on the part of the Council:—1. It was resolved, “ That
rules 9,10, and 11 of the Association having been reconsidered
at the request of the Conference, be retained as they stand.”
2. Also, “ That the votes of all the members of the Associa¬
tion be taken by means of voting papers, on the question
whether or no the whole of the Principles and Purposes shall
be struck out, and some addition made to rule two, embodying
the greater part of the 1st, 3rd, and 4th clauses of the Pur¬
poses. ” The meeting was then made ordinary, and different
items of business transacted.
Aug. 28, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
103
NATIONAL ORGANISATION AND LOCAL SOCIETIES.
Now that the question of the national organisation of
Spiritualists is coming before local societies, it may be of
service to briefly state the position of the case. In the
summer of 1874 the Liverpool Psychological Society inaugu¬
rated a National Conference.of Spiritualists at Liverpool, at
which all the large towns and large Spiritual societies in the
■United Kingdom were officially or unofficially represented,
and the editors of four of the Spiritual periodicals were
present. It was of course unanimously agreed that union was
better than dissension, and that organisation was better than
disorder; and the Conference having been convened by public
advertisement and circular which stated beforehand that it
intended to take up the subject of national organisation, it
resolved itself into a National Association of Spiritualists.
Mr. Richmond, of Darlington, moved an amendment, but the
statements he made were contradicted by a deputation sent to
the Conference by the Darlington Society of Spiritualists, and
nobody voted for or seconded his amendment. It was thought
that the head-quarters of the National Association ought to be
in London. After the Liverpool meeting the Council held a vast
number of meetings in London, in drawing up the rules and
constitution. It was felt that it was necessary that the con¬
stitution should be such that the National Association could
never grow into anything resembling an ecclesiastical power,
consequently it was decided that its officers and Council
should be elected annually by vote by ballot, that no member
should have more than one vote, in order that the rich should
have no more power over it than the poor, and that every
member should be eligible for election to any of its offices,
from that of president downwards. And in order that mem¬
bers living at a distance should not lose the exercise of their
vote in consequence of inability to attend the annual meeting,
it was resolved that elections should be conducted by a system
of voting papers, to enable the absent to exercise their right
by the aid of the penny post. Being founded on such prin¬
ciples, the Association was quickly joined by nearly all the
oldest, well-known, and most faithful public workers in the
cause of Spiritualism in this country, and the more eminent
and representative Spiritualists abroad have enrolled them¬
selves among its foreign or corresponding members.
The stage has now arrived at which it is asking the friendly
countenance of local societies. It was felt that centralisation
would be bad for the movement, and that local societies ought
not to permit the National Association to have the slightest
influence over them ; consequently it was resolved to ask for
no power at all over local societies ; they are simply asked to
nominally ally themselves with the National Association. It
was further resolved to offer each local society the power of
appointing a representative to vote for it at the meetings of
the National Association, thus giving each local society power
on its own Council, over and above that it may possess through
the votes of individuals who chance to be members of both
societies. One chief reason why these alliances should be
entered into is that it is a duty on the part of Spiritualists to
work together and not to quarrel. Another is that united we
are strong, and can command the serious attention of the
public, as proved by the recent Conference. Disunited
we are weak. If ever we should have to fight against
unfriendly legislation, directly the National Association
raises its voice it will have strong influence for good,
because its prospectus and its directorate show that
it is a strong body; but if the Legislature at the same
time saw from its prospectus that it was also permanently
working in harmony with a great number of other societies
all over the kingdom, they would know at a glance that they
were dealing with a power able, to some extent, to influence
elections, consequently would think it wise to let Spiritualists
alone. The same argument applies to any step the National
Association might take in relation to the outside public. Con¬
sequently, if local societies promote dissension within the
movement by refusing to take part in the management of a
largely representative body and by refusing to recognise it,
they thereby declare in favour of divisions in Spiritualism,
and considerably weaken the hands of its chief organisation
when the latter is working for their good with the outside
public. The word “ affiliation,” as applied to local societies,
is bad, and will probably be changed in a few days; it implies,
perhaps, both seniority and authority, but it is the facts of
the case with which local societies have to do, not mere words;
the latter can be changed. Professor Tyndall explained to the
British Association last Wednesday in what a muddle some of
the ancient philosophers involved themselves, because they
had not arrived at the stage of education which would enable
them to distinguish the difference between words and realities.
All varieties of opinion being represented on the Council of
the National Association, it drew up a declaration of princi¬
ples and purposes generally satisfactory to- everybody, except
one paragraph, which had a theological tinge. Most likely by
the votes of all the members of the Association taken through
the post, the present declaration of principles and purposes
will be abolished next week, and the Association will probably
state that its object simply is “to advance the interests of
Spiritualism.” We have no authority for making this
statement, indeed have never attended one of the Council
meetings, but believe that the opinion of the members is in
favour of the line of action just stated. The Council meetings are
now open to the reporters of the spiritual press, so we intend
soon to regularly publish the proceedings. After the present
“ dead season ” is over, ifthe Council meet monthly to consider
all national questions relating to Spiritualism, its meetings
will become intensely interesting, and as it will be able to
carry out most of its decisions, it will do much good to the
movement at large. The remark is sometimes made that
Spiritualists cannot work together in a friendly way; such is
not the fact with those known to us, but this attempt at
national organisation will bring together friendly and com¬
mon-sense Spiritualists, and leave the impracticable and
quarrelsome to try to find a bond of union among themselves.
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT BELFAST.
(From our ovm Correspondent.)
Belfast, Wednesday Morning.
The annual session of the Parliament of English men
of science and of learning is drawing to a close, and by
to-morrow night the members of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science will have separated
for another year. The meeting so far has been a
thoroughly harmonious one, the whole of the ponderous
machinery having worked with comparatively little
friction.
PKOEESSOB TTHDA1L OH SPHtlTUALISM.
Professor Tyndall could not get through his presi¬
dential address last Wednesday, without having a fling
at Spiritualism; the said attack will have as much
effect upon our steadily growing movement as it would
have had had he directed it against the rotation of the
earth, so it may be viewed with indifference. He said:
Natural events, instead of being traced to physical, were
referred to moral causes, while an exercise of the phantasy
almost as degrading as the Spiritualism of the present day,
took the place of scientific speculation. Then came the mys¬
ticism of the middle ages, magic, alchemy, the neo-platonic
philosophy, with its visionary though sublime abstractions,
which caused men to look with shame upon their own bodies
as hindrances to the absorption of the creature in the blessed¬
ness of the Creator.
It was scarcely good taste or a commendable act for
Professor Tyndall thus to traduce the religious belief of
a proportion of his listeners, and some of his scientific
brethren. Mr. James Wason, president of the Liver¬
pool Society of Spiritualists, was sitting a few feet in
front of him when he made the remark, and among
others present whom we chanced to know was a fair
proportion of Spiritualists. The remark was also in¬
sulting to Professor Tyndall’s three absent friends,
Messrs. Yarley, Crookes, and Wallace, the latter of
whom he praised for his scientific ability further on in
his address. He paused a markedly long time for
applause to follow his hit at Spiritualism, then a little
came in a feeble, hesitating manner from the body of
the hall, but none from the platform on which were
one or two hundred leading men of science. The
following paragraph, which had appeared in the morn¬
ing in The Belfast News-Letter, probably did not dis¬
incline him in the evening to lay stress on his few
words against Spiritualism :—
104
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 28, 1874.
Not long since Professor Tyndall went to the Falls of
Niagara, and must have delighted the Americans when he
returned to the Boyal Institution, and, in describing the geo¬
logical features of the river, proved absolutely that the English
Fall cut and created the American Fall ages ago, and in
time to come will abolish the American Fall altogether. After
finishing what he had to say about Niagara, he proceeded to
lecture upon himself and what the newspapers had been saying
about him, in which congenial occupation he was engaged
after the usual time for closing the Eoyal Institution proceed¬
ings. Once upon a time he went to consult the spirits, and
published a sensation article about what he did at the seance.
He says he made raps by “ nipping his muscles,” he caused
the room to tremble, he turned a wine-glass into a stetho¬
scope, and he made a peculiar buzzing noise by rubbing his
whiskers against a wine-glass. He left the house, he says,
without informing his kind-hearted host that he had been
doing all these things, except that he explained that he did
the buzzing. The explanation was not well received. He
heard raps which he did not make; and he could not find out
where they came from, though he intimated his opinion that
they were made artificially. The experiment with the whiskers
has never been made in public, and if he will only come before
Section A, at Belfast, and make a wine-glass buzz like a
bumblebee when he plays upon it with his whiskers, whilst
the merry twinkle comes from his eyes, the place will be
crowded and the performance viewed with breathless interest.
He must find a scientific title for the performance; if he put
it in plain English, “ Professor Tyndall will Play on a Wine¬
glass with his Whiskers,” everybody would understand it, so
that would not do for the programme of Section A. Professor
Clifford would be horrified. No, the title must be, “ The Pro¬
duction of Sonorous Vibrations in Vitreous Substances,” by
Dr. John Tyndall, F.R.S., LL.D., <fcc., &c., when the public
would read it with all proper awe and reverence, and Professor
Clifford be satisfied, though all the words were not six syllables
long.
The Belfast News-Letter, in which, the preceding
paragraph appeared, is the leading journal in the
North of Ireland, It was established in 1737 and has
reached its 56,040th number; it 'belongs to Mr.
Henderson, the Mayor of Belfast.
The same article said of Professor Tyndall:—
He is the liveliest President the British Association has had
for some time, and, not being of a milk-and-water nature, is
likely to say something to bring down theological or other
storms upon his head; for sailing in smooth water is not
much to his taste. Perhaps the fact of his having been bom
in Ireland causes him to take a certain amount of pleasure in
a “ scrimmage.” It might have been some ancestor of his who,
when annoyed at the fighting not having begun at a fair, and
being anxious for a cause of contention, shouted to a friend,
“ Tread on the tail of my coat, for the love of God ! ”
On the next day (Thursday) Dr. Carpenter showed
some of his belligerent proclivities—which are so well
known to Spiritualists—in a contention with Pro. Hux¬
ley, whoaskedDr. Carpenter, “ Was he trailing his coat ?”
SPIBITUAIiISM AND MATERIALISM.
I thinK that the following leading article from last
Saturday’s Belfast News-Letter, defines the leading
error in Dr. Tyndall’s opening address with much
accuracy. It will be noticed that it advances the
Spiritualistic doctrines of eternal progression, and the
non-existence of absolute evil:—
Among the subjects brought under the notice of the British
Association yesterday, not the least interesting was the pro¬
blem dealt with by Professor Purser about the retardation of
speed of the revolution of the earth upon its axis, and the
consequent gradual lengthening of our days and nights.
Although thousands of millions of years must elapse before
our days become a month long, what will be the condition of
human beings when that time arrives? The tendency of
civilisation is to make the species more beautiful, for savages
are generally ugly; barbaric men and women also are not
particularly handsome; as the poet says—
“ Of Lapland’s filthy people,
Flat-headed, wide-mouthed, we spake;
How they sit round their fires and jabber,
And shriek o’er the fish they bake.”
Madame Rachel could not do as much to improve the appear¬
ance of such persons as the lapse of the ages between this
time and that prognosticated by Professor Parser. And as
men write their passions, their thoughts, and their motives
upon their own features and those of their children, so that
they can be more or less read by the experienced, in like
manner will the future outward improvement of the man be
but an external symbol of his inward condition. Shall we
have grown so pure and immaculate in those days that it will
be absolutely painful to live with each other, and a little
wickedness be in demand for the sake of relief ? Or, will the
human mind, in its expansion, see still something higher than
its own ideal, which it calls “ good,” and something lower
than itself, which it calls “ bad,” so that it must still climb
up the path of infinite progression towards the Great Source
of all love and intelligence, who, rightly or wrongly, was vir¬
tually described by Professor Tyndall in his opening address
to the British Association as the “ Unknown God ! ”
Will they in those days have a statue of gold erected to the
memory of Professor Purser as the first philosopher who
approximately foretold the length of their own days and
nights ? Will they have a statue of the purest brass to the
memory of Professor Tyndall because he compared two drops
of oil to two living cells, intimating by silence that they are
not so dissimilar in nature, whereas between them lies the
great gulf that in the one there is organic life, and in the
other there is none ! The difference between them was lite¬
rally that of life and death. It was as unfair a comparison as
to place a cricket-ball and an orange side by side, to inti¬
mate there was a relationship between the principles on which
they were constructed, and to leave the untrained portion of
his hearers to find out the broken link, which causes the
greater part of his philosophising last Wednesday to fall to
the ground. He traces back life to its simplest observable
element — a living cell — then places life and death side
by side, and does not warn his listeners that the two little
globes, consequently, bear about as much relation to each
other as does a living elephant to a stone horse. He
placed matter and the principle of life side by side, so
that the very illustration, which he handled as if it fa¬
voured materialism — to which we have no dogmatic ob¬
jection if it can be proved to be true—was the strongest
illustration he could have chosen to break down the side of the
case to«which he appeared to be most biassed. The difference
between a living and a dead globule is palpable; nay, in his
own Royal Institution a learned professor not long since spoke
for some time on the enormous difference between the two.
Dr. Odling, or Professor Roscoe—we forget which, but both are
here in Belfast to testify—said that chemists any day may dis¬
cover how to make sugar artificially, just as they have made
alizarine—the colouring principle of the madder plant—arti¬
ficially, or as they now artificially make formic acid, which was
once obtained from the bodies of ants ; but they have never
seen the slightest indication of their being able to make the
smallest vegetable cell or organic form.
To free inquiry and free thought of the most boundless
kind, men of science and all others have the right; but a
philosopher should not lay a chain cable before an audience
with a link altogether missing in the most essential part of the
whole of it, and talk away as if a good link were there, when
there was not even a cracked one—nay, not the ghost of a
link. The following are Professor TyndaU’s exact words in the
vital part of his argument, which, in every sense of the word,
is an “ oily ” one:—
Those who have occupied themselves with the beautiful experiments of
Plateau will remember that when two spherules of olive oil suspended in a
mixture of alcohol and water of the same density as the oil are brought
together they do not immediately unite. Something like a pellicle appears
to .be formed around the drops, the rupture of which is immediately
followed, by the coalescence of the globules into one. There are organisms
whose vital actions are almost as purely physical as that of those drops of
oil. They1 come into contact and fuse themselves thus together. From
such organisms to others a shade higher, and from these to others a shade
higher still, and on through an ever-ascending series, Mr. Spencer conducts
his argument. There are two obvious factors to be here taken into account
—the creature and the medium in which it lives, or, as it is often expressed,
the organism and its environment. Mr. Spencer’s fundamental principle is
that between these two factors there is incessant interaction. The
organism is played upon by the environment, and is modified to meet the
requirements of the environment. Life he defines to be “a continuous
adjustment of internal relations to external relations.
So there is no mistake about it; he lays his wooden horse
and his real horse side by side, as if they were connected, and
as if the “ missing link ” between mind and matter had been
nearly reached, without pointing out that in reality he was
exhibiting the very greatest gulf between them which the
mind of man can conceive. Here, again, are his exact words
Aug. 28, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
105
when he again introduces the illustration of the drops
of oil:—
Trace the line of life backwards, and see it approaching more and more
to what we call the purely physical condition. We reach at length those
organisms which I have compared to drops of oil suspended in a mixture
of alcohol and water. We reach the protogenes of Haeckel, in which we
have “ a type distinguishable from a fragment of albumen only by its finely
granular character." Gan we pause here ? We break a magnet, and flna
two poles in each of his fragments. We continue the process of breakiog;
but, however small the parts, each carries with it, though enfeebled, the
polarity of the whole. And when we can break no longer, we prolong
the intellectual vision to the polar molecules. Are we not urged to do
something similar in the case of life ?
Yes, we are. As Professor Tyndall often tells his audiences,
you go on breaking a magnet and find the broken parts to be
magnets still, and when the pieces are so small that you can
break no further, “ imagination ” comes into play, and pictures
the smallest conceivable portion of the metal as endowed with
magnetism. He has publicly used this argument incessantly.
So in living organisms; down, down, we go, from man
through all the long line of living things, until in the smallest
and simplest of them we still find—life! Therefore, in con¬
tinuing his only analogy by the exercise of the imagination,
the inference is that in smaller organisms still there is yet life,
and not death. His argument starts with the “ line of life ; ”
then, after following it a little way, he inadvertently changes
it into the line of organic form, which is a very different thing.
If he treated his magnetic illustration in the same way, he
might talk about the line of temperature of the smaller par¬
ticles being a continuation of the line of magnetism. He
begins with the “ line of life," and should have kept to it with¬
out shifting to another line half-way on his journey. As long
as there is life in a thing there is no approach to the physical;
it would be a contradiction in terms.
The most vital point of his whole address being thus in dis¬
tinct antagonism to his own argument, and being a thorough
and complete break-down where by silence he indirectly in¬
timates there may be a connecting link, the inference is that
Professor Tyndall has made a mistake in quitting the realms
of experimental physics—in which he shines so deservedly—
to come forth as a philosopher. Professor Huxley is much
more competent to deal with such questions ; and, although
Professor Tyndall, at Liverpool, expressed his regret that fate
had made Professor Huxley a biologist instead of a physicist,
yet “ the noblest study of mankind is man: ” and accurate
knowledge of the laws which govern his affections, his emo¬
tions, his passions, and his intellect is not most readily
gained in the daily handling of crucibles, electro-magnets,
and carbonic acid pumps, although such physical experience
undoubtedly trains a man into habits of clear and correct
thought in his own particular sphere, and to some extent in
other spheres of action.
PEOFESSOR HUXLEY ON MESMERISM.
In the course of his lecture last Monday evening,
Professor Huxley mentioned a case which appeared in
the Journal des Debats, of a French soldier who was
wounded at the battle of Bazeilles. He was shot in the
left parietal bone; he recovered, and it was found that
he was paralysed on the opposite side of the body—that
is to say, his right arm and right leg were completely
paralysed. He led two lives—a normal and abnormal
life. In his normal life he was an exceedingly honest,
well-conducted man; but in his abnormal life he was
an inveterate thief. This perhaps might help to explain
some of the phenomena of mesmerism.
No steps have been taken to form a Psychological
Department of the Biological Section; the plan was
under consideration but fell through.
A BELFAST MEDIUM.
The gentleman in whom trance mediumship is
developing in Belfast, has handed me the following
further account of the sensations:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.'1*
Sir,—Sitting in my chair to-day, my head began to vibrate
from side to side with remarkable velocity, as it has some¬
times been in the habit of doing lately. It ceased at times,
but only to commence again with increased vigour. This
continued for something more than half an hour, when I felt
the outside of my arms, from the elbows down, getting un¬
usually warm, with the feeling as if a strong current of elec¬
tricity was passing down each. By-and-bye a heat began on
the head—on the upper portion, at the back, say, of the crown.
Thence it seemed to spread, as if from different points, and
in their itching currents, over the whole upper portion of
the head. In a little time, a body of heat, occupying the
whole breadth of the head, followed in the wake of those
currents ; and, as it came near the front of the head, the
latter began to oscillate, not from side to side, as before, but
from back to front, exactly as a table does under the hands of
a medium. Presently one eye and then the other, and, finally,
the whole forehead became permeated by, or possessed of, the
strange influence. What followed immediately thereon, was
to me more extraordinary than all. A table, in its wildest
oscillations, hardly ever exceeded that of my head from back
to front, the arms and lower limbs all joining in the wild and
extraordinary movement. There was, however, no inclination
for sleep—quite the reverse, indeed. The oscillation from
side to side was eager to commence again after the above.
To complete the thing, should I have allowed it ? I was quite
conscious through all, and called upon a member of my family,
who suggested that perhaps I was wanted to write. As soon as
the words were uttered, my right hand exhibited a convulsive
movement. I called for pencil and paper, over which my
hand, with the pencil therein, was hurried like lightning, but
produced nothing legible. I then tried to write my own name,
but no—I canid only manage the first letter till my hand was
borne over the paper as before. Some half-hour has elapsed
since, and the influence has not yet entirely left my hand.
It requires all my power to control or command the limb, so
as to write this note sufficiently clear to admit of its being
read. Perhaps some of your readers who are advanced
mediums would kindly say what they think of this in a medium
of some ten days’ development. Any time, I may add, when
I put the pencil in my hand, on paper, with a will to receive
a communication, the hand is borne rapidly along, but nothing
satisfactory has, so far, been the result—that is, as regards
legibly-written words. Odd letters, indeed, do occur among
the scribblings. I may add that as soon as the manifestations
above described had taken place, I arose from my chair
without having experienced anything more extraordinary than
what has been stated. I saw nothing, I heard nothing, more
than usual; but I felt an amount of physical vigour such as
I have not known for many years. What means it all ?
Spirit of the Lagan.
The circulation of The Spiritualist is steadily on the
increase.
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor, physical mediums, have
removed this week from Keppel-street to 26, Montague-street,
Russell-square, London, W.O.
The publication of the report of our special correspondent,
relating to Spiritualism in Belfast, is making Spiritualists in
the north of Ireland acquainted with each other, who formerly
were prosecuting their researches independently.
Spiritualism in Newcastle.—There is great excite¬
ment among the Spiritualists at Newcastle. They have been
getting wonderful manifestations of late and forcing them too
much on public attention, the necessary result being that per¬
sons totally ignorant of spiritual phenomena and of conditions
at seances, pressed »to see what was to be seen, and some of
them of course played tricks. Inquirers should be made to
begin at the beginning, and to work their way up as they gain
experience, without introducing them right off to any of the
more advanced circles. All these conditions and troubles of
circles ^and of mediums have been thoroughly considered in
articles published in back numbers of The Spiritualist. A
man named Auckland recently went to a dark seance in New¬
castle, and suddenly turned a lighted lantern upon two
mediums, one of whom was in trance state, and was made
very ill for days from the sudden application of light while in
that sensitive state. He brought a charge of assault against
Mr. Blake and Mr. Pickup, but the magistrates dismissed the
case. Some non-members of the Newcastle society swore
they saw a red-haired man on the ground with a banjo; another
deposed that there was no man there ; other of the statements
were equally contradictory.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
B. H., Marienbad.—We wrote you a long letter from Teignmouth
some weeks ago, answering questions since put by Mr. G-.
106
THE SPIRITUALIST.
TO WINNIE.
A gentleman having seen the face of one he dearly loved, who had
left earth-life, wrote the following at the conclusion of the Seance:—
Cold was the night and darksome,
Lone was my heart and sad,
Faded was all earth’s splendour,
flow could my soul be glad ?
Hope had drooped low her pinions,
Faith as by doubt oppressed,
Whispered “ Where is the promise,
Is there a land of rest?”
Then Wirmie came in the darkness,
Came not in pomp nor state,
Through her short life of sorrow,
She had learned to love and wait.
Patient, queenly, and tender,
Oh! the love of those eyes 1
As they looked at me through the darkness,
I was safe in Paradise.
I will no longer murmur,
Justice may smite with her sword,
Hope may droop low her pinions,
And faith go overboard.
Winnie looks love from Heaven,—
Steadfastly to the fight,
I can keep my soul through the shadows,
For I know that I walk toward light.
F. L.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
Sib,—Being absent from London, your issue of the 14th
inst. has only just reached me. In it I notice letters from
Mr. G. B. Tapp, and Mr. W. H. Harrison, addressed to the
Dalston Association, the former opposing, and the latter advo¬
cating the affiliation of that society with the British National
Association of Spiritualists. I am a member of the National
Association, and shall be glad to do all I can to further its
legitimate objects. I have also for some years been intimately
connected with the oldest London local association, and there¬
fore closely watch the progress of other similar societies, and
give my best attention to everything which tends to increase
their usefulness or promote their welfare.
At the last annual meeting of the St. John’s (Clerkenwell)
Association, I brought this question of affiliation before our
members, but no discussion took place on the subject. It was
found that a large number of members were ignorant of the
existence of a National Association, and probably there were
not six persons present who had read its “ Declaration of
Principles and Purposes.” It was therefore impossible to take
a vote on the question, and a resolution was passed to the
effect that no step should then be taken in the matter, but
that the secretary should obtain full information respecting
the National Association, and place the same before the
members at some future time. Had it been possible to have
discussed the question, I should have spoken strongly against
affiliation. Mr. Tapp, as you pointed out, was in error in
describing our action.
I shall be glad if you will kindly give me space to briefly
state some of my objections on this subject. As a member of
the National Association, I object to its extending certain
advantages (should it be in a position to do so) to only such
local societies as will “ affiliate ” themselves to it. If it be
truly national, and can off^r counsel, guidance, information,
or working facilities to local societies, it should do so to all
these societies, and not only to such as may give a certain
construction to the rule of the National Association inviting
affiliation. Should it be in a position to make money grants
to local associative efforts, it would be extremely unfair, and
quite the reverse of the conduct which a National Association
should pursue, to give assistance only to affiliated or adopted
societies. Such a method of working would at once proclaim
the Association a sect. I submit that its funds should be
expended as should best further the cause of Spiritualism, and
that if it be thought well to assist local societies, it should seek
out those who are most in need of funds, or can use the same
to the best purpose.* No such consideration as whether any
* When the National Association says to a local society, “ Will you work
in friendly alliance with us ?—we ask for no control or influence of the
slightest kind whatever over your society, but offer you some power over
ours in the Shape of a vote at our Council meetings, will you accept this
Aug. 28, 1874.
particular local association has officially allied itself with the
National Association should arise, and here I may state my
pleasure that, apart from such consideration, a grant has been
made to the friends at Sowerby Bridge. The rules of the
National Association, and copies of every paper printed by it,
and also all its reports, should be sent to each one of the local
societies; and, on the other hand, the National Association
should periodically ask for information as to the progress
and work done by these societies. They should be invited to
work in conjunction with the National and Central Associa¬
tion, but I think that no such rule or expression should exist
on the code of this Association as the unfortunate one the
Council have thought fit to draw up with respect to the
“ affiliation ” of local societies. The very word is offensive
to me as a member of a local association.* Why, for instance,
should the St. John’s Association “affiliate” itself to the
National Association, and thus, in the opinion of many of its
members, and certainly to every outsider on first reading such
a statement, fling away its own birthright and independence,
and proclaim itself merely the adopted child under the guar¬
dianship and in the leading strings of another association ?
The fact that only one local association has entered into such
an alliance shows that the proposition is a distasteful and
humiliating one. Surely the National Association cannot
wish to. display a long list of “ affiliated societies ” as an ad¬
vertisement—for mere effect. I believe the National Asso¬
ciation is destined to do great good, and I have rejoiced at its
formation ; but I think it a mistake to circumscribe its use¬
fulness by any such rule as that now under consideration. On
the other hand, it should give a voice in the management of
its affairs to every local association. Each local society pro¬
perly constituted, with a code of rules and duly elected
officers, should have the right, without any restriction what¬
ever, to have its secretary or president on the Council of the
National Association—save only, perhaps, that as they have a
voice in its management so also they should share its working
expenses and contribute annually the amount of an ordinary
member’s subscription. There should be no such question as
affiliation, but either association would have the privilege of
stating that it was working in conjunction with the other,
with mutual goodwill and friendship.! Immediately the sub¬
scription fee (a mere nominal sum) is paid, the local associa¬
tion should be entered on the register of the National Asso¬
ciation, and the name of one of its principal officers on the
Council. Thus, working in conjunction with a truly national
and central organisation would be so arranged as to be con¬
sidered an honour to the local association, whereas the term
“ affiliation ” sounds something like a disgrace.
Tywardreth, Cornwall, Aug. 18,1874. B. Peabce.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sib,—On the evening of Saturday, the 8th of this month,
in company with my brother and his wife, I went to 36,
Keppel-street, BusseU-square, London, for the purpose of
attending the seance of Messrs. Bastian and Taylor.
I had been introduced to those gentlemen at the soiree on
the Tuesday evening previous, heard the testimonial in their
favour from America read by Mr. Joy, had listened to the ob¬
servations of Mr. Taylor, embodying portions of their experi¬
ence as mediums offered in connection with matters discussed
at the Conference, and was favourably impressed.
Before going to the seance Mr. John Lamont, of Liverpool,
gave me the particulars of a most disgraceful scene which
occurred at 36, Keppel-street, on the Thursday evening
offer? ” if the local society then replies “No,” that reply appears to us to
be an official decision in favour of dissension instead of harmony in
Spiritualism, and gives, at all events, prima facie evidence that the local
society is not working in the best interests of Spiritualism, however much
it may intend to do so, and by its vote against friendly united action,
declares itself not to be entitled to public support. It seems to us, that the
refusal to send a representative to vote on public questions would tend to
make the National Association a sect. The National Association says, “ We
want your opinions and your votes, and do not want cliques.” Mr. Pearce’s
reply is, “ We will not vote or express an opinion, and your asking us to do
so shows you want to make a sect or clique of the National Association.”
—Ed.
* The word “affiliation” is objectionable as implying superiority, so is
unwisely selected; it will probably be changed to “allied” or something
of that sort. Still, the argument is about realities, not about words, and
Mr. Pearce’s logic is involved, because he does not clearly distinguish in
his letter between words and things. As Professor Max Miiiler has pointed
out, similar confusion of ideas about the real meaning of words has even
caused war and bloodshed among unthinking peoples.—Ed.
f This particular sentence describes exactly what the National Associa¬
tion means by “affiliation,” which proves, as already stated, that Mr.
Pearce’s difficulties are caused by his not clearly separating the realities of
the case from mere words. The facts of the case alone ought to influence
decisions of local societies.—Ed.
Aug. 28, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
107
previous. The account certainly did not prejudice me against
the mediums, but it had the effect of making me more
severely observant than I might otherwise have been.
We numbered ten sitters, exclusive of the mediums. The
room in which we assembled I took to be about 18 by 15 feet.
Through a door in this room a smaller room was entered, into
which I went, and as every nook and crevice in both rooms
was open to inspection, I am prepared to say that the only
human beings in both rooms were those mentioned above.
Having secured both doors, so as to render entrance without
detection impossible, we seated ourselves in circle on chairs,
Mr. Bastian occupying a chair in the centre of the circle.
A guitar, a musical box, and a tin tube were placed on the
floor. I grasped Mr. Taylor’s right wrist with my left hand.
This arrangement obtained all round the circle, so that we
each securely held the other, and left the palm of the right
hand free to be tapped, shaken, or handled by the spirits as
to them seemed best.
The light was then extinguished, when Mr. Bastian imme¬
diately commenced to clap his hands, and so continued to do
during the whole time of darkness.
During the singing of a melody which immediately followed,
the musical box was wound up and began to play, the guitar was
taken from the floor and placed across the knees of two of the
sitters, and while resting there notes of great strength and
sweetness were drawn from it.
The melody finished, conversation connected with our
spiritual experience became general; this, however, soon gave
place to matters of greater interest.
Hands were busy in different parts of the circle at the same
moment, one sitter being gently patted on the head, another on
the arm or knee, while another had the fingers of a spirit laid
on the palm of his right hand. Addressing Mr. F. ,
Mr. Taylor said, “ I see a male spirit standing beside you, sir,
his name is ; he is touching you now.” Mr. F. said
a soft hand had been laid on his ha^id and face, and further
declared that the name and description given answered exactly
to those of a dear friend Of his who passed into the higher life
a short time ago.
The gentleman who sat at my right hand, and who up to
that time had not witnessed much of spiritual phenomena,
betrayed considerable emotion, saying he felt hands gently
patting him on different parts of his person. Mr. Taylor at
once described the spirit who stood beside him, giving also the
name; both name and description, the gentleman affirmed,
corresponded exactly to those of a dear friend from whom he
had been separated by death.
The voice of “ George,” one of Messrs. Bastian and
Taylor’s attendant spirits, was now heard. Beplying to Mr.
Taylor, he said the conditions were very good. Being asked
if he could take the musical box (a heavy one) from the
ground, and carry it round the circle above the heads of the
sitters, he replied he would “try and do so in a little time.”
Addressing me, Mr. Taylor said, “ I see an old lady standing
beside you, she appears to be about 70 or 75 years of age, and
she wears a cap; her name is Margaret; she is touching you
now.” As he spoke I felt a hand, soft and moderately warm,
laid on my head. “ She has passed over to the gentleman
opposite to you,” said Mr. Taylor, meaning my brother, but
of whose relationship to me Mr. Taylor was at that time
ignorant.
My brother was also patted on the head and face; in addi¬
tion to which the spirit, addressing him, said, “ God bless
you, my dear George: ” then returning to me in the most
demonstrative manner, the hand of the spirit was passed
rapidly over my head and face, and this for more than a
minute; then addressing me in a voice not at all unlike one
I loved to hear in years passed away, the spirit said, “ God
bless you, my dear son, I am ever near you. I have often
manifested to you before.”
That these were the voice and hand of my dear departed
mother I have no doubt. The name and description of her
given by a gentleman who not only did not know at what age
she died, but who did not know whether she was still on
earth or had passed to spirit-life, were strictly correct; in
addition to which, the recognition of her two sons, and calling
one of them by name, when neither of the mediums knew
either my brother’s name, or that any relationship existed
between us, points unmistakeably to the same conclusion.
The gas was now turned on for two or three minutes, when
we found everything precisely as when the seance commenced.
On the light being again extinguished, the spirit George
requested that a gentleman sitting at an angle with Mr.
Bastian would place his feet on Mr. Bastian’s knees. The
object of this arrangement was soon apparent, While Mr.
Bastian was clapping his hands, and the sitters holding each
other by the right wrist, the musical-box was raised from the
floor and carried round the circle above the heads of the
sitters, playing all the while.
We all thanked George for his excellent performance, when
he immediately supplemented it by another on the guitar,
which he had placed across my knee and that of my right
hand neighbour.
Now came a very nice test manifestation, sharp crisp sounds,
as if a sheet of paper was shaken about our heads were
heard, followed by the exclamation, “ It is she,” from the
gentleman who sat next but one to me. Mr. Taylor had
informed him that a female spirit apparently about 16 or 17
years of age stood beside him; when on the instant a spirit
hand took from underneath the breast of his coat, which was
buttoned up, the sheet of paper in question, which having
shaken about, she placed in his hand.
The gentleman explained that the paper was a drawing
executed by a yound friend of his, whose name Mr. Taylor had
correctly given, and who passed into the other life at the age
of 16 years. He had brought the drawing to the seance,
mentally desiring that if she were present, she would, in
token of her identity, recognise and handle the drawing,
which she satisfactorily accomplished.
I now felt a slight movement of Mr. Taylor’s right hand,
“ They have taken my ring,” said he ; almost before the words
were uttered, my brother’s wife said, ‘ ‘ A ring has been placed
on one of my fingers.” It proved to be the one taken from
Mr. Taylor.
Not only is one astonished at the rapidity, but also and
that in larger measure at the precision with which this was
done. If a gentleman wishes to place a ring on the finger of
a lady, not only does he require light for the purpose, but also
that the hand of the lady be held in a proper position for the
passage of the ornament.
But here in the dark, without the slightest touch being felt,
either on the hand or any other part of the person, with
marvellous rapidity, and unerring aim, the ring is carried to
the desired place. My sister-in-law declared the only touch
she felt was that of soft fingers pushing the ring on to hers.
Addressing me again, Mr. Taylor said: “ I see a male spirit
standing beside you; his name is James.” Guessing who it
was, I said: “ James, I am delighted to meet you here, but I
did not expect to do so.” “ That, dear brother, makes no
difference,” answered the spirit, quite audibly. Then gently,
but very quickly, he inserted his fingers beneath the collar of
my coat, and removed my eye-glass, which is suspended round
my neck by a thin black cord. In removing it, the cord
caught behind my left ear. Without being touched in any
other part, I felt the spirit’s fingers directly behind the ear
liberating the cord, which he then carried off. On the instant
I said to my brother, “ James has taken my eye-glass.” My
brother replied: “ He has placed it in my hand.” To say the
least, this to me was very remarkable, as, in addition to the
manner in which the work was done, it must be added, my
coat on that occasion was so worn the mediums could not
have known I had an eye-glass suspended from my neck.
I could continue in the same strain, for I have not by any
means described all that occurred, but I feel sure I have said
enough to prove that those who are in quest of genuine and
high class spiritual phenomena cannot do better than spend
an hour with Messrs. Bastian and Taylor.
The editor of the Graphic, in his issue of August 8th, says:
“ Spiritualism is spreading rapidly amongst us.” I am glad
he has “ struck ile,” and can only hope he will trim his lamp
with it. However, the editor of the Graphic is right. Spirit¬
ualism is spreading, and must continue to do so, and that
more rapidly still, if inquirers will only embrace the oppor¬
tunity when lit presents itself of attending such nseances as
those given by Bastian and Taylor, at S6, Keppel-street,
Bussell-square. W. P. Adshead.
Belper, August 18,1874.'
EXPLANATIONS.
Sib,—Under the head of “ Answers to Correspondents,” in
your issue of August 7th, the following note appears:—
“ J.—If Mr. Kilburn is one of his greatest creditors he ought
to say so when he urges the public to keep the other person well
supplied with money."
I believe I am correct in assuming that I am the Mr. Kil¬
burn alluded to, and that the scarcely veiled statement alludes
to my being a large creditor of Mr. J. Burns, the proprietor of
the Spiritual Institution, 15, Southampton-row, London.
108
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 28, 1874.
I therefore take the opportunity of saying that the state¬
ment is entirely false. I am not a large creditor of'Mr. Burns,
nor have I any money claim against him whatever.
It may or it may not be that I have spent money in the
cause of Spiritualism—that, certainly, is my own affair—nor
do I see why, therefore, I should be insulted by those who
have come in “ at the eleventh hour.”
Surely it is but reasonable to expect of one who has under¬
taken the sacred duty of an editor and leader of opinion in
the ranks of Spiritualists, that he wpuld have so far subdued
the flesh as to be incapable of slandering an unoffending
^stranger by covertly imputing to him motives of the basest
and most carnal description. Yet, in the above-quoted para¬
graph, under the cowardly refuge of an “ if,” it is imputed
against me that I—a large creditor of Mr. Burns—did indite
an appeal to the Spiritualists of this country, begging them,
for the love of truth and progress, to aid in sustaining his
work, while, all the time, my real motive was to save my own
cash from annihilation.
This imputation-in-ambush is both baseless and malignant;
and no one, I am sure, will envy the writer the possession of
motives sinister enough to render its evolution possible.
Bishop Auckland, Aug. 15th. N. Kilburn, Jun.
[Floating statements have been current of the two being connected by
business transactions. "We are pleased to have been the means of throwing
daylight upon the matter, and to publish the above statement, that any
such rumours have not, and never did have, any foundation. Had the
facts been the other way, it was only right and just that the public should
know the same, under the circumstances; and it was in their interest, and
not with any desire to annoy Mr. Kilburn—a stranger to us—the question
was raised. It does not follow that, if one person is connected with
another in business transactions, he will necessarily publish biassed opi¬
nions about that other.—Ed.]
A SEANCE WITH MESSES. BASTIAN AND TAYLOB.
“ Truth can never be confirmed enough,
Though doubts did ever sleep.”
Sir,—It is generally conceded that our transatlantic brethren
stand pre-eminent in all matters pertaining to Spiritualism,
but I question whether two mediums of greater scope and
power than Messrs. Bastian and Taylor have done us the
honour of a visit, of course excepting Mr. D. D. Home. It
was, therefore, with considerable pleasure that I accepted an
invitation to a seance at their rooms, 36, Keppel-street, Bussell-
square, on Monday evening last. I may premise that I.found
both these gentlemen kind and courteous in the extreme, and
strikingly different in manner and bearing to some so-called
“ American mediums.” The special phase of Mr. Bastian’s
mediumship appears to be physical—that of Mr. Taylor’s,
clairvoyant, and each carrying out his own speciality, the
seance became one pregnant with interest of no ordinary
character. There were present four ladies and nine gentle¬
men, sufficient to form a small but compact circle. The doors
were securely locked, and the keys retained by myself. Win¬
dow curtains, and every imaginary place of concealment care¬
fully searched by one of the sitters. A guitar, musical box,
and speaking trumpet were placed on the floor. Mr. Bastian
than sat within the circle, and Mr. Taylor between two of the
visitors, the gas was then turned off, and to harmonise the
circle an American piece was sung, but before the conclusion
of the singing the guitar began to play an accompaniment,
and afterwards to do a trifle on its own account, in such a
strain as to elicit the hearty approbation of every one present,
and a strong desire being expressed for a little more, a con¬
tinuance of the melody ensued, recalling Glendower’s words:—
“ Those musioans that shall play to you
Hang in the air a thousand leagues from hence,
Yet straight they shall be here; sit and attend.’’
The melodious strains swept loud and clear over the heads
of the sitters, and finally culminated in a grand imitation of a
peal of church bells ; the instrument was then deposited in the
lap of one of my sisters. I can safely aver that I never have
heard the guitar handled in such a masterly manner. During
the whole of this time Mr. Bastian was clapping his hands,
and occasionally talking with different members of the circle,
and Mr. Taylor, whom I tightly held by the hand, described
the various spirit forms surrounding the various sitters in
such a clear and lucid manner that exclamations of surprise
and astonishment were heard at the faithful and accurate
description of departed relatives and friends. This clairvoyant
faculty, I may mention, is exercised by Mr. Taylor in his
normal state.
George Fox, May, Ambo, and Harry, were the spirits in
charge of the circle. Bings, ear-rings, flowers, &c., were taken
from one part of the circle to another. Spirit hands and
voices, during the whole of the sitting, were felt and heard;
the marks of affection on the part of George and May to par¬
ticular members of the circle was exceedingly gratifying. I had
almost omitted to state that one of the gentlemen composing
the circle placed his legs across Mr. Bastian in such a way as
to preclude the slightest movement on the part of the medium
without detection. A pocket handkerchief, borrowed from a
lady by Ambo was found, at the conclusion of the sitting, up
the trowsers leg of one of the circle, to the no small astonish¬
ment of the recipient, and the amusement of the friends
assembled.
It having been intimated that sufficient power remained for
a light seance, the gas was relighted and chairs rearranged.
Not having a cabinet, Mr. Basjfcian was fain to press into requi¬
sition a table-cover, and with this a slight screen was made in
one corner of the room. Behind this screen sat the medium,
with his hands tightly held by a lady, but in such a position
that the upper portion of their bodies were distinctly visible to
the circle. This cover being pinned, and the gaslight increased,
the guitar and musical box began to play, and ihere could be
distinctly seen spirit hands flitting between the head of the medium
and his fair companion, sometimes on one side, and sometimes
on the other. One of the hands was small, white, and delicate,
such as would belong to a girl of seven or eight years of age—
another, apparently the hand of a female, was rather of a cop¬
per-coloured hue, and others, of the masculine type, large and
bony, and as dusky as Othello’s skin. The speaking-tube was
dropped over the edge of the screen in such a manner, that the
hand grasping the tube could be seen by every one present for
two or three seconds—in fact, for that period it was stationary.
I need hardly say that this last manifestation gave the greatest
possible satisfaction to every one present.
To all who desire to witness the mediumship of these
gentlemen I would say, “ Stay not upon the order of your
going, but go at once,” as I believe they shortly return to
Chicago. Investigator.
Camberwell, 18th August, 1874.
ALLEGED CITEIOTJS PSYCHOLOGICAL FACT.
Sir,—The Troy (N. Y.) Times of July 28th, 1874, relates
the following curious incident:—
“ A lad named Cummings fell from a car at Whitehall, and
the train passed over his arm, severing it. The lad with great
presence of mind, lay still until the train had passed, and thus
escaped further injury. When the lad was taken home his
arm was brought after him. It was thrown into a pail, when
the poor little fellow screamed with pain. The severed limb was
then placed in a box and buried in the garden. Shortly
after he said that something was crawling on the inside of the
hand. The limb was exhumed, when a large worm was dis¬
covered on the palm of the hand. A large jar was then ob¬
tained, and it became necessary to crowd the arm in, when the
sufferer fairly went into paroxysms of pain. The limb was
placed in a jar filled with alcohol, and then replaced in the
ground. The little fellow complained that his arm and fingers
were in a terribly cramped position, and that the little finger and
the next one were growing together. The jar was then taken
up, when the limb was found crowded and cramped as de¬
scribed. The boy knew nothing of the disposition of the arm.”
The question is asked, How will Spiritualism regard facts like
these ? They are easily soluble under the theory of a spiritual
body, to which nearly all Spiritualists are now inclined. The
mutilated boy was evidently clairvoyant. He naturally felt
an interest in the severed arm; an interest, active, however,
only in his interior consciousness. Seeing the state of that
severed member, his spiritual arm was sympathetically affected.
In Serjeant Gox’s interesting book, “ What am I ? ” many in¬
teresting facts will be found, showing how persons, deprived
of a limb, have been affected in the corresponding spiritual
member. As illustrative of the fact of a spiritual organism,
corresponding to the material, the case of the lad in Troy is
worth remembering. E. S.
Boston, U. S. A., August, 3rd, 1874.
NSCRUTABLE are the laws that govern the incidence of
some of the greatest calamities.—A RAILWAY ACCIDENT is, to
any particular person a (theoretically) remote contingency, but it may
happen, as a matter of fact, the very next journey undertaken. The risk,
in a pecuniary sense, may now be covered FOR LIFE by a single small
payment.—Apply for prospectus of the
EAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSUEANCE COMPANY
Limited,
to
THE MANAGER, 42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.O.
OR TO >
MR. THOMAS ELY TON, AGENT, 12, HIGH-STREET, BOW,
LONDON, E.
Aug. 28, 1874,
THE SPIKITUALIST.
in
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.l)., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.O,
Bamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Boss-Church, Mrs. (Florence Marryat), 21, Golville-road, Kensingston-
park, W.
Smith, Martin B, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate.
Brown. James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Bed-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Eev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44, Netherwood-rOad, West Kensington-
park, W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Bichard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, . York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Bobert, 5, South-street, Finsbury, E.C.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphries, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road. Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., care of T. Everitt, Holders-bill, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Olub, S.W.
Pearce, O. W., F.S.S, 14, Burnley-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Bogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road,'01dKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederika, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood,
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, B. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. F. D|awe, Esq., Portman-chambers. Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein. Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Bussie, Nieder Walluf on the Bhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Eobert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Biko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Bev. J. Tyerman, Editor of' the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Bue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Bailway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Bussell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Bue de Borne, Paris.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsic.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the OREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIEVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover square, two doors from Begent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS', Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seanges
attended at the houses, of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMEKIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Bussell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMEBISM AND CLAIBVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDLER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Gampden-hill, Kensington.
R. W. Gr. SCORE Y, Medical Mesmekist and
Bobber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bushl
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
EUBBEB. AND MEDICAL CLAIBVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica¬
tion by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Begister tour Letters.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
tO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Begister your letters.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDBESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
VISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table dCHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
WANTED, for a Lady Spiritualist, the services of a
YOUTH, under 16, or a very YOUNG GIBL, as Private Secre¬
tary. A good Grammarian indispensable, and one who can also write
French preferred. Address, Hope, care of Mrs. Garraway, 23, Thurloe-
square, S.W.
In handsome Cloth, price 2s. 6d. post free.
Psychopathy or, the true healing art.
By JOSEPH ASHMAN,
Principal of the Psychopathic Institution, 254, Marylebone-ioad, London,
N.W.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—Introduction.
Dissatisfaction with Ordinary Systems of Medicine—The Nature of
Disease—One primal Principle of Cure—Weakness and Strength—Man
like qn Engine—What is Vital Force ?—Health, Breath, the Blood—The
Vital Principle beyond these.
. Chapter II.—The Vital Principle.
The Stomach—Man a Plant—The Internal Sun—Man a Microcosm-
Caloric—Arterial Combustion—Temperature of the Body—The Nervous
System a Source of Heat—Nerve Force—Difference between the Gan¬
glionic and the Cerebral and Cerebro-Spinal Nerves — Office of the
Ganglia and the Cerebellum—Nature of the Vis Nervosa—The Soul
Force.
Chapter III.—On the Nature and Cure op Disease.
The Perfect Magnet—The Healthy Organism—The Source of Vital
Force—How produced—The Vital Force and Nerve-aura may be Com¬
municated—The Influence of the Old on the Young—The Hand a Psychial
Instrument—The Philosophy of Hand-Shaking.
Chapter' IV.—Healing.
Two Vital Fluids—Their Signs—The Vital Magnetic Fluid: Mode of
Applying it—The Power of the Hand over the Temperature of the Body—
The Nerves the Medium of Influence—Process without Contact—
Healing at a Distance: Marvellous Cures—The Impartation of the Aura
to Water, &c.—^Necessity of Passivity and Benevolence—Concluding
Bemarks.
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume,‘Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
WBITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—j. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 28, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
SPiRiTtrAMSM deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J.S.Bergheim.
Esq., O.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.E.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
EHllier, Esq.; Mrs. VJ. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“ George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq.,' Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace,Esq., F.E.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ i. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  ,
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters.' One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
• 1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, .but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
- 4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the dower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen question^ should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and"
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations aro bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms Of
mediumship than tuts or raps may make their appearance.
AN APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS AND FRIENDS.
HE Spiritualists of Sowerby Bridge have, up to the
present time, held their meetings in a cottage at Causeway Head.
This has now been found inadequate,-and in order to carry out more pro¬
gressive principles, a new Lyceum has been built to seat about 300 persons in
Hollin’s-lane Sowerby-bridge, along* with eight dwellings which are
intended to endow the Lyceum at some future time, when they can be
freed from Mortgage. The Building when complete, will cost above £1,500
of which £1,000 has been obtained on mortgage at the rate of 5 per cent,
per annum, which leaves a debt of over £400. An Appeal to the friends
of Spiritualism is proposed. It is desired that 300- friends will kindly give
£1 each; the remainder will probably be raised at hdme. Mrs. Cora L.
V. Tappan has kindly consented to open the New Hall, and she heads the
list with a donation of £5. Several friends in the out-district have already
promised £1 each. The Bradford friends are arranging for a benefit of
two Orations to be given by Mr. J. J. Morse, of London, some time in the
month of August.
This is earnestly put before the friends of the movement, as it is impossi¬
ble to borrow money on a School, or Lyceum, owing to the actions of the
School Board. And as this is the first building in the kingdom of Great
Britain, belonging solely to Spiritualism, and as the money will shortly be
due to the various contractors, it is hoped that those who can do something
for the cause will do so. The projectors are all working men, and this is
one of the boldest attempts to carry out the true religion or science of
Spiritualism. It is intended to open the new Lyceum on Sunday,
August 2nd, 1874.
To those who are not in a position to give the amount, smaller sums may
be sent, and to those who cannot give money, tracts, books, spiritual
periodicals, and back numbers of the London Spiritual papers will be thank¬
fully received. As a library is connected with the Institution, those who
can help with books will do good in many ways. The friends are thankful
for the support and encouragement that have already been given, and
kindly solicit further favour and support.
Donations for this great object can be forwarded to the Secretary,
Henry Lord, Union street. Beech,
July 14th. Sowerby-bridge, Yorkshire.
List already promised.
£ s. d.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan 5 0 0
Twelve other friends £1 each ... ... 12 0 0
A Friend at Oldham ... ... ..." ... 1 0 0
A Ditto at Manchester ...   10 0
H. J. L.   20 0 0
National Association of Spiritualists, London 5 0 0
John Lamont, Liverpool  110
E. Broadbent  ... 10 0
J. G....      2 0 0
Three Friends   ... ... 1 12 6
J. Milner   •  ... 1 0 0
J. O. and J. S  7 6
Wm. Jackson ...  2 0 0
E. Holt  ... 10 0
Benjamin Swaine, 3rd Donation ... ... 1 0 0
A Bath Friend... ... ... ~   10 0
Two Spiritualists ... ... ;  4 6
Proceeds from Mr. Tappan’s Oration ... 5 10 0
£61 5 6
A parcel of 8 Books and Tracts from James Baistrick, Leeds.
Mr. James Bums has kindly given his services on Sunday, August 9th,
1874, for the benefit of the new Lyceum.
P.S.—The amounts and other gifts will be acknowledged in the London
Spiritualist periodicals. 
REWARD.—MASKELYNE & COOKE.
AN EXPOSE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGEBNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (IOTA).
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane.
Price One Penny.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PBOFESSOB ADOLPHE DIDIEB.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Camp den-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAY;
NEWS-AGENT, BOOK^ELLEB, AND STATIONEB,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modem magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. * To behadof W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street, Melbourne
and all Australian BookseUers.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Full wood’s Bents, High Holbom, in the Parish of Sf.Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London E.C.
