Registered as a Newspaper.
No 411.—(Voi,. XVII.—No. $.) LONDON 4 FRIDAY, JULY 9, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces. '
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EAELE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May he obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
Demy 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges. Price 12s. 6d. Post Free. Will be ready in a few days.
ILLUSTRATED BY VARIOUS FULL PAGE AND DOUBLE PAGE ENGRAVINGS.
TRANSCENDENTAL PHYSICS.
AN ACCOUNT OF EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS FROM THE SCIENTIFIC TREATISES OF
JOHANN GAEL FBIEDBICH ZOLLNEB,
Professor of Physical Astronomy at the University of Leipsic ; Member of the Royal Saxon Society of Sciences ; Foreign Member of the
Royal Astronomical Society of London; of the Imperial Academy of Natural Philosophers at Moscow; and Honorary Member of the
Physical Association at Frankfort-on-the-Main. •
TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN, WITH A PREFACE AND APPENDICES, BY
CHABLES CABLETON MASSEY, (of Lincoln’s inn, Barrister-at-Law.)
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33. Museum Street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red edges.
A NEW BOOK IN CONNECTION WITH SPIBITUALISM,
PSYCHIC FACTS,
Contains striking selections from the writings of Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Mr. C. F. Varley, F.R.S., Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S., The Committee of the Dialectical Society, Professor Hare, of Philadelphia, Professor Z6llner, Mr. Serjeant Cox,
Captain R. F. Burton, and others, demonstrating the reality of the phenomena of Spiritualism. The w®rk will also contain some useful
information for inquirers.
The Spiritualist Branch Office, 33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the berefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited witn naving written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher’s Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 9, 1880,
ALLAN KAKDEC’S WORKS.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From tlie Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tettbner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTIT Y.
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, CORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Stein-way Hall, Lo-wer Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALT BY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W-
STEINWAY HALL,
Lower Seymour Street, Portman Square.
A COMPLIMENTARY SOIREE
Will be held at the above Hall, on
TUESDAY EVENING, JULY 21 th.
It is proposed that a Farewell Testimonial should be presented to Me. and Mbs.
J. W. FLETCHER, expressing the appreciation of the great body of Spiritualists of the
noble work done by them during their stay in England, and warm wishes for their
speedy return.
Sofa Stalls, 5s. Stalls, 2s. 6d. Unreserved Seats, Is.
Tickets may be obtained of Mbs. Fitz-Geeald, 19, Cambridge Street, Hyde Park, W.;
of Mbs. Maltby, 27, Great Coram Street, Russell Square; and at the Hall.
S PIRITU AL ISM:—TRANCE DISCOURSE.
MRS. CORA L. V. RICHMOND
(Formerly Mrs. Tappan)
Will deliver a discourse under the control of her spirit guides in
ST. JAMES’S HALL
(Entrance in Regent Street)
FRIDAY EVENING, JULY 16th, AT 8 O’CLOCK.
Subject BODY AND SPIRIT.
To close with an improvised poem. Tickets 2s., Is., and 6d. may be obtained by letter of
Mrs. Strawbridge, 4, Dorset Square, N.W., or at the Hall on the evening.
Price 5s. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth. Red edges. The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY; OR DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING
Illustrated with diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEPORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
HEALING BY LAYING ON OF HANDS
DR. JAMES MACK,
37, UPPER BAKER STREET, REGENT’S
PARK. At Home from 10 till 5.
D. YOUNGER,
Mesmerist, Mesmeric Healer, Medical Rubber,
gives private instructions. Mesmeric Seances and
Electro-biological Entertainments at Home or by
appointment. Can also supply Mesmeric Sensitives
for Private Experiments, At Home daily from 2 till 10.
23, Ledbury-road, Bayswater, W.
MARYLEBONE PROGRESSIVE
INSTITUTE AND SPIRITUAL EVIDENCE
SOCIETY, Quebec Hall, 25, Great Quebec Street,
Marylebone Road, London, near Baker Street Station.
The Society will celebrate its first New Year of
freedom from debt on Thursday and Friday, July 1st,
and 2nd.
On July 1st, 1879, by the kind aid of several ladies
it cleared off all material responsibilities, and by
economy still remains in, that position. The cele.
bration will comprise the display of baskets of flowers,
with some curiosities, which will be for sale at very
moderate prices.
Mr. J. M. Dale desires respectfully to state that the
articles were unsold last year and are his own property,
and that the sale of them is the only remuneration he
has or will accept for his labours in the cause or for
the above Society.
Doors open at 2 p.m. on Thursday and 3 p. m. on
Friday. Admission Free. Light refreshments at
moderate charges.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
1\/rRS. WOODFORDE Any- form
J-tJ_ Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from 1
to 5 p.m., 4, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.O.
pHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone road, Earls-court, S. W.
Hell opened to Chris¬
tians.—This is one of the most objectionable
orthodox books ever published, and contains pictures
of the infernal regions calculated to strike terror into
the hearts of children and people with weak nerves.
Cloth, eight illustrations. Post free sevenpence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch office, 33, Museum
Street, London, W.C.
A LLEGOR1CAL SKETCHES,
X\_ FOUNDED ON SPIRITUAL TRUTHS.
1. The Inward Light. 2. A Lost Love Found. 3. The
Two Voices. 4. The Invisible Teacher. Price Is. 6d.
Victoria Steam Press, 117, Praed Street, London, W.
riHINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
\A WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Earthenware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
. '50, Orawford-Street, Bryanston-square, London.
J[ ttf xtf mb xif
No. 41L—YOLUME SEVENTEEN; NUMBEE TWO.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 9 th, 18 8 0.
f THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and G-entlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Ni¬
cholas op Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
op Caithness
The Baroness Von Vay, Coun¬
tess Wurmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakop,
St. Petersburg
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.Gr.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Calder, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Maxdougall Gregory
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne)
Captain John James
5. C, Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
F. Podmore, Esq., B.A. (Oxon).
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev, C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
C Blackburn, Esq., Parkfield,
Didsbury, near Manchester
Mrs. Louisa Lowe
J. T. Markley, Esq.
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holm-
peld (Holstein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adelberth de Bourbon,First
Lieut, of the Dutch Guard to
the King of the Netherlands
M. L. P. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Varley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Fbiese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E..
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Marryat
Madame Isabel de Steiger
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 33, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai ; 51, East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S. ; Religio-Philosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear-
nGy-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
Yi CHARLES BRADLAUGrH : THE PSYCHOLOGY
OE HIS CHARACTER.
|| BY J. T. MARKLEY : AUTHOR OE ‘1 STRAY THOUGHTS OH
MANY THEMES.”
) i “ Mr. Charles Bradlaugh is the most talented advocate of
II Atheism which the present generation has produced.”—Echo.
! “ This monstrosity is now allowed to sit in Parliament.”—The
I Press, and St. James' Chronicle,
The above diverse expressions of represen-
| tative opinion, and sympathy^ for and against
! the notorious fruitful philosopher of defiant
i Atheism, may serve as suggestive texts for a
! few psychological observations upon “ JSTorth-
! ampton’s elegant contribution to the senate.’’
fj To be impartial, I will avoid current
|! political disputes. This is not the place to
?! discuss the Parliamentary claims of Mr. Brad-
>! laugh. But, by an accident of circumstances,
s | the great arch-enemy of revealed religion has
(i become an historic figure; and as such, may
?! be fairly subjected to critical analysis.
> I Whilst intelligently prepossessed in favour of
S! Christianity and the immortality of the soul,
(I I will not—intentionally—misrepresent even
?| the most emboldened foe of the world’s
?r grandest hope and faith.
J [ In the ethics of belief, Mr. Bradlaugh is no
hypocrite. If he is not a born Materialist,
?! his peculiar temperament certainly favours
>! all that is revolutionary in theology and social
> | relationship. The two cardinal forces of his
j} character are intellectuality and combativeness
? ! in individual opinion. He is a pugilist of
> j thought. He must get antagonistic, and strike
>! somebody or something somewhere. The
H perpetual fight of which his restless life has
?! been the embodiment, affords him a kind of
>! savage pleasure. Other people’s mental un-
| comfortableness, is Mr. Bradlaugh’s sentiment
?! of satisfaction. He feels at home amid the
|| storm - distributed fragments of a wreck,
si What Byron was to literary quietude of
<| imaginative reflection—a brilliant howling
j tempest teasing a naturally glassy sea—-Brad-
| laugh is in the vulgar chaos of democratic
sj revolution. However, his meaning is better
H than his methods of destruction, and propaganda.
? l His intention is to reform, but, with material-
)! istic cruelty and disregard of the finer feelings
)! and traditions of opponents, he must perforce
14
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 9, 1880
and inevitably smash his way onwards, up- jj>
wards, and forward. Devoid of spirituelle K
sympathy with any of the old faiths, he lacks k
emotional tenderness. His morality is con- D
sequently statuesque. Intellectual sternness I)
alone, and the responsibilities of party leader- |s
ship, would prevent such a man from being k
conspicuously wicked. But the moral good- !?
ness of Materialists of the Bradlaugh type only |>
illustrates the uncontagious beauty and cold- K
ness of Parian marble. It is deficient in the K
glowing inspiration which grows and blesses, |>
by a mysterious fusion of congenial elements. S
Such piety is platonic, defiant, essentially K
quarrelsome in its normal conditions and as- k
sumptions. The dogmatism of intrepid com- j)
manders either in warfare, or in controversial IS
thought, begets a kind of combative holiness, Is
which, when severed from the discipline of I
duty, bears as much resemblance to the sweet, I?
affectionate, moral sentiments of religious j>
spirituality as chalk to cheese. If the dis- |<
believer or materialist happens to be a pro- .
found literary genius of the first water, like
Shelley, then the interior gladsomeness of r
music and passion alone rushes out into a k
morality which saves the aspiring soul from !
most of earth’s grossness, and makes the daily ]!
life Heaven. In fact, poetic materialism is, b
and always has been, as rich in the odours of I
moral purity, as was the removed sphere of I
devotional sectarian society which produced b
Luther, Calvin, Charming, Wesley, and the |S
lesser Christians whose beautiful walk and K
conversation recall Christ’s saying about the j?
salt of the earth. Mr. Bradlaugh is the in- j;
veterate antithesis of popular church and Is
chapel belief. His scorn of Salem Meeting j<
House is chiefly a temperamental aversion, j?
He would be equally ill at ease in one of our j)
most magnificent Cathedrals. Cromwell him- |s
self could not have less sesthetic interest in old k
ruins and temples. Bradlaugh, from normal k
defects of poetic and devotional sensibility, is |>
impervious to sensuous charms and appeal, is
He could kneel only to the inharmonious dis- K
intregration of existing elements, monuments, ?
and antique ways of thinking, from the same |)
fine boisterous antipathis of feeling, which Is
prevents Algernon Swinburne from bowing to K
do the polite to anything less annoying and j?
destructive than fire, boiling sea-wrath, the |;
hellish fall of rocks, and the splendid damaging is
play of the ribbons of lightning. But Mr. K
Bradlaugh would only posture, and menace, j?
with commonplace slashing arguments against ||
institutions and beliefs in his way; whilst the j<
lyrical poet would interest the witnessing
world with dramatic entertainment, even in
pulling down to spit upon society’s conser¬
vative strongholds. Herein rest the prosy
democratic efforts and sympathies of Brad-
laughism, as contradistinguished from the
more alluring materialistic standpoint of the
philosophic and cultured sceptics among the
great men of science, and the disbelieving
portion of the literati. Mr. Bradlaugh cannot
even tolerate the Bible as an excusable poem.
He has no imaginative much less spiritual
interest in the romantic records, be they fact
or fable, of the written careers of Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob. He ridicules all that in¬
telligent millions have cherished most de¬
voutly among all nations for thousands of
years. It matters not to the chosen of North¬
ampton whether men of the highest types of
human goodness, before whose genius and
clearness of intellectual perception most men
pause—have respected religious tradition. It
serves Mr. Bradlaugh’s atheistic purposes to
perpetually and at times vulgarly sneer,
even at the reported idyllic home-life of the
patriarchs and prophets. Viewed phreno-
logically, the now famous infidel politician
possesses a splendid altitude of brain where
veneration sits with soiled dignity to abuse its
own gift of pre-eminence. But the head lacks
breadth, poetry, kindliness, the dreamy sway of
art, and that emotional tenderness which only
comes of ideality and the cultivated capacity
for the raptures of music. Such a person
could no more enter into the holy ecstacies of
Handel and Mozart, or the anti-materialistic
sweetness and spirituelle visions of Heber,
Keble, Mrs. Hemans, Tennyson, or even the
magnificent non-theological melodious soul-
passion of the republican Victor Hugo, than
an ordinary ironmonger’s assistant could sing
at the Italian Opera, or the railway navvy
could talk the unearthly language of the vil¬
lage belle. It is Mr. Bradlaugh’s tempera¬
ment, as it has become his sleepless mission, to
fight and curse. This he does with gentle¬
manly vigour, and a certain politeness of
eloquence not always associated with sworn
infidels to whom existing faiths and historic
forms of society are seemingly false and re¬
pugnant. From his earliest years Charles
Bradlaugh, like the youth of ancient Rome, was
trained for combat, if not on a Campus
Martius, at least u outside the walls ” of the
communion which includes and softens his
fellows. Small wonder that he should delight,
not in the tenderness of peace, construction,
Jitly 9, 1880 THE 8 P I H
or restoration, but in throwing the javelin H
which would draw blood from already aching k|
hearts: the skilful thrower, stamping his feet, |
and gnashing with his teeth meanwhile. If, j)
in dealing out counter-commands to the K
operative secularist crowd on whose platform K
applause Mr. Bradlaugh ravenously feeds, w
he appears to lack politeness in rudely dispos- jS
ing of the Christian’s God, and the claims of a K
hallowing faith in a future world where j?
Animalism is not the one passion of life, it j;
must be admitted that this strange man’s tact \S
is phenomenal. Combined with evident ex- K
pediency as to results, this wonderful tact in j?
the-recent Parliamentary dispute has ensured |>
him a name just now as well known in n
Europe as our most renowned statesmen. The |<
rare historic apotheosis of which he has just |?
been the more than dramatic subject in the j;
Clock Tower of St. Stephen’s, might possibly js
have been partly anticipated by such a psycho- j<
logical student of events as Mr. Bradlaugh. j>
Whilst the iron was being made 'hot, he was jS
cautiously preparing to strike. The blow has |s
been opportunely dealt; and he now stands !<
the temporary conqueror of the greatest \)
Legislative Assembly in the world. Therefore, j;
the extraordinary personal character of such a s
man is worthy of the thoughtful attention of k
all persons interested in the almost occult !>
sway of such an imperial will-power as few in- |S
dividuals possess. The future influence of K
such a bold, combative materialist is a matter Iv
for reflection. Despising the revelations of |>
Scripture, the possibility of preternatural IS
visions and thef ordinary sweetness of home K
relationships, this eloquent Malthusian, who k
will not stoop to prayer, and who lacks the |)
music of praise, is certainly one of the most h
unanticipated personages of the ninteeenth <
century.
If natural temperament and intense theo- j;
logical antipathies deprive Mr. Bradlaugh of js
the delicacy and spirituality of poetic emotion, he j (
is still a man of wonderfully positive character, k
His embittered will-power gives a certain |>
popular effect, and at times a majesty of js
sustained utterance to gifts of oratory of no js
mean order. If he lacks the highest kind of j
verbal and written eloquence, namely emotional b
agitation and “ inspiration from within,” he js
at least has cultivated, and can at any time call j<
to his aid a truly splendid accent and emphasis,
On great occasions he may make this adroit js
sledge-hammer climax of sentences such a js
powerful instrument in Parliamentary debate, |<
as has not been counted in the estimates by his j^
iTItALIST. 15
enemies, of his perplexing individuality. It
needs no Lamartine to detect in those desperate
lips an amount of intellectual determination
which may make less pugilistic speakers cower
before the artillery of his impassioned state¬
ments as an oratorical foe in the House of Com¬
mons. Possibly, however, as he will lack the
democratic applause of the Lancashire mill
operatives when he rises to address the most
educated representative chamber in England,
he may not (< make the lightnings play round
their heads ” to the extent calculated, and as per
his own dogmatic boast. To be in his element,
even of destructive oratory, Mr. Bradlaugh
must needs hear the clank of northern mills;
recall the proverbs of Robespierre and the
gleam of Phrygian caps, or enjoy an impulsive
magnificent hatred of established thrones.
Under such an inspiration the elect of North¬
ampton reaches the finest combative point of
controversial speech, and betrays a soul-force
such as only agonising orators can put forth in
the rancorous frenzy of a successful attack
upon olden ideas, prejudices and institutions.
Legal training has given to Mr. Bradlaugh’s
methods of iconoclastic attack, the cool poise
and graduating climb of forensic argument.
Early ambitions only partly realised even now
are remembered, and applied with all the ex¬
ceptional self-esteem indicated in his, high
narrow head, and notoriety is coveted as the
only sure and certain hope of immortality—the
immortality only of earth. To the psychological
student of character, Mr. Bradlaugh’s motives
and actions are consistent and logical with his
own limited view of life. From the cradle to
the grave the space and duration meets his
wants, and comprehends the cramped scope of
his vision. He is an orator. He is an image-
breaker. The lightnings which played so hotly
in warnings at Belshazzar’s Feast might be
repeated, without frightening him. Ill-health
only, and the decay of his unique intellectual
faculties, may soften and hallow his defiant
dangerous strength of will. Or the spirit of
the living God may suddenly show him his
littleness, as was the case with Saul of Tarsus.
The probable ultimate influence of his
speeches, writings and poHtieal career, may
make history applaud his fearful isolated power,
or blush to recognise a revolution which he
kindled in theology, morals, or politics. This
must be decided by the lapse of time. The
only object of this brief analysis of the character
of one whose opinions and teachings I detest,
is to impartially lay bare a few of the tempera¬
mental causes of the remarkable individuality
16
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 9, 1880
■which now make Charles Bradlaugh so much
hated and feared, and so influential and con¬
spicuous.
Horsham, Sussex.
POEM MANIFESTATIONS IN NEWCASTLE.
The following letter is dated June 16th,
hut it reached us only a few days ago :—
, To the Editor of The Spiritualist..
Sir,—When I awoke on Sunday morning
last, I found the sun shining brightly, and as
I lay a few minutes pondering whether to
haye a long walk into the country or attend
the ordinary seance in the rooms of the New¬
castle Spiritual Eyidence Society, I thought
of the hawthorn blossoms I might gather in
some quiet country lanes I knew of, which
would certainly be preferable to being cooped
up in a closed and darkened chamber for two
hours in a poisonous atmosphere. I however,
bethought myself that if I went a-May-
gathering I should not (without much incon-
yenience) have another opportunity for a
few months of viewing the uncommon and
unique phenomena occurring at the rooms.
I looked at my watch, and finding it to be
still early morn, I resolved, as the saying runs,
on “ killing two birds with one stone.” I
rose to go in search of May-blossoms, getting
back in time for the seance at Weir’s Court,
which commences at 10.30 a.m.
On reaching the rooms, I counted some five
and twenty persons present, among whom was
Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Didsbury, near
Manchester, and than whom I very much
doubt if there be another enquirer more
anxious to obtain bona fide phenomena. Mr.
Blackburn’s extensive and varied experiences
in this investigation pre-eminently qualify
him as an observer, and as he is so character¬
istically independent in thought and expression,
I am quite sure, on public grounds, he will
not hesitate to correct or corroborate this
report wherever it may either be inaccurate or
a true statement of facts, and if I should un¬
consciously exaggerate in describing these and
some other seances I attended in company
with Mr. Blackburn, your readers may rest
assured that his more cautious estimates will
duly appear, for which none will be more
grateful than myself, as I desire to report only
what actually occurred, and what I believe
to be thoroughly genuine phenomena.
Eor a fuller description of the conditions
under which the facts I am about to recite
took place, I must refer your readers to
(j previous reports. Suffice it to say that after
[I Miss Wood, the medium, retired into the
;l closet or cabinet, Mr. Blackburn and Mr.
sj Martin, of Gateshead, effectually fastened the
<| door by screwing it from the outside.
After sitting about half-an-hour, (and sing-
)| ing to pass time) in a light sufficient to allow
sj each person present readily to see that no-
o body in the circle could, without immediate
>| detection, actively aid in the evolution of the
S| phenomena, a white filmy-like substance of the
sj dimensions of a lady’s pocket-handkerchief fell
d on the floor, apparently from the inner side of
>| the green curtains hanging in front of the
>1 closet.
I closely watched this white substance as it
(j was being elongated and widened, when a
)j general undulating movement of the mass,
Sj with a strong upward tendency, was observ-
sj able; and as it developed itself, it gradually
d assumed in outline a form corresponding to
>j the outline of the human figure ^and then
sj appeared to become more and more con-
si solidated, until the perfect structure was ac-
<j complished. It then quietly approached nearly
>j all the sitters, affording evidence in various
Sj ways of its tangibility, and, I may add, the
j hand of the form coming in the way I have
?j feebly, but faithfully described, took mine in
S| its firm grasp, and I found it to be as tangible
sj as the hand which now guides this pen.
After remaining with us about fifteen
>j minutes, we desired it if possible to dis-
Sj appear from our view without retiring
! behind the curtains. Preparatory, I presume,
(j to doing so, it displayed a considerable quantity
>! of white drapery, behind which it appeared to
>| screen itself, gradually receding from the
l\ centre of the circle until it came within a
cl radius of about two feet from the curtains,
>1 when it appeared to sink very rapidly, until
Sj the likeness to the human form was entirely
s j lost or destroyed, and naught remained but the
?j elongated white substance, which gradually
>j melted away. I may further remark that just
Sj as I was closely noticing the disappearance of
| the minutest speck remaining of the white
?j substance, I heard a great many of the sitters
p simultaneously with my own silent observa-
Sj tions exclaim, “ It is gone now,” and imme-
v diately after this general exclamation there
j emerged from the inner side of the curtains a
>j diminutive and (as Mr. Blackburn—with
Si whom it was very friendly—described it) a
(\ “ deformed ” but very familiar form called
?| “ Pocha” at Miss Wood’s circle,
)| It was more particularly in Mr. Blackburn’s
17
July 9, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST#
neighbourhood than any one else. Although
he had on this occasion better facilities than
others to form a correct judgment of the matter,
and although I do not know what his matured
conclusions are, I shall endeavour to describe
what occurred when the form was entirely
isolated. It seated itself on the floor against
the wall and close to the curtains, trying to
speak to the sitters for a few minutes, when it
suddenly shifted to the inner side of the
curtains; but it was scarcely out of sight when
there came immediately into view at the
aperture of the curtains a columnar mass of
white drapery, estimated to he fully six feet
high, and which slowly moved to two or three
of the sitters (Mr. Blackburn being one) and
shook hands with them. It then retired
behind the curtains, to be followed a few
seconds after by a well developed form very
much like the medium in height and structure;
it was intimated to be the sister of the me¬
dium. A very noticeable diflerence was
observed between the hands of this and the
preceding tall figure by those who shook hands
with both forms. This form also withdrew,
and either it or a very similar form appeared
at the aperture of the curtains, and without
coming farther and after making a few in¬
clinations, it opened the curtains wide and I
observed it taking out the screws which fas¬
tened the closet door, after which, the medium
in the chair, was in some unknown way dragged
out of the closet, and turned round so that she
was sitting in her chair with her back to the
sitters and facing the curtains. A white
handkerchief was placed on the head of the
medium, who was sitting in a deep trance, so
that all could see where she was sitting, and
presently at the right of Miss Wood a shadowy
form appeared. It attempted to get round the
medium but failed, after which we were in¬
formed that the power was exhausted.
Jno. Mould.
12, St. Thomas Crescent, iMewcastle-on-Tyne, June 16th, 1880.
In relation to the above stance, Mr. Charles
Blackburn, of Parkfield, Didshury, near Man¬
chester, sends us the following letter, which
was written by him to his daughter the day
after he witnessed the manifestations. He
says that the letter was not originally intended
for publication, otherwise he would have
worded it differently here and there:—
Douglas Hotel, Newcastle, 4th June, 1880.
Dear Eliza,—For something to do, I will
try to describe a splendid stance yesterday
morning at Weir’s Court, the meeting place of
|| the Association on Sunday, About twenty-
i five assembled at 10.30 in the morning. Miss
| Wood, (just the same as Katie Cook in height,
| hut black hair and brown cloth embroidered
I jacket on) went into a cabinet formed in a
! corner, and made of thin calico like that on
our greenhouse outside, next breakfast room—
only room within it for one chair, and when
she was seated I was asked to screw up the
* door of it, which I did. A green baize cur¬
tain half-a-yard from the cabinet, surrounded
the cabinet for forms to materialise in.
Light just enough to see ourselves, and we
singing from ten to twenty minutes. Then
u Pocha ” shouted through Miss Wood, u I
have entranced my medium and will sing
through her; it is her organism I use, whilst
other spirits are preparing to come.” After
two songs Pocha came in white; only a yard
high, a deformed dwarf. She let me feel she
was solid and not on her knees, with awful
bow legs, and baby feet and child’s face. We
played awhile in middle of circle, sitting on
the floor, whilst she got on my back;
she was, say, 201bs or more weight. She
then said another was wanting to come, “ a
friend of mine,” so she went behind the screen;
but we asked for the next to come on the
floor and grow up and vanish in the same way.
Kj She said, “I’ll try!” We sang for a quarter
j?j of an hour, and outside the baize curtain ap-
|)j peared a little bit of white mist, which kept
Is! elongating along the floor for say one-and-a-
Kl half yards. Then inside it, hands or head be-
j?| gan lifting it upwards, and suddenly it became
p| a full human female form; it did not speak,
|sI but came, and with its warm hand, stroked
k my face, patted my forehead, fetched me from
| | a side table a glass of water to drink, and I
|>j left her a little to taste, which she drank; she
|s| served many others in the room, then said she
j<| must go, and she gradually vanished before
m our eyes just as she came. In say eight or
|S| ten minutes other forms kept appearing, and it
Is| was a glorious sight. I am tired with writing
| and must finish my tale when I see you. I
S will return on Wednesday and shall telegraph
|)| you the hour. C. B.
jsj Show this to anybody and they will say
Kj that twenty-five fools were present and not
I?! “wise men of the East.”
|)| I heard T. B. Barkas’s lecture, a very clever
Is| one, in the evening.
Kj  + 
]>! Mrs. Maltby has given up her tenancy of the spare
j(j rooms of the National Association of Spiritualists, and
j)I xi:ow empty*
18 THE SPI
PSYCHOGRAPHY.
A private seance was held in Captain James’s
apartments, 129, Gower Street, London, last
Saturday evening, with Mr. Rita as medium.
Towards the end of the sitting, the controlling
spirit desired his medium to go into the bed¬
room, over the entrance to which a curtain was
hanging. The spirit desired Colonel Evans
and Miss Burke to hold a double folding slate,
which had previously been cleaned, tied, sealed,
and the edges securely covered with gummed
paper by General Maclean and Miss Burke.
The sitters were then desired to give the initials
of their surnames in the order they sat in
front of the curtain, and soon afterwards Miss
Burke felt, in the dark, a small soft hand on
the slate and a scratching sound was heard as
of someone writing. On a light being struck
the slate was opened. On one leaf was found
written “ God bless you all,” and on the other
leaf a clearly formed M. and W. an indistinct
J. and E. and a very distinct B., being the initials
of the names of General Maclean, Mr. Wilding,
Capt. James, Col. Evans and Miss Burke.
The slate, during the whole evening, was
never out of the custody of Colonel Evans and
Miss Burke.
SPIRITUALISM IN YANCOUYER’S ISLAND.
A trustworthy correspondent writes to us
from Yancouver’s Island: — “I have been
having some very extraordinary occurrences at
my stances—shadowy figures which several see
more or less distinctly; between thirty and
forty are counted frequently. Flashes, and
round balls of primrose and pink colour are seen.
A figure once stood opposite to me just as I
stood up to light the candle (which was on
the mantlepiece); he was dressed in Egyptian
cut clothes, braided, and of purple hue. I have
been much in the East, but never saw the face
before, nor any clothes of that colour. We
have no communications however. There are
seven members in our circle.”
A PRIVATE SEANCE.
BY MAJOR GENERAL J. W. N. MAOLEAN.
On Tuesday a small party, at the kind invita- j) j
tion of Miss Cook, assembled in Mr. Charles m
Blackburn's room at 33, Museum Street, js|
London.
They were Mrs. and Miss Cook, Colonels |)|
Stewart and Evans, a lady and gentleman m
unknown to me, and myself. Kj
Being aware of the partiality of our spirit kj
friends for beautiful flowers, I had provided !;
myself with a basket of choice roses, which I oj
ITUALIST. July 9, 1880
]H took with me to the seance room, and with the
pi medium’s permission I placed them on the table
k| round which we were to sit. The party having
|?| taken their places, the gas was turned down so
| | as to give a subdued light, but this very shortly
went out altogether, and we commenced our
seance in total darkness.
We had been sitting but a very few minutes,
when Lillie Gordon’s sweet whispering voice
was heard, accompanied by the usual signs
that influences from the unseen world were
present and at work. One of these, (rather a
remarkable one), was the heavy table of its
own accord rising in the air to a height of from
one to two feet, and rocking to and fro like a
boat in a rough sea for several minutes.
Shortly after this had occurred, and the table
had resumed its position on the floor again,
Lillie gave thirty loud raps in succession,
which she informed us represented the number
of the band of spirits that accompanied
her, ready to assist her. She then materialised,
bringing with her a bright and beautiful light,
so much so that her features could be clearly
seen ; even the colour of her eyes was discern¬
ible by it. She kissed several of the party in
the most affectionate, gentle, and spirit-like
manner, and kept up a constant flow of con¬
versation.
On being asked if she had anything she
valued in spirit land, she said, yes she had, and
volunteered to bring her little stock of jewellery
for inspection, which she did, and presented
each of the visitors with some of it to look at
and handle. To one she gave a bracelet; on
my finger she placed a ring, and to a third
person she gave a locket, and so on to each of
us in succession. She also displayed some
other remaining articles of jewellery on her
spirit light, laying them on it so that they
could be clearly seen. This light was one of
the most beautiful I have ever seen; it appeared
like a piece of bright transparent polished spar,
lighted up with a soft clear luminous phos¬
phoric substance, and was held in Lillie’s hands
under a corner of her white transparent drapery,
through which it shone clear and bright. I
have mentioned that I brought her a basket of
roses, which I asked her to accept. She said,
“ Are they really for me—for my own self ? ”
I told her they were to do whatever she liked
with. She then said, “ I will give one rose to
my medium, and the rest I will take away
with me; and if I can, the next time we
meet, I will restore them to you in the same
state they are now, except the one rose which
I shall give to my medium.”
July 9, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST.
19
She then took back her jewellery from each j<
of us, and wishing us good night, she vanished |?
from our sight. On lighting the gas we \{
found the basket of roses had gone, and that n
Lillie, as good as her word, had really de- |<
materialised them and taken them away.
I should have mentioned that before com- j)
mencing the seance, I myself locked the door
and put the key in my pocket, where it re- K
mained until the seance broke up.
Whether Lillie can fulfil her promise of
restoring the basket of roses remains to be |s
seen, but it should be remembered, she only said j<
she would do so if she could.
57, Gloucester Gardens, Hyde Park, London.
 * 
THE EDITORSHIP OF “PUBLIC OPINION.” . j
We have received the following letter j<
from Mr. Seaman, who, it will be remembered, j<
gave public testimony in The Spiritualist of <
the remarkable things he had seen in Slade’s K
presence, and at a time when Slade was being j>
attacked at law :—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—Will you give me the opportunity of
informing your readers that, after seventeen |<
years’ association with Public Opinion, first as K
manager, and afterwards as manager and j?
editor, that connection has terminated? I j>
would take this opportunity of tendering my |S
grateful thanks to my confreres on the press K
and to other numerous correspondents of j?
Public Opinion for their exchanges, suggestions, |;
and contributions—^valuable help which has K
lightened my labours throughout many years k
past. Isaac Seaman.
11, Southampton Street, Strand, July 1st.
 ♦  .
Mrs.Tappajst-Richmond :—On Thursday evening, last k
•week, a meeting of the friends of Mrs. Tappan-Rich- jS
mond, the American trance medium, was held at the j)
Neumeyer Hall, Hart Street, Bloomsbury, London, K
to welcome her on her return for a [short time to this j)
country. Some remarks in accordance with the object j<
of the meeting were made by the Chairman, (Mr. K
Stainton-Moses), Mr. Burns, Mr. Morse, and Miss |)
Georgiana Houghton, and some excellent music and K
singing wererendered by Mr., Mrs., and the Misses Ward. K
An address from the Frst Society of Spiritualists at !/
Chicago was read, commending Mrs. Richmond to the | (
attention of English Spiritualists, and the chairman |)
was empowered to frame an answer on behalf of the j)
meeting. Mrs. Richmond addressed the meeting K
under control three times, and the proceedings were of j;
a harmonious character. Mrs. Nosworthy, who had k
accompanied Mrs. Richmond from Liverpool, and Mrs. i)
Strawbridge were among those who had taken an j)
active and kindly part in promoting the meeting. Next K
Sunday at 7 p.m., Mrs. Richmond will give a trance j>
address at the Goswell Hall, 290, Goswell Road, Is- k
lington, and next Friday evening she will deliver s
another trance address at the St. James’s Hall, I)
Piccadilly. $
A PUZZLE FOR METAPHYSICIANS.
BY HARIETTE WOODS BAKER.
In the month of November, 1845, the ship
Sophia Walker sailed from Boston bound for
Palermo. The owners, Messrs. Theophilus
and Nathaniel Walker, had invited them
brother-in-law, the Rev. Charles Walker, to
go out to Palermo, as passenger, for the bene¬
fit of his health.
Among the crew was a young man named
Frederick Stetson. He was the eldest son of
the Rev. Caleb Stetson, at that time pastor of
the Unitarian church at Medford, Massachu¬
setts.
Frederick had been in a store in Boston, but,
not being well, returned home to be under the
care of a physician. His health did not im¬
prove ; and Dr. Bemis, of Medford, advised a
sea-voyage as the most likely to restore his
vigour. Frederick was delighted with this
prospect, and his parents reluctantly consented.
It was thought best for his health that he
should go on board as a sailor; but a contract
was made with Captain John Codman, that in
case Frederick should become weary of his
duties, he should be admitted to the cabin in
the capacity of captain’s clerk.
From the fact that the Rev. Mr. Stetson
was a neighbour and friend, I became acquainted
with these circumstances at the time the young
man left home and embarked on board the
Sophia Walker. The father also requested
my husband to speak to Captain Codman, his
former pupil, in regard to the youth.
In common with other friends I sympathised
with Mr. and Mrs. Stetson in parting from
their son under these painful circumstances;
but domestic cares and other scenes gradually
effaced these impressions, until I forgot the
length of time he expected to be absent, and
indeed lost all recollection of his voyage.
I relate these circumstances in detail that
the reader may understand more fully the
remarkable facts which followed.
During the latter part of February, 1846,
the death of my mother, Mrs. Leonard Woods,
of Andover, was succeeded by my own danger¬
ous illness. In March I was seized with hae¬
morrhage of the lungs, and lay for days
hovering between life and death.
One night, when the crisis seemed to have
passed, a member of my husband’s church,
Mrs. Sarah Butters, who had been watching
with me, retired soon after midnight to give
place to my husband who was to watch with
me till morning. I had taken the medicine
prescribed by my physician, and was endeavour-
20 THE 8PIEI
ing to compose myself to sleep, when all at j)
once, with the vividness of a flash of light- ;S
ning, the following scene was before me:—A |<
tremendous ocean storm; a frail vessel pitch- j?
ing headlong into the trough of the sea j a D
billow mountain-high ready to engulf her; |S
a slender youth clinging to the mast head ; a K
more furious blast, a higher wave, and the |?
youth, whom notwithstanding the darkness I |)
instantly recognised as Frederick Stetson, fell |>
into the foaming, seething deep.
As he struck the water I shrieked in agony; R
and my husband sprang to my side, expecting |>
to see the crimson drops again oozing from my K
lips. My countenance, full of horror, terrified K
him.
“ What is it? ” he asked.
I motioned him to silence, unable to with- K
draw my thoughts from the scene. I still |<
heard the roaring of the angry billows, the R
shouts of the captain and crew.
“Man overboard!” “Throw a rope!” “Let |>
down the lifeboat!” “It’s no use ; the ship |<
has pitched beyond his reach!”
Fresh groans from my lips brought new j)
anxiety to my faithful watcher. He seized K
my trembling hand, placed his fingers on my K
pulse, and started back with dismay when he j?
felt their feverish bound.
“ What is it ? are you in more pain ? shall I |S
go for the doctor ? ”
a Oh, it’s dreadful!” I gasped. “I can’t k
tell. It’s awful! ”
Then I passed into a still more remarkable jS
state. Heretofore I had seen what was going K
on at the moment; now my mind went forward, k
and saw events that occurred two, three days, j>
two weeks, later.
The storm had abated. The vessel, though k
injured, was able to proceed on her way. It k
was on the Sabbath; the crew were sitting in j;
silent reverence, while theclegyman, Eev. Mr. |S
Walker, read, prayed and preached a funeral |s
sermon, caused by the late sad event. Every |<
eye was moistened, every breath hushed, as R
the speaker recounted the circumstances connec- | >
ted with Frederick’s voyage, and endeavoured K
to impress upon the minds of his hearers the k
solemn truth of the uncertainty of life.
Another scene. Our own chamber: a K
messenger coming in haste with a letter from K
Captain Codman announcing Frederick’s death. Ij
The words of the letter I could read.
One more scene. I seemed to be again on |j
board the Sophia Walker. Mr. Stetson was |!
there, standing by Frederick’s open chest, into k
which the captain had thoughtfully placed every ] \
T U A L I S T. July 9, 1880
article belonging to his late clerk. The
father’s tears fell copiously while Captain
Codman dilated on Frederick’s exemplary
conduct during the entire voyage. When
they reached Palermo, he had expressed his
wish to enter upon the duties of a clerk,
according to their contract, if tired of a sailor’s
life, and since that hour had taken his place
with the officers in the cabin.
All this passed before my mind with the rapi¬
dity of lightning. I lay trembling with agitation,
until startled to present realities by my hus¬
band’s voice, while he held a spoon to my lips.
The first question I asked was “ What day
of the month is it ? ’
u The 10th of March.”
“What time did you come into the room? ”
“ It was past twelve when I gave you your
medicine. Soon after you seemed greatly dis¬
tressed. Can you tell me now what it was ? ”
“It is dreadful,” I whispered, gasping be¬
tween every word.' “ Frederick Stetson is
drowned ; I saw him fall into the sea.”
“ Oh, no ! ” was the cheerful reply. “You
had been thinking of him and dreamed it.”
“ FTo; I was wide awake. I saw him fall.
I have not once thought of him for weeks.
Oh, what will his parents say ?”
Soon after this, exhausted by my terrible
excitement, I fell into a troubled sleep. When
I awoke it was dawn, and I immediately com¬
menced narrating to my husband the scenes I
had witnessed, he making a note of them and
their precise date.
Perceiving that this conversation greatly
agitated me he left the chamber to enquire
whether the Sophia Walker had come into
port, and promised to direct our son, a school¬
mate of Edward Stetson, to ask whether
Frederick had returned from his voyage.
This he did, thinking to allay my nervous
excitement, which he fully believed to be the
result of a fevered dream.
At an early hour Dr. Samuel Swan, one of
my physicians, came to my bedside. He ex¬
pressed his disappointment at finding my pulse
greatly accelerated, and asked the cause.
I then, though not without great exhaustion,
repeated to him what I had seen, my husband
being present, Mrs. Butters (the lady already
referred to), and a woman who had lived in my
family for years.
In the course of a week several persons were
made acquainted with these facts, though, from
the fear lest they should reach the ears of the
parents, they were told under an injunction of
secrecy.
July 9, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST.
21
In the meantime I listened eagerly to my
son’s daily bulletins from his schoolmate.
u Fred is coming soon.” l< Mother has his
clothes all ready.” u Father says he may be
here any day now.” u The Sophia Walker is
due this week.” •
It was two weeks before the ship arrived in
port; but I was so far convalescent that I was
permitted to sit up, wrapped in blankets, for
an hour or two each day.
On one of these occasions, while Mr. Baker
and the family were at dinner, the bell rang,
and presently I heard my husband, in answer
to the summons of the servant, hurry to the
door.
It was scarcely a minute before he entered
my chamber, pale, and evidently trying to
conceal his emotion. He had an open letter in
his hand, upon which his eyes were fastened.
(t You have Captain Codman’s letter,’’ I said.
u Yes,” he answered, “and in almost the
words you repeated to me.”
I held out my hand for the sheet, and my
tears fell fast as I read the following lines,
evidently written in great haste :
“ Rev. Mr. Baker.
“ My Dear Sir,—I must beg you to perform a pain¬
ful duty. Poor Frederick was lost overboard in a gale
on the 10th. You must tell his father, I cannot.
u I never had anything occur that has given me so
much pain. He was everything that I could desire ;
and I can truly say that I never had occasion to reprove
him, and that his uniform good conduct won the esteem
and love of us all. There was this satisfaction—that no
one of us was so well prepared for death.
“I will detail the circumstances at more leisure; but
enough to say now, he was lost from the foretopsail
yard in a gale of wind, and human exertion could not
save him. You can best administer consolation to his
distressed parents. Show them the sermon preached on
the Sabbath following his death, which accompanies
this, and assure them of my heartfelt sympathy.
“ Yours truly,
“March 25th, 1846.” ^ “J. Codman.
While my eyes glanced over the lines,
familiar as if penned by myself, Mr. Baker
was making hurried preparations to go to Mr.
Stetson’s.
“ Young Hall brought it out,” he explained.
“ Captain Codman wished me to have the letter
at once, lest the parents should hear the sor¬
rowful tidings in an abrupt manner.”
The sad scenes which followed are too sacred
to be even touched upon here. Mr. Baker did
not return home for hours, having offered to
go to Cambridge, and convey the sad intel¬
ligence to Merriam Stetson, the second son, who
was a member of Harvard College.
“I am to go into Boston to see Captain
Codman in the morning,” he said, “ Mr.
Stetson is anxious to see him, and I shall ask
him to return with me.”
I recalled the last scene on board the Sophia
Walker, and said—“ I thought he himself
went in. It is the first thing not exactly in
accordance with my vision.”
I called it vision, for I was not asleep, and
therefore it could not be a dream.
The next morning, when Mr. Baker called
at Mr. Stetson’s house to take any additional
messages, he learned that, impatient and rest¬
less, the sorrowing father had found it impos¬
sible to wait, and had taken the earliest
conveyance into Boston, where a scene occurred
like what I had witnessed.
There was no longer need of secrecy in regard
to my prescience or foresight, if so it may be
called, and it speedily came to the parents’ ears.
Persons of intelligence of both sexes speculated
and puzzled over these remarkable mental
phenomena, unlike most recorded by philoso¬
phers in the fact, already stated, of the mind
not only recognising what was passing at the
moment at distance of hundreds of miles, but
going forward in advance of events, and fore¬
telling them with minute accuracy.
I make no effort to explain my mental state,
which I am entirely unable to do; but I may
be pardoned for quoting from a philosopher of
the present century, who, speaking of visions
and dreams, remarks—“ It is in vain to attempt
an explanation of them. They scarcely appear
referable to any principle with which we are
at present acquainted.”
Priestly, another metaphysician, adds—u If
the nerves and brain be a vibrating substance,
all sensations and ideas are vibrations in that
substance; and all that is properly unknown
in the business is the power of the mind to
perceive or be affected by these vibrations.”
The following case, somewhat analogous to
the one narrated above, is from “ Abercrombie
on the Intellectual Powers,” which says, “ I
relate this without any attempt at explanation,
and without any other comment than that its
accuracy may be relied on in all its par¬
ticulars : ”—
u Two ladies (sisters) had been for several
days in attendance upon their brother, who
was ill of a common sore throat, severe and
protracted, but not considered as attended with
danger. At the same time one of them had
borrowed a watch from a friend in consequence
of her own being under repairs. This watch
was one to which particular value was attached,
on account of some family associations, and
anxiety was expressed that it might not meet
22 THE SPIRI
wifli any injury. The sisters were sleeping t<
together in a room communicating with that of |;
their brother, when the elder of them awoke in | S
a state of great agitation, and haying roused k
the other, told her that she had had a frightful H
dream.
u ‘ I dreamed,’ she said, 1 that Mary’s watch K
stopped, and that when I told you of the cir- k
cumstance you replied, ( Much worse than that k
has happened, for brother’s breath has stopped |)
also.’
“To quiet her agitation, the younger sister j<
immediately got up, and found the brother k
sleeping quietly, and the watch, which had D
been carefully put in a drawer, going correctly. K
fo The succeeding night the very same dream k
occurred, followed by similar agitation which j>
was again composed in the same manner, the j)
brother being again found in a quiet sleep, and | J
the watch going well. On the following k
morning, soon after the family had breakfasted, ! ^
one of the sisters was sitting by her brother,
while the other was writing a note in the |S
adjoining room. When her note was ready for |<
being sealed, she was proceeding to take out w
for this purpose the watch alluded to, which i>
had been put by in her writing-desk—she was |s
astonished to find it had stopped. At the same k
moment she heard a scream of intense distress j)
from her sister in the other room. Their S
brother who had still been considered as going Is
on favourably, had been seized with a sudden k
fit of suffocation and had just breathed his j?
last.’’
But to resume my narrative. I find it im- Is
possible at this distance of time to recollect all k
the persons to whom these operations of my |)
mind were made known before the letter of |S
Captain Codman gave reality to my vision. Is
Among them were Dr. Swan and two female k
friends, who have since passed beyond the j)
scenes of earth. During his life my kind jS
physician frequently urged [me to publish an Is
account of these remarkable facts. My reasons k
for not doing so are suggested in a letter to |)
B-ev. Mr. Stetson, which, together with the K
reply and the testimony of other eye and ear js
witnesses, I subjoin for the satisfaction of those j?
who may desire additional proof of the strict |>
accuracy of this narrative—
“Rev. Caleb Stetson :— js
“Dear Sir,—If any apology is necessary for my |(
addressing you this note, I trust it may be found in the i)
friendly relations which have long subsisted between j ?
your family and ours, and in our personal relations to I s
the subject of this letter. I)
“You will no doubt [recollect the singular mental j<
phenomena which occurred during my severe illness jj)
T U A L I S T. July 9, 1880
some weeks before your son Frederick’s death, and
which at the time caused considerable discussion in
literary and scientific circles. By some conversant
with the facts I have been urged to write an account of
them for philosophical inquiry, they being considered
in many respects a more remarkable instance of pre¬
science or foresight than any on record ; but the fear of
being classed with visionaries and Spiritualists has
therefore prevented me.
“ Now, however, on a fresh application to state the
particulars in detail, I have consented to do so, and
would consider it a great personal favour if you will
carefully examine the accompanying statement, and, so
far as memoi'y will enable you, add in a note to me,
which I may be at liberty to publish, your corroborative
testimony respecting it.
“Mr. Baker uniteskvith me in very kind regards to
yourself and family.
“ With great esteem and respect,
Harriette W. Baker.
“Dorchester, February 16th, 1870.”
Bev. Mr. Stetson, having been sick for sev¬
eral weeks, requested his wife to answer for
him. She writes :—
“ Dear Mrs. Baker,—We have read your manuscript
with the deepest interest. You have expressed clearly
and correctly the whole subject as it has laid hidden in
our memories; and so vividly, too, have you portrayed
it, that the sad event of by-gone years comes to us
with the freshness of yesterday.
“ Mr. Stetson also wishes me to add that it might be
well for you to procure the testimony of those who were
informed of your wondrous vision before the event
transpired, as so many years have passed since that
fatal storm of March 10th, 1846.
“ WitlLour best wishes for yourself and husband,
“ Most affectionately yours,
“Julia M. Stetson.
“Lexington, February 19th, 1870.”
Acting upon the suggestion contained in
the above note, I received the following com¬
munications from those who have seen or heard
this article in manuscript. The first is from
the daughter of Bev. David Osgood, D.D., a
predecessor of Bev. Mr. Stetson, and for a long
course of years pastor of the first church in
Medford.
“Dear Mrs. Baker,—In answer to your enquiries,
I could state that I have a distinct recollection of hear¬
ing from you in your sick-chamber an account of your
vision in regard to the death ot Frederick Stetson, im¬
mediately after the sad events which you have so
vividly portrayed. The circumstances made a deep
impression on my mind, and I have always considered
your mental state as remarkably analogous to all that I
have ever heard of Scotch second-sight.
“ Most truly yours, L. Osgood.
“Medford, March 5th, 1870.”
From Mrs. Sarah B. Butters, to whom I have
already referred, I have also the following
testimony :—
“ This certifies that I was acquainted with the remark¬
able vision narrated by Mrs. Baker before the know¬
ledge of the death of Frederick Stetson reached me by
the arrival of the ship Sophia Walker in Boston, on the
25th day of March, 1846, and its exact correspondence
23
July 9, 1880
with, the circumstances of that sad event so impressed
me at the time as to leave in my mind a distinct
recollection both of the vision and its fulfilment.
Sabah B. Buttebs.
“Medford, March 2nd, 1870.”
I will introduce but one other witness, who
was with me on that fearful night, and was an
actor in some of these scenes. He writes :—
“ I am happy to bear my testimony to the truthful¬
ness and fidelity of the record of facts contained in this
narrative, and to assure the reader of its entire trust¬
worthiness. I thought them at the time, and have ever
since considered them, among the most remarkable
mental phenomena of which I have any knowledge, and
worthy of a place in the history of metaphysical science.
“ A. R. Bakeb.
“Dorchester, Massachusetts, March 8th, 1870.”
 ♦ 
MEDIUMS AND THE LAW.
At a recent meeting of Spiritualists held at 38, Great
Bussell Street, London, a paper was read by Mr.
Stainton-Moses on the above subject, in which, after
speaking about a memorial about to be sent in to the
Government in relation to this matter, he stated that
some Acts of Parliament which might conceivably be
employed against mediums, could be so used by
Spiritualists only, but this was not the case with the
Vagrancy Act. Yet a medium is not a vagrant, but
has a home and is usually to be found there; to call
him a vagrant is wresting the law from its intent, and
a perversion of justice. In the course of his paper he
described Dr. Purdon’s article as an illogical and un¬
scientific diatribe, and spoke of the emoluments received
by the Archbishop of Canterbury as compared with
those of mediums, for the exercise of spiritual gifts.
Mr. T. Shorter asked that the proposed memorial to
the Government should be read, and wanted to know to
whom in the first instance it was to be presented.
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that it was not decided to
whom it should be presented, and that it had been sent
out for signature to Lord Lindsay, Lord Dunraven, Mr.
Varley and others, who had also been asked whether
they would join a deputation to present it.
The Chairman, Mr. Fitzgerald, asked whether
Spiritualists could not organise their own police to deal
with fraudulent mediums.
Signor Bondi wished to know whether the Chairman
would send his police to private mediums, for private
mediums were to be found in nearly every house.
The Chairman would only employ the proposed
police against such alleged public mediums as deceived
the credulous.
A visitor remarked that the paper had said nothing
about the state of the law in foreign countries.
Signor Bondi said: In answer to the question, I
beg to say that in Italy we have no special laws against
mediums. Spiritualism is spreading in every town and
village. I have seen mediums working in theatres as
well as in public squares, producing the most wonder¬
ful phenomena, and the public as well as the police
taking part, all pleased to see the inexplicable
manifestations. In Borne alone, when it was under
the Pope’s Government, mediums were not allowed to
exercise their gift, and if they attempted to do so they
were sent to prison. Mr. Home was sent away from
Borne because he gave some seances. I was in Borne
when the Brothers Davenport arrived ; they gave some
splendid seances in public, and did a great deal of good
to prove the spirit power. The police did not molest
them. But we have laws there as well as in other
parts of the world, which punish those who attempt to
commit a fraud upon the public good faith. I am glad
to say we have not, as far as I know, paid mediums,
but some have been travelling from town to town with¬
out being molested by the police or anyone else.
After some remarks on another subject by Mr.
Wilson,
Mr. W. Coffin said that the author should have said
something about the law in other countries. The
American Consul-general had informed him that in
some of the New England States there were old laws
which might be used against mediums ; they had never
been repealed, and had been forgotten. If anybody
tried to enforce them they would be repealed. In the
New States, there were no such laws. He thought
that a comparison of English Statutes with those
abroad, would show to the advantage of the latter. It
was usual in defining a legal position, to compare
English laws with those of other countries.
A visitor having suggested that the paper should be
printed and circulated, the Bev. W. Miall thought that
if this were to be done, it would be best to omit the
reference to the Archbishop of Canterbury and his re¬
muneration for the exercise of spiritual gifts.
Dr. Wyld was of the same opinon. If the paper
were to be circulated by the Association, it should first
be revised by a committee. The memorial, which had
been seen by him, was an admirable one, but too long
to be studied by Mr. Gladstone or other busy people;
a few sentences might have contained the pith of the
matter. It said that in America there were eleven
millions of Spiritualists, which he did not believe to be
a fact.
Mr. Moses: The memorial is not before us.
He (Dr. Wyld) thought that three or four millions
would be nearer right.
Mr. Parkinson Ashton saw no harm in keeping in
the name of the Archbishop of Canterbury, even if the
Association were to circulate the paper.
After a few words from Mr. Wallis and Mr. Fletcher,
Mr. Shorter said he was sorry that the memorial was
not before the meeting for consideration. He thought
the assertion of eleven millions of Spiritualists in the
United States to be “ a gross and mischievous ex¬
aggeration.” Mr. Tebb had made careful inquiries on
the point in the States, and had come to the conclusion
that the number of Spiritualists there was certainly not
more than three-quarters of a million.
The Chairman : This is out of order.
Mr. Stainton-Moses: I protest against the criticising
of a document which is not before us.
Mr. Shorter wished to know the ground of action set
forth in the memorial, and thought with Dr. Wyld that
the paper just read to them should be revised by a
committee if it were to be circulated by the Association.
Dr. Wyld wished to know whether the memorial
would be submitted to the Association before adoption.
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that the memorial would be
submitted to the Council, and that he would not submit
to revision his paper just read.
The meeting closed with the usual votes of thanks.
The new book Psychic Facts was published last Tuesday
Mb. P. P. Good, Master in Chancery, of Plainfield,
New Jersey, a well-known American Spiritualist, is in
London this week, and will leave shortly for the Conti¬
nent.
Mb. F. 0. Matthews, the medium who was im¬
prisoned at Wakefield because of the action of ignorant
people, is in London, and was at Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory’s stance last Wednesday night.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
24
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jtoy 9, 1880
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
3$ the late Wm.'. Gbkgosy, M.D., F. Jt.S.E., Profetsor qf Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll,
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
JtWtpBblisbed, price 5s., or 5s. 8d. post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I s—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
- -Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CH APTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV s—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes -
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, Ac., Predicted—Pre-
liction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
Extatios—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII s—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others irf which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible ot Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, Ac., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylio
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—^Physiological, Therapeutical, &c.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—^Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—^Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c..
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XIInterest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—■
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Oases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Oases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—MagicMirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER xm :—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
--•Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—^Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases : Sir 3. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XTV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
airvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV .—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Pho¬
no merik—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
end Summary.
SyiritnaUst Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-strest. London.
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena :—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, hut sufficient
to allow everything to he seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably he table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message?” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop j the better class ot
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances because
no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either he used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervoua
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
July 9, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 8s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women 5 and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of sinner), he answers Yes 5 but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pnoisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
U1ALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
t. in Spiritualism, by Christian Beimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Pree. Cloth. Bed Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexandeb, M.A.,
Author of Jfill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at siances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O.,
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENO-
Xt MENA OF SPIBITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st., W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful iuformation for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for l&d; or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENGER AND EPHEMEBIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“ Raphael’s ” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIA¬
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 3§, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to siances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, daily. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S, C.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
rpHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
X oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor j aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary departinent,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.O
Price 3s, 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Post free,
“ RIFTS IN THE VEIL.” „
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Itichmond,
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V, Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham; Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXTV-—The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
" M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Siance in the Sunshine. BytheRev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesf alien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXTX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLHI.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XTTV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academic:
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society fo
the Promotion of Science, Arts’and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O.
iii
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Paet I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Pakt II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glen are—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to. Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
Two Shillings and Sixpence, in Stamps, free by post,
rrHEOSOPHY, and the Higher Life:
JL By George Wyld, M.D. President British Theoso-
phical Society. Trubner, Ludgate Hill, or David Stott,
164, Oxford-street.
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V :—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VIIThe Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modern Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen ,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Braneh
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepenee,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circle
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to ‘ drop about ” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit ircles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated tc
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, cob
sequentlv irreligious age.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 9, 1880,
Accidental Indigestion
.« BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
USE
ENO'S FRUIT SALT
Eyery Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
fo.r any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world,”
C TIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. END’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE END’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for END’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&e., &c., use
END’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de !*• jpaix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. He is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without if
m the house.”—M. Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.— “Aftersuf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was. recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fall to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
OA UTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule it
marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Tries 2s. 9d. and is. 6d.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical anc
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morninc,
Post, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirtj
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florenct
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose .Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song o:
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Ehotographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Der
wishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10; The Lay oi
the Market Gardener.—11.Fast falls the Eventide.’
12. Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion—14. Tlu
Lay. of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. ‘‘Pool
Old Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Eallads, by Anthony
■ Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30. The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says;—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. ... The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. I . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Hamson (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the yerses and Ihe short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. Thi
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay. of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account oi
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.'
Price 6d.; post free 7$d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
rpHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
JL SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association oi
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33.
Museum-street, London, W.C.
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BI RK B E C K B ANK.—
Southampton Buildings, Chancery Lane.
Current Accounts opened according to the usual
practice of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the
minimum monthly balances when not drawn below
£25. No Commission charged for keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
per cent. Interest, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
31st March, 1880.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO . GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
TUNACY LAW REFORM
JU ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W O. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 p.m. Saturdays 1 to 2.
Louisa Lowe and P. T. Blackwell, Esq., Barrister.at-
Law, Hon. Secs.
rTHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
A OR THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post free 6Jd. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and.
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, Loudon, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston j U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of-Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to he given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinion s we shall n ot now enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which ms
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the hook (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS.
Charles Bradlaugh : the Psychology of his Character
By J. T. Markley  13
Form Manifestations in Newcastle  16
Psychography    18
Spiritualism m Vancouver’s Island  18
A Private Seance. By Major General J. W. N.
Maclean        18
The Editorship of “ Public Opinion ”    19
A Puzzle for Metaphysicians. By Harrietts Woods
Baker      ;  19
Paragraph :—Mrs. Tappan-Riohmond  19
Mediums and the Law     23
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
