liEGISIEUisu AS A NEWSrAPEB,
S>ff) J 0 Lr ^ K S I< 01;' f^YCSO^OG^lda^ ^dl^KC5l<.
    ^ mmtirfifr folt| S^minaliam in $xmt  
No. 389. (Vql. XVI.—No. 6.) LONDON : FRIDATY", FEBRUA.RY 6, 1880. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
JAIES lAITBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qriality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS.
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Hook to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
' “ yTHE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
’ Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the eatalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST;
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. 3?. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, G IR G A U M BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free..
‘ -Ordw8 t° “The Proprietors of 'The Theosophist,’” at the above address.
Just Pitbjjshed. Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
'^^S^SHERISi, WITH HUTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
■ PAptain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here thrown together
the results of his t>wn experiences, at the request of his publisher. We agi’ee with Mr. Harrison that the author has treated the subject
eXabtly,in the way in which it is desirable that matters on which the public require information should he treated; and he tells concisely, and
yet fully, many of the secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar
to„the progress of what, ho terms | a just appreciation of the powers and the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and ho
holds, that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also mesmerise far too
many persons. ' As.to .the beneficial results of mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a cure for epilepsy, headache,
toothache, or other ailment; and his final advice to the practitioner is,4 Call it what you like, hut persistently employ it for the benefit of the
sick and stEffenngfe Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume, he may at any rate he credited with having written
an interesting work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
11
Feb. 6, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Just arrived from America,' A NEW BOOK by
EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.,
THE SPIRIT WORLD:
Its Inhabitants, Nature, and Philosophy.
Price 6s. 6d., post free. Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
ALLAN KAKDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
IHE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. fid. Trubner and Co., London.
£IIITISII NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, LONDON, W.C.
INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES
By Mr. THOMAS WALKER, late of Melbourne.
This Association has arranged with Mr. Walker that he should deliver a Series of Lectures
at the rooms of the British National Association of Spiritualists on the following dates, viz.:—
Monday, February 9th, Friday 13th, Friday 20th, Monday 23rd, Friday 27th, and also, if prac¬
ticable, on three other evenings—the dates to be duly announced.
A limited number of Reserved Seats will be set apart for subscribers. Tickets for the
Course, 5s. Admission Free.
A Neio Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
Crown 8vo, pp. 166, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . . His eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mall
Gazette,
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
82 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 8d.
RATIONALE OF SPIRITUALISM.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. fid.,
post free. Cloth edition 6s. fid., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C,
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE
LONDON
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies
prepared to visit patients, Address,
MR. OMERIN,
6. NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER.
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can he built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, ail pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feehle patient. Any
form of mediumship developed. Ciairvoyanoe a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D, YOUNGER,
Moscow House (corner of Moscow and
Hereford-road), Bayswater, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply,
MR, W, EGLINTON, ~
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT,
LONDON, S.W.
Notice of removal to si,
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for ciairvoyanoe and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o'clock daily;
and eight to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps, At home from 12 till 5 o'clock. 173
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
TV/TRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
J_tJL and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m
90, Great Russeli-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
4, Grenville-street, Bruns wick-square.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE,
of the Fox Sisters, of New York Oity, U.S
gives seances at her rooms every Tuesday, Thursday
and Friday, from 3 to 0 p.m. Private evening seances
from 8 to 10; either at house of party or at Mrs
Kane's rooms, must be made by letters sent to Mrs
Kane, at 4, Grenville street, Brunswiok-square. No
private seances wtli be given on the above days adver¬
tised for seances from 3 to 6 p.m.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
\J DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 82, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W,
Price 6d ; post free, 7£d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
rjIHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
X SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals oe the British National
Association op Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
MIND AND MATTER.—a Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penna,
U.S.A.- A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free.
$. ih$ txf the Seiee:ce attd JSthios ef S|xittituaU$m»
No. 389.—Volume sixteen; Number ^ix.
■LONDON. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6th, 1880.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1809.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s, 10d, pei’ annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
British Museum<-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia. Duke of Leuohtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay,
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness,
The Baroness Von Vay, Countess
Wllrmbrand (Austria),
The Hon, Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples,
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart,
Oapt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G-.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S,
C. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists,
Colonel H. S, Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne),
Captain John James,
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York,
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq,, M.D., Edin¬
burgh,
Bobert, S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Bev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D, Jenoken, Esq., M.B.T.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Miss Florence Marryat.
Madame Isabel de Steiger.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden),
Baron Von Dirokinok-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
J. W, Edmonds, Esq., Judge of the
Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H.M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L, F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Scietice.
0. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.B.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq,, M.A.
(Oxon).
B. Friese, Esq., Ph.D,, Breslau.
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq,, J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. 0, Luxmore, Esq,, J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Scl., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. O.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel, E.
J, A, Campbell, Esq., B.A, (Cantab,)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P, Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.B.G.S.
H, G. Atkinson, Esq,, F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has & steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 88, British Museum-street,
London; B, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Boyal, Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne ; British Beading Booms, 2G7, Blviera di Ohiajat
opposite the Villa Nazlonale, Naples; 87, Buo Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad,
Erzherzog, 28, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 81, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 61, East Twelfth street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Ileligio-Pldlosophical
Journal Office, Ohioago ; 319, Koarney-street, San Francisco ; 825, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia ; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application
rpHE SOUL OE THINGS, by William Denton. In this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of diilorent planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the Integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
iHman Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 83, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE MATERIALISATION OF SPIRIT.
In the midst of the materialisation phenomena of
modern Spiritualism, there is occasional evidence of
some intelligence other than that of the medium
being at the root of the manifestations. But the
question we wish to raise is, whether that intelli¬
gence can manifest on the plane of matter to such
an extent as to make the belongings of the spiritual
world visible to normal eyesight.
Throughout the whole range of thirty years’
spiritual manifestations, during which many solid
substances transported by abnormal means during
seances have been given to the observers, we believe
that there is not a single instance in which the
recipient is now able to produce any fabric so pre¬
sented which can be demonstrated not to be of
human manufacture, or any substance (such as locks
of hair) demonstrably not of terrene growth. Yet a
proportion of the manifestations at the seances had a
spiritual origin.
The point of the argument is that there is a
degree of relationship, yet a degree of separation
between spirit and matter, analogous perhaps to
that between oil and water. A layer of oil (spirit)
will float upon and in contact with a layer of water
(matter), and supposing intelligences in water to be
unable to see anything in oil, they might deny the
existence of the latter, although much disturbed at
times by its action. A disturbance in the oil would
agitate the water beneath, but the individual below
being unable to see anything but the water, "would
attribute its abnormal agitation to other than the
real cause.
If it be true that nothing from the world of de¬
parted spirits can be materialised at all, and that
the most enthusiastic Spiritualist of twenty or thirty
years’ standing cannot produce anything from another
world materialised at a stance, it follows that at
spirit circles the governing powers but move, trans¬
port, and transform objects belonging to this world,
to give us some idea about themselves, but are in
reality manifesting to us indirectly by sign and by
symbol. Thus they use the body of the medium,
which they can transform, or abstract from, or free
from bonds ; or they present earthly drapery, which
they have the power of transporting from place to
place, without being able to explain how or why
they do it, their utterances being considerably
limited by the brain-power of the medium.
If these ideas are true, they ought to be promul¬
gated, since they would clear away some of the per¬
plexities of materialisation stances.
62 THE SPI
MATERIALISED SPIRITS WITHOUT A CABINET
BY FLORENCE MARRYAT-LEAN.
Ever since the newspapers have been publishing
their various opinions on the result of Sir George
Sitwell’s stance with Mrs. Corner, I have been trying
to make up my mind whether I am a knave or a
fool. They say that a believer in Spiritualism must
be one or the other, and of course they are right. It
is impossible that the Press could err. I perceive,
however, that not a single paper has given the late
Jules Favre his due, and called him either a knave
or a fool, although in the last public speech he made
he openly avowed his belief in Spiritualism. But
perhaps the opinion of Jules Favre, which at times
wielded a nation, is not worth so much as that of
Sir George Sitwell, who, though I never had the
pleasure of hearing of him before, is doubtless some
old and experienced scientist who is quite capable of
proving that things cannot be, because he has not
found them so. Any way, if to be a knave is to try
and deceive others, I do not think my worst enemy
would accuse me of possessing too large a bump of
secretiveness. Therefore I must conclude that I am
the other thing.
In the character of a fool, therefore, I accepted the
invitation of Mr. Chas. Blackburn, last Tuesday
evening, to be present at a seance held at 33,
Museum-street, by Miss Katie Cook, the sister of
Mrs. Corner. The only other guests were my hus¬
band and General and Mrs. M . We sat round a
small uncovered table, with the gas burning, and
without a cabinet.
Miss Cook had her seat between General M 
and myself, and we made sure of her proximity to
us during the whole seance. We had sat viewing
the usual manifestations for perhaps twenty minutes,
when the materialised form of Lily appeared in the
centre of the table, and spoke to us and kissed us
all in turn. Her face was very small, and she was
only formed to the waist, but her flesh was quite
firm and warm. Whilst Lily was on the table in
full sight of the sitters, and I had my hand upon
Miss Cook’s figure (for I kept passing my hand up
and down from her face to her knees to make sure
it was not only a hand I held), some one. grasped
my chair with both hands, and shook it from
behind, and when I turned and spoke, in a moment
one arm was round my neck, and one round that of
my husband, whilst the voice of my daughter spoke
to us both, and her long hair and soft white dress
swept over our faces and hands. I asked my
daughter for a piece of her hair and dress, and Lily
came round from her side of the table, and cut off a
piece of the dress herself with my husband’s knife,
but said she could not give me the hair until next
time. The two spirits remained with us for perhaps
half an hour or more, and then the power failing
they disappeared. Miss Cook was not regularly
entranced during this sitting. We spoke to her
several times, and she answered us, although she
complained of feeling sick and faint.
Mrs. Fletcher said, in her charming lecture at the
Association Booms last Monday week, that when
the sky was clouded over was the time for each true
heart to testify to its belief; and I am ready on my
oath as a fool to swear that on Tuesday evening last
RITUALIST.
Feb. 6, 1880.
there were two presences, tangible at the same
moment, in the seance room at 33, Museum-street,
that never entered with us by the door. I was the
only woman there beside Miss Cook, and I can swear
Miss Cook never left my side. Yet the other women
bent over us and kissed us, spoke to us, and placed
their bare arms round our necks at one and the same
time. There was a marked difference, too, between
the medium and the materialisations. She is a
slight, small girl, and with no great abundance «f
hair, and both of these spirits had plump faces
and figures, my daughter’s hands especially being
large and firm, and her loose hair nearly down
to her knees. I cannot end this paper without
saying one word with respect to the mediumship of
Mrs. Corner (nte Florence Cook), and to which I
have borne my testimony in print before now. I
have received very much kindness and courtes}r from
that lady, and have had the opportunity of sitting
with her on many occasions, and of proving, by in¬
controvertible tests, the truth of her manifestations.
I have been inside the cabinet with her, and
even herself and the spirit numbers of times.
I have been tied to her with a rope, and the same
phenomena have occurred as when I remained out¬
side. Of course I am not in a position to make
any comment on what took place the other day
with her at the British National Association’s
rooms, but I am in a position to affirm, that
I not only believe, but I Imow her to have been an
honest and trustworthy medium;, and not the testi¬
mony of a million Sir George Sitwells, backed by the
universal Press, would ever make me deny the
evidence of the senses with which the Creator has
gifted me, in common with themselves, although,
not being a knave, I must inevitably be a fool.
February 2nd, 1880.
VISION OF A “DOUBLE.”
BY HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD, J.P.
The following account of the vision of a “ double”
was given me by a niece of mine, who heard it a
week or two before from the lady herself.
January 30, 1880.—Miss H. told me that after
going to bed one night not long ago, and before she
had lain dowrn, she saw a figure in her room, and
thinking it was her maid, she called out, “Why,
Anne, what is the matter ? What do you want ?”
Getting no answer she looked to see who it was, and
then she perceived that it was not Anne; that it
had an old-fashioned frilled night-cap, such as she
wore herself, and a flannel gown over its night-dress,
buttoned at the wrist, and looking at the face atten¬
tively she saw that it was an old face, and finally
that it was her own figure, face, and dress in every
particular. The apparition soon after gradually dis¬
appeared, and Miss H. lay down and went to sleep
without being at all alarmed.
Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London,
February 2nd, 1880.
Mr. Thomas Shorter and Mr. Walker, the Australian trance
medium, will deliver addresses before the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism in a few days’ time. Mr. Walker
has also been engaged to deliver a few trance addresses at 38,
Great Russell-street.
63
Feb. 6, 1880. THE SPIRITUALIST.
TREATMENT OF SPIRITUALISM A TEST OF
CHARACTER*
BY THE REV. W. MIALL.
Delays are said to be dangerous. Like many
other dangerous things they have their uses. With
respect to conviction this is more than ordinarily
obvious. The danger here is that of letting life slip
by without having attained the satisfaction which
conviction brings, or exerted the influence for which
it qualifies. Among the chief of the uses of delay
is the more probable indubitableness of that of which
we are convinced, and its consequent persistent and
lifelong maintenance. Who clutches every seeming
substance may find that he has appropriated the
merest shadow, and become ashamed of his action ;
whilst he who with due deliberation tests an object
before he grasps it, is less likely to be mistaken as
to its qualities, and when he does lay hold of it, may
be expected to do so with a manly grip, not easily
to be released. “ The world comes to him who
waits.” Presuming on the readiness of my Spirit¬
ualist friends to forgive so personal a reference, I
would thus excuse my protracted occupancy of a
painful and perhaps ignominious position, I may
describe myself as suspended from the chevaux de
frise surrounding the domain where I presume my
hearers are comfortably domiciled, and where I would
fain find my own happy home. I may add that it is
on the inner side of the spike-surrounded wall that I
am dangling; and that the representations I have
listened to in this room, notably those of the three
ladies who have favoured us with addresses, go far
to compel me to burst away from my present un¬
dignified position. I only await such personal
experience, as so many assure me they possess, in
order to write myself a fully equipped, as I hope I
should prove a respectable member of the British
National Association of Spiritualists.
Last yeaf I endeavoured to turn my position to
account by employing it as a post of observation. I
will adopt a similar course to-night, noting the treat¬
ment of Spiritualism and the indication of character
thus furnished both by its advocates and by its
opponents.
No doubt, as the nature of the soil of any district
will determine certain results in. all its productions,
so the habit of thought in English society will de¬
termine certain results in all regions of inquiry, all
departments of study. The Spiritualism or anti-
Spiritualism of any given age, like all its other
peculiarities, will be to a great extent the outcome,
the expression, the revelation of the age itself. As,
however, a man will not refuse praise, and should
not resent blame, on the ground that what he does
is but what his nature prompts him to do, so neither
should any section of society, because its qualities
are but the exponent of the period of its existence.
As “ the life is more than meat and the body than
raiment,” so is the mental and moral character than
the entertainment or the rejection of any theory, or
the method which has resulted in either the one or the
other. To discover that former by means of these
latter may be of no inconsiderable service alike to the
individual and to the interests of truth. Such is my
* A papei* read last Monday night before the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists.
II apology for the selection of a subject which lies
I rather in the vicinage of Spiritualism than within
| its borders.
Let me say at once, and as a matter of simple
| justice, that looking out on Spiritualists and anti-
Spiritualists, I see among both parties a goodly
number whose treatment of the subject is all which
! a candid man and lover of all truth would desire.
I They honestly describe the facts of the case as they
I conceive of them, and adduce the arguments which
they deem conclusive. The spirit breathed by them
is manly, rational, admirable, giving sure promise of
the ultimate conversion of whichever side is mis-
| taken, and, of course, of the corresponding extension
I of that which is in the right. Would that the
number of these persons, on whichever side for the
| present arrayed, were greatly increased ! My busi¬
ness is not so much with these, however, as with those
| whose procedure is less satisfactory.
Having respect, first to prevalent habits of thought
| and feeling, and next to the peculiar nature of the
I] subject, one cannot help the d 'priori conclusion that
I among the upholders of Spiritualism will be found
the superficial, the credulous, and the fanatical.
Assuredly subsequent observation does but confirm
this conclusion. A very large proportion, not of the
| talk only, but of the printed effusions of Spiritualists,
is of a kind to suggest to their more intelligent
| brethren the earnest desire to be saved from their
friends. Instances are adduced of spirit-agency, in
the absence of evidence which any child might see
I to be essential to their verification. Of course, also,
| there is an abundance of reasoning which, so to
describe, is a prostitution of the term. In some in-
| stances, the prominence accorded to certain persons
| of obviously small powers and few attainments
| because of Spiritualist proclivities or experiences,
encourages them to rush in “ where angels fear to
| tread,” and to pronounce on subjects of which it is
difficult to believe that they understand even the
elements. Deplorable instances of the utter absence
! of moral principle are also but too common. Very
mortifying must all this be to Spiritualists of another
| type, and very obstructive to the progress of what
| they regard as just conviction. This passing refer¬
ence to these, in many cases, well-meaning but
| certainly ill-doing Spiritualists, is all that I think
desirable.
Passing to those advocates whose various excel-
| lences—mental endowments and equipments, and
(\ high moral character—it were presumption to com-
I mend, and presuming that, as becomes persons of
n their calibre, they invite criticism, if but expressed
)j respectfully and prompted by a desire to understand
(j their position and rightly estimate their conclusions,
j | I point out, in the first place, what seems to me their
(I too frequent substitution of theory for facts. That
they must theorise is indeed inevitable. We all do
\ so, however unconsciously, with respect to all the
| objects and events which engage our thoughts,
u When, however, the facts are in their nature unlike
>| all others, or when our acquaintance with them is
(j peculiar, or new, or more than ordinarily partial and
) | limited, our theories ought to be regarded by us as
(| only tentative. In all such instances our modesty
)l in their announcement will be in proportion to our
64s
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 6, 1880.
claim on attention. Nor will thoughtful and can- |j
did but unconvinced investigators be slow in thus . )
deciding respecting us. “If,” they will say, “all [f
persons of sound mind admit your facts, then it is )
natural that you should proceed to account for them ; |)
but if they do not, to establish them is your first j)
business, which, until it be performed to our satis- |s
faction, all attempts to explain them are premature.” j)
Moreover, wrongly or rightly, the persons addressed j)
conceive that they are in as good a position to 1}
theorise as Spiritualists can be. “Give us facts,” K
they say, “indubitable facts, and leave us to deal j)
with them as best we may. At all events establish ||
your facts; render them beyond dispute before you ; /
expect us to be interested in your reasoning respecting j|
them—the theories which, as you think, they prove
or illustrate.” Besides, where, as in this case, data K
are very diverse, and often apparently contradictory, 1
and all of a kind most unique, and belonging to a
region far removed from the ordinary haunts of men, |)
it is scarcely reasonable to conclude that a perfect, or, K
even so far as it goes, correct theory of them will be |)
arrived at until after prolonged thought, much inter- j\
change of ideas, and, it may be, the abandonment of |)
many a promising suggestion, cherished hope, and |)
confident conclusion. Suppose there were to occur U
in London, within the next three months, some half- h
dozen instances of what is called spirit materialisa- | (
tion. Suppose each instance were witnessed and i)
could be vouched for by, say, only three persons, but |<
those all of undoubted probity and great critical i>
acumen. The readiness of these eighteen persons u
to make declaration in every possible way, and upon ! >
oath before any tribunal, of what themselves had w
witnessed, would do much more both to convince [j
outsiders and to furnish material for a consistent |)
theory of the whole subject than any number of n
arguments where the alleged facts are less satis- k
factorily attested. Does not indulgence in theory, h
when and where facts are the things most loudly k
called for, suggest that doctrinaire Spiritualists j)
would be wise either to become or to give place to j(
detailers of fully certified facts ? j)
Another circumstance akin to the one to which I !<
have thus taken exception is a tendency in some I;
quarters to speak disparagingly of a demand for )|
tests. I am quite aware of the low moral status j)
indicated by the habit of suspicion. I know, also, !|
that much of unwisdom is manifested in the nature j)
of the tests which are sometimes required. Of j(
course, too, I admit that perfect confidence in the |)
medium will often render tests alike superfluous and H
abhorrent. I submit, however, that it is by no means j)
inconsistent with these admissions to describe the \\
demand for what they feel to be sufficient tests on |)
the part of earnest investigators as not only reason- K
able, but as essential to such conviction as ought to |)
satisfy either them or the persons who are desirous jv
of convincing them. I should feel, and I think I j/
ought to feel, it to be gross impertinence for me to j\
assert the occurrence of what multitudes, including :/
men every way superior to myself, declare to be im- K
possible, unless I have subjected it to such scrutiny |)
as my best judgment pronounces to be sufficient.
The general and loose statements that tests are on |?
the whole undesirable, and that phenomena occurring \)
in the absence of tests are the more satisfactory, I
think to be unwise, and indicative of a tendency to
be content with what meets one’s own requirements,
without due regard to the nature of the require¬
ments of other persons. Would it not be more
becoming in Spiritualists carefully to explain what
tests are sufficient, and why they are so, and to urge
the public more carefully to apply them, and by no
means to be content with results obtained in their
absence ?
With some hesitancy, because of the deserved pro¬
minence of those to whom my next remark applies,
I proceed to mention the too slight importance
attached to the adhesion of men of acknowledged
ability as scientific authorities. Not of course that
their concurrence is essential to well-warranted con¬
viction. History and observation alike prove that
they are scarcely less accessible to prejudice than other
people. Many a truth has had to establish itself
without their aid, and even despite their opposition.
Still, it is surely impossible to deny either that their
habits constitute them the most competent of inves¬
tigators, or that their advocacy is to any cause a
greater gain than that of others. Their hostility is
not a proof of the unworthiness of that which they
oppose, but their approval is a most valuable en¬
dorsement of asserted worth. There are some three
or four names, the frequent adduction of which, I can
easily understand, severely taxes the patience of men
who are conscious that their own testimony is unim¬
peachable and ought to be received; and yet I venture
to believe that those three or four names have done
more to secure for Spiritualism in this country the
recognition which it receives, and the interest with
which an increasing number of the more cultured re¬
gard it, than three or four hundred other names. It
seems to me that if duly interested in the assertion,
and verification, and elucidation, and improvement,
and extension of Spiritualism, we should make a
most earnest and persevering appeal to those
whose habit is investigation, and whose aim is avow¬
edly the discovery of whatever truth addresses itself to
the mind through the senses. It were easy to men¬
tion the honoured names of men whose rash utter¬
ances on this subject are wholly inconsistent with the
tenor of their teaching, concerning whom we must
feel that they are surely manly enough to recon¬
sider their deliverances, and who, if further examina¬
tion should avail to convert them, would bring to the
cause an influence which would include well-nigh
all society in its sweep.
I cannot help feeling how large a demand I am
making on the patience and forbearance of my
hearers when I proceed to mention the absence of
due zeal in the interests of Spiritualism as another
matter for animadversion. The idea originates, in my
belief, in the absolutely incomparable importance of
the subject. If Spiritualism be not the most
deplorable of all del usions, its claims transcend those
of every other object and department of thought.
It supplies material on which the loftiest intellectual
powers may worthily be expended, whilst at the same
time it appeals to the tenderest susceptibilities of all
hearts. To feel confident of its truth is to assert the
possession of a talisman, having power to transform
death to life, and to invest life with ineffable glory.
65
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 6, 1880.
Spiritualists are not slow to recognise this fact. But
in proportion to the strength of their conviction on
this point is their self and substance engrossing
devotedness both reasonable and incumbent. I am
far from oblivious of the energy which some have
employed, the costs they have incurred, the sacrifices
to which they have consented. But the very con¬
spicuousness of these instances is evidence of their
infrequency. What self-abnegation in braving the
rude jeers of the coarse-minded, or the ill-concealed
contempt of the more refined ; what violence to
their desire of confining to the privacy of their own
small circle facts pertaining to their personal or
family history; what persistent iteration of those
facts, whether the public will bear or forbear, might
we not expect to be exemplified by all those who,
confident of the reality of Spiritualism, are also
alive to the momentousness of the issues dependent
on its belief. So far as money-force is requisite, one
would imagine that the readiness with which geo¬
graphical explorers, or scientific investigators, or
religious and theological partisans obtain whatever
sum is needed for their purposes, would be far ex¬
ceeded by that to which unwavering conviction on
this subject would incite.
How, I would ask, how comes it to pass that I
meet, on every hand, with persons who say that
having been bestirred to an interest in Spiritualism by
the perusal of its literature, they have striven, in
accordance with accredited instruction, to obtain
phenomena in their own homes ; and having signally
failed to do so, have equally failed to find any intelli¬
gent Spiritualist to take them by the hand, sit in
circle with them, or invite them to a seat in his own
circle, or by some means or other help them to
acquaintance with phenomena, and so on the high
road to conviction ?
Criticism which is felt to be undeserved falls scath-
less. Those to whom what I have now said is
inapplicable will be unhurt by it. “ Let the galled
jade wince.” Should there be any who in their
treatment of this subject have merited these words
of seeming censure, 1 trust they will regard them as
the “ faithful words ” inflicted by a friendly hand,
and that they will allow me yet further to tax their
forbearance by inquiring whether all that of
which I complain is not the result of a
character insufficiently impressed by that mould
of doctrine into which, in these latter days, all
schools of religion and theology have happily a ten¬
dency to regard it as of paramount importance that
all minds should be cast. A full recognition of
human brotherhood would, as I conceive, constitute
definite and confident belief in this subject; a power
impelling to a zeal in its advocacy which would not
be unwise or excessive, however ardent; a zeal
which would feel that reticence were grievous sin ; a
zeal which, with undoubted facts to proclaim, should
knock at all doors, and persist in knocking till the
inmates should be constrained to open; a zeal which,
instead of taking offence at the aloofness or contempt
of the men most skilled in investigation, should for
this evil return the good of patiently perpetuated
appeal : in a word, a zeal which should deem no
effort too determined, no cost too great, if but this
truth, so especially adapted to meet the world’s most
\ urgent present need, might win its way to recognition
) and honour.
{ I may just add here that, as the utmost energy in
< seed-sowing is not incompatible with a patient
) waiting for fruit-gathering, so neither is the utmost
( zeal in the assertion of the facts and claims of
) Spiritualism incompatible with a patient endurance
< | of the delay which may occur, and which it is every
>! way best should occur, between the periods of excited
(I interest and of perfect conviction.
>j I may also say that concern for the general recog-
} j nition of what we believe to be truth is not to be
confounded with mere partisanship. The one is an
(j obligation involved in human brotherhood and
)] required by the law of love to all men; the other is
(j one of the multiform guises of selfishness. If cau-
j tions against the habit of proselytism have any
(I worthy meaning, it must be against this latter habit
/ j that they are directed. The well-known denuncia-
II tion of that spirit which would compass sea and land
H to make one proselyte was uttered by Him of whom
( it is written that He was “ eaten up ” of zeal.
) May I here be permitted to say ^hat it seems to
( me quite possible for Spiritualists to underrate the
) | ability, if not of the public generally, of at least a
(| considerable proportion of that public, to understand
) | or even appreciate the alleged facts of Spiritualism,
(| and of the arguments based upon them ? “Hath not
)! a Jew eyes ? Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimen-
\ | sions, senses, affections, passions ?” Did not Spirit-
? | ualists themselves belong to the general public ? and
{| if they were capable of just conviction and conse-
) | quent conversion, why should they regard it as im-
{| possible in others ? Here, as everywhere, I fancy
) | outspokenness to be attended, if with some ill-conse-
\ | quences, with more than counterbalancing advantage.
) | State, I would say, state the thing as it is, bring out
\ j all its feature’s—its difficulties, its grotesquenesses, its
) j contradictions. If mediums play false, say so. If
\ | certain phenomena are only capable of being ex-
) | plained in a way which to the uninitiated is pro -
\ I vocative of ridicule, and almost certain to elicit
(I the remark that mediums are knaves, and those who
) | credit them are fools, even then I would say so. If
(j freshly obtained evidence invalidates previous con-
; j elusions, say so. If more mature thought and more
I extended observation have the effect of qualifying
) | earlier impressions, say so. Just as I believe that
(j the perception of any truth involves responsibility
|| for its assertion and maintenance, so do I believe
(| that only such presentation of it as reflects as pre-
) | cisely as possible our present knowledge of and ideas
ij respecting it, is compatible with self-respect and
! likely to be promotive of the greatest ultimate good.
I “ The prophet that hath a dream, let him tell a
| dream; and he that hath My word, let him speak
| that word faithfully. What is the chaff to the
I wheat? saith the Lord.” I also believe that as the
i pappus of the dandelion, borne hither and thither
| by the summer breeze, will be caught as if by in-
| stinct by soil which contains the proper elements
| for the germination and growth of the seed, so
i honestly presented truth, passing by the minds
| which are wanting in adaptation to perceive and
I value it, will never fail to approve itself to other
1 minds whose previous history has been a course of
66
THE SPIRITUALIST. Feb. 6, 1880.
preparation for it, even as it has been in course of |)
preparation for them. j \
I have not forgotten that discussion is an object \)
contemplated and desired in these meetings. As K
nothing is more certain to call up reply than sug- j)
gestion of our need of improvement, I may anticipate js
that this desideratum will be forthcoming. To hear |)
our neighbours, and especially those of them who j(
differ from us reflected on, is much less likely to j)
provoke opposition. I do not, therefore, imagine j(
that what I have further to say will give rise to con- j/
troversy. In truth, however, it is that which I had |\
in view in selecting the topic of this address. If I |)
feel that there is somewhat in the language and pro- i (
ceedings of Spiritualists on which animadversion is j<
just, much more do I feel that there is that in the K
treatment of the subject by non-Spiritualists which j?
suggests and. demands remark and censure, nay, n
even rebuke and condemnation. There are, as it k
seems to me, few things more illustrative of the n
prevalence and potency of prejudice than the treat- i)
ment which the subject is accustomed to receive from K
persons whose principles and professions might have )
led us to anticipate a wholly different procedure.
Belonging to various sections of society, and en- |)
gaging in various spheres of enterprise, they K
together form a phalanx, which anything short of j)
the peculiar knowledge to which Spiritualists lay h
claim might well pronounce invulnerable. That k
they can boast of no such quality Spiritualists are >j
well assured. If aught were wanting to make such
assurance doubly sure, it might be found in the j)
recent utterances of many of the best and most \\
popular of the organs of political and social and n
religious life.
Spiritualists may well be encouraged, looking their j>
opponents boldly in the face, to brave the ostracism ! j
to which many would consign them, and to cry with j>
one whose position was similar to theirs,‘Tt moves, \)
it moves.”
The facts for which they contend are getting to be
indisputable. The ball of public conviction has been I)
set rolling; it is gaining in velocity daily, and no | (
opposition can prevent its progress.
In the meantime, and until the period of tide- \(
turn, opponents may be expected to be numerous, j.)
They are so. The difficulty I feel is their classifi- ; (
cation.
Leaving the occupants of high places in the K
domains of philosophy and science to be dealt with !>
by respondents more nearly on a level with them- u
selves, I will confine my reference to persons of less i)
pretension, and with whom one is brought into more ! (
frequent contact.
There are, for instance, those whose boast it is j
that they are guided by common sense, and whose |/
lips are ever pouring some such wise saw as “ Seeing K
is believing.’ With what an air of self-satisfaction j)
they say, “ None of your Spiritualism for us. We H
want something less shadowy, more real; something j/
that we can lay hold of and be quite sure about; j \
and something that does not need the special qualifi- j)
cation either of imagination or of learning in order j l
to its being perceived and appreciated.” Nothing |)
can be further from what these persons suppose to ;
mark their conduct than the habit of doing violence 0
to common sense. Do they not, however, lay them¬
selves open to the charge? Spiritualists say, “Facts
are of daily occurrence, acquaintance with which not
only extends the field of our knowledge, but affects
the views we take of all the ordinary phenomena of
life, and of these facts any sane person may with
patience convince himself. They are not difficult,
recondite, of a kind which only the peculiarly gifted
or especially trained can perceive. It needs only
that the eyes and ears and hands perform their
proper functions, and the evidence of their existence
is complete and irresistible.” The reply which
common sense suggests must surely be, “ I’ll make
experiment of the matter. If these statements be
false, the evidence being of a kind with which I am
especially competent to deal, I can discover its false¬
ness; if true, I cannot fail to perceive its truth.”
For men who profess that their guiding star is
common sense to express contempt and refuse to
make a personal examination of the matter is for
them to belie their own profession, and to make
evident that instead of being par excellence the
votaries of common sense they are the victims of un¬
common prejudice.
(To be continued.)
BONFIRES ON ST. JOHN’S EYE.
The custom of kindling bonfires on St. John's Eve
and St. John’s Day (23rd and 24th June)—a practice
that extensively prevailed in England and Ireland, if
not also in Scotland, till a comparatively recent date
—is supposed by some to have resulted from the
grafting of the observances of the Catholic religion
upon the ancient pagan rites of the natives, and to
perpetuate the worship of Baal, or fire, or the sun,
existing among the pristine Irish populations. The
time of this celebration is the arrival of the sun at
the summer solstice, or the commencement of its
retrograde motion. In 1782; the Rev. Mr. M'Queen,
of Skye, thus records his observations of the practice
of this solemnity :—“ At the house where I was
entertained, it was told to me that we should see at
midnight the most singular sight in Ireland, which
was the lighting of fires in honour of the sun. Ac¬
cordingly, exactly at midnight the fires began to
appear ; and going up to the leads of the house,
which had a widely-extended view, I saw, in a radius
of thirty miles all around, the fires burning on every
eminence which the country afforded. I had a farther
satisfaction in learning from undoubted authority
that the people danced around the fires, and at the
close went through these fires, and made their sons
and daughters, together with their cattle, pass through
the fire; and the whole was concluded with religious
solemnity.” The prevalence of a like practice was
noticed by a traveller in Norway, in the earlier years
of this century, who, on the 24th June—the Festival
of John the Baptist—saw, at Lodingen, in Norway,
on the borders of Lapland, the people flocking from
all quarters to sport the whole night round a blazing
fire, kindled on the top of a neighbouring hill; “ a
practice common about the time of the solstice, to
the whole of the Gothic tribes, being a vestige of
that most ancient worship of the resplendent image
of the divinity, the glorious luminary of day.”—
Diprose’s Scientific Omens.
Feb. 6, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
67
A PREMONITION WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE
OF AN ANAESTHETIC.
The Religio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago) of
January 17th last, quotes the following narrative
from another American paper, the name of which is
not mentioned:—
A sudden death occurred in JBriggsville, Mass., last
Saturday night. Mrs. Phoebe, wife of Joseph
Wetherell, died at her residence, aged 84 years.
Late in the evening she left the room where she had
been sitting with her husband, remarking that she
did not feel just well, and passed to the room adjoin¬
ing. A few minutes later her husband followed and
found her in a chair dead. The old gentleman was
alone with her in the house and hastened to arouse
some of the neighbours. A remarkable coincidence
is told in connection with this death. The son of
the deceased, Mr. Joseph L. Wetherell, was, at the
time of his mother’s death, at the house of Mr. W. H.
Kent, a mile and a half distant, with others watching
by the bedside of Mrs. Kent, who is very low, and who
for the greater part of the time is under the influence
of morphine. Not many minutes from the exact
time of Mrs. Wetherell’s death, the sick lady raised
herself, and addressing Mr. Wetherell, insisted that
something awful, something terrible, had happened.
Mr. Wetherell tried to quiet her, but she persisted in
the remark, and added “ pretty soon you will know
all about it.” A little later, a neighbour to Mr.
Joseph Wetherell, who had come to inform the son of
his mother’s death, knocked at the door, at which the
sick lady started and exclaimed, “ There; didn’t I tell
you ; now you will know.” This incident is made a
little more impressive by the announcement that the
Wetherells are believers in Spiritualism.
HEALING BY BREATHING, AND BY MESMERISED
WATER.
These mysterious methods of cure seem to be of
unknown antiquity, and to have been used from the
earliest times of which we have any records by the
magicians, theurgists, therapeuts, and priests in the
East, all of whom appear to have been well ac¬
quainted with what we, in our ignorance of the laws
of nature and spirit, call occult powers.
In the veiy interesting work of Professor Yambery,
of Pesth, The Journey of the False Dervish, he
describes himself, when disguised as a dervish, making
use of the cure by breathing, as practised by them,
although he himself did not believe in its efficacy ;
but did so only to carry out his assumed rdle of a
dervish. When in Turkestan (peopled by a branch
of the descendants of Ham, the race par excellence
for occult and magic practices, and allied in blood to
the Akkadians of Chaldea and the ancient Egyptians)
many sick people came to him to be cured by what
is there called the “ Nefes,” or “ Nef,” that is, the
ff sacred breath.” His method of cure was to touch
the diseased part with his finger, and then to breathe
for a considerable time with a deep breath on it;
and he alleges that his patients were either generally
cured or greatly relieved, and he probably correctly
attributes the cure to their strong faith. No doubt
faith and will act mesmerically, and attract occult
(| means of cure which are not yet rightly under-
j! stood.
But this word Nefes is Nef, used by the Turko-
(| mans for the “ Sacred Breath,” Spirit, or Ghost, is
{] Egyptian god Kneph,* or Nef, means The Spirit,
)| or breath, and he was specially the god of the
(j spiritual life or breath, the god of the internal
) | breathing.
This mode of cure by the sacred breath was, there-
)| fore, appropriately called by these Turanian races by
\j the same name as the great spiritual God of old
>; Egypt; that means of cure probably being originally
j| practised in Egypt by the priests of Kneph in his
> i temples, as well as in Chaldea by the priests of the
sj corresponding Chaldean god.
According to Oppel, the god Knef was one of the
\ i four gods included in the quaternity of Amun, “ the
)i unknown God,” viz. :—
1st. Knef, or Spirit, the primal spiritual force of the universe.
2nd. Net, the goddess Matter (hence Natura), the original
fi molecular stuff of which all things were formed.
3rd. Sebek, or Time— Eternity.
) i 4th. Pascht, the goddess of infinite Space.
These four were the forms, emanations, or essences
)| under which the hidden unconditioned Amun mani-
)! fested himself to the senses of man in the phenomenal
d earth world.
This ancient quaternary system explains why the
<| number 4 was sacred in ancient times, as being sym-
>j bolic of perfection—of God, who manifested Himself
<1 by four emanations. Hence, also, so many old names
(| of God are expressed by four letters ; A 11 h (Allah)
n are said by the dervishes to be the four mystical
) | letters expressing the divine essence.
The splendid temple of Esneh was dedicated to
{I this Knef as the “ Creative spirit of the Universe,
n the vital principle of the divine essence, and the
)\ support of all the worlds.”—(See “LEgypt]* par
(I Champolli on—Figeac)
Knef, the Spirit-God, filled the precise place in
(j Egyptian theology that the Holy Ghost (sacred
Breath or Spirit) does in our Christian system; for
(j in the temple of Ombos is a most curious Mammisi
)| or birth chamber, in which are a series of bas-reliefs
(i representing an annunciation scene, and the birth of
>| the Founder of the temple, Amenophis-Memnon.
! In it the god Thoth (the Scribe and Messenger of
Amun) announces to the Queen Tmauhemoa, just as
(| Gabriel does to Mary, that Amun the Generator had
>| granted her a son; the Queen is represented as
(I enceinte, and as being led by Knef and Hathor
}! (Venus) into the birth chamber, where she gives
birth to Amenophis. Divine genii ranged round
)| the bed raise up the symbol of life, called by some
\| the Crux ansata, although it is not a cross, but is
)j really a knot, towards the new-born infant. Who
\| can doubt that the Scripture symbolism (written in
I j Alexandria) of the annunciation by Gabriel, holding
i the magic staff towards the Virgin, and the genera-
| tive action of the Holy Spirit (the life breather), has
| been derived from this earlier Egyptian symbolism ?
I * With this Egyptian Knef or Nef compare the Greek Kve^os-Neipos, Latin
Nebula, German Nebel, all meaning mist, vapour, cloud. In early pre-scientiflc
times clouds, from their resemblance to human breath, were supposed to be
1 caused by the breath of gods, particularly the evil dark gods or demons.
68
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 6, 1880.
Knef was the male generative principle of the
universe, as Neith, a form of Isis, was the female.—
(See Champollion—Figeac.)
Many of the legends as well as the “ myriad names ”
of Isis have passed over to the Christian Mary, the
Mother of God.
A similar birth chamber yet exists with the repre¬
sentation of Cleopatra giving birth to Cassation,
the son of Julius Caesar, with the same symbolism.
Knef was also the god. who presided over and in¬
spired the celebrated oracle of Amun-Knef in the
Oasis; and naturally so, as he was the spirit or
inspiriting God.
Knef is sometimes represented as a serpent (the
Agatho daimon of the Greeks) breathing on water,
symbolising the breathing of life into the material
creation. The same idea as that of the “ Spirit mov¬
ing and brooding over the face of the water,” the
primeval substance out of which all things arose.
Knef represented in Egypt that “ Comforter ” or
Spiritual force foretold by the inspired Jesus, as to
come in the future, and which is now slowly but
surely working a silent revolution in the beliefs of
the present materialistic age.
It is curious to find that the Chaldean god Ea, the
divine intelligence which breathes through the uni¬
verse, the Master of the eternal secrets, the god who
presides over all theurgic action, is, like Knef, one of
the first emanations of the supreme unmanifested
god, Ilou; thus,
Ilou, tlie absolute-hidden-unconditioned god.
Anou—Ea—Bel, the first triad or emanation pro-
Chaos & Time'—Spirit) Demiourgos, ceeding from Ilou.
Logos J Creator of
organic world.
In the Cuneiform tablets a process of cure is
mentioned by means of this god Ea, but through the
mediation of his son Silik-Moulou-Khi, another
means of cure used was breathing, prayer, and
mesmerised water. It is curious that Ea does not
act directly, but is represented as giving the secret
for the cure to his son, who is the personally officiating
god, as in the following form of incantation for a
cure of a disease of the head (from the description,
probably eczema), taken from one of the tablets :—
“Silik-Moulou-Khi has assisted him; he has gone
to the abode of his father, Ea, and has said to him,
‘ My father, this disease of the head has issued from
the hills, give thou the remedy/ Ea answers: ‘ My
son, you do not know the remedy; let me teach it to
you; what I know you know. Come, my son Silik-
Moulou-Khi, take a vessel, draw water from the sur¬
face of the river, place your lips upon this water,
with thy sublime breath make it shine with purity,
assist man, the son of his god, envelop his head, let
the disease of his head depart, let the disease be
dissipated like the nocturnal dew. May the precept
of Ea cure him! May Daoknia cure him (the wife
of Ea)! May Silik-Moulou-Khi, the eldest son of
the ocean, make the image that will cure f ”—(See
La Magie chez les Chaldfans, par F. Lenormant,
page 21.)
The mode of cure was partly by surface water of
the Euphrates, that is, water which has been mes¬
merised by the strong sun of Mesopotamia, and then
again by the breath of the priest or magician, as
acting for and in the name of the god Ea and his
son.
This is probably one of the earliest cures on record
by mesmerised water and breathing. It is remark¬
able that in all ancient systems of cure dependence
upon the Deity was acknowledged, and religion
brought in as a necessary part of the cure. Medicine
was not treated specifically or looked at only from a
materialistic point of view as now, but synthetically,
as a part of philosophy, it being recognised that the
soul was ill as well as the body.
In another incantation, the sun is described as the
curer of the same disease of the head.
“ Do thou (Sun) in thy coming cure the disease of
his head ; thou who bringest peace, act thus, cure his
disease. Let man, the son of his God, place before
thee his affliction and his fear ; appease his malady.
0 Sun, at the elevation of my hands, come to my
appeal, eat the aliment, absorb his victim, strengthen
his hand; may he, by thy order, be delivered from
his affliction, and may his fear be removed.”
There is nothing new; Dr. Babbitts’ cure by the
sun’s rays was probably practised in Chaldea 3,000
years ago; in Greece,also, Apollo was the great thera¬
peutic god.
Cures by means of saliva are also mentioned in
these early brick-books of Chaldea; and Jesus, the
great Healer and Saviour, is stated to have cured by
all these means—by the sacred breath, by the laying
on of hands, and with saliva. It seems very remark¬
able that His professed followers laugh at the possi¬
bility of cures being effected by such means, as being
contrary to the laws of nature. It is truly wonder¬
ful how the majority of Christians utterly cast aside
the peculiar teachings of Jesus, quietly passing
through life believing themselves to be followers of
Jesus, without paying the slightest attention to so
many of His precepts and practices. Lessing, in the
last century, exposed this falling away and incon¬
sistency of the Christian Churches; and Ruskin and
the Spiritualists are doing the same thing now, and
getting well laughed at by Church-Christians for their
pains. The emperor Vespasian, walking in Alexan¬
dria, was requested by a blind man to spit on his
eyelids, as the god Serapis had told him that he
would be cured by that means. It was said that the
cure was effected. An early example this of curing
by the king’s touch.
The devolution of authority in the old cures from
the God to the Son of the God is very curious; the
same thing occurs in the Egyptian system with
regard to Chous, the great Healer; and we find the
same thing in the Christian theology, where it is
stated that “the Father has committed all things
unto the Son.” It would appear that this idea can
be traced back to the early Spiritualism of Chaldea,
and probably Egypt.
But perhaps the most interesting case of a cure by
occult means is that of the Princess Bint-Reschit,
which is engraved on an Egyptian stele of the thir¬
teenth century B.C., and which has been translated—
first by Dr. Birch, and afterwards by the celebrated
Egyptologist, the Viscount de Rougd.
This princess, whose name means the “ Daughter
of Joy,” was the younger sister of the Queen of
the Pharaoh Ramses-Meri-Amun of the XXth
69
Feb. 6, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dynasty, and was an Asiatic (probably a Semitic)
princess of Bachtan. Being ill in Bachtan, the in¬
scription records the sending, at her request, from
Egypt to Bachtan (Egypt being renowned for its
medical skill), an embassy, accompanying the god
Chous* (the great healing god), consisting of priests
and " Doctors of the Mysteries.”
On examination of the princess, she was declared
to be possessed by an evil spirit, and the cure, from
the description given, appears to have been effected
by mesmerism and by breathing; the number of
passes made appears to have been four—the mystic
number.—(See Etude sar line Stele J&gyptienne,
par M. le Vicomte le de Rougd. Paris, 1858.)
At page 78 of this most interesting study, the
physicians sent with Chous are described in the Latin
translation as “Doctores arcanorum,” "Doctors of
the Mysteries; ” and one specially chosen, after due
inquiry, to go on this expedition, is described as a
" Master of skilful fingers.” This I should think points
to his having been chosen as being an eminent mes¬
merist.
In a tablet of Thotmes III., Amen-Ra says : " My
hands touch thy limbs behind with delicious life.”
The mesmeric forces were known in Egypt as life.
Christian baptism rites in Egypt are curious as
probably preserving pre-Christian ideas: in them the
priest breathes three times (three is also a sacred
Egyptian number) into the basin, in order to make
the water holy; then makes three crosses on the
child’s forehead; adjures the demons to quit it; then
makes three crosses with oil; then breathes again
three times in the form of a cross, annoints the whole
body with oil, and then plunges it into the water.
In the interesting work of J. P. Brown, The
Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, it is stated (at
page 85) that the dervishes are often seen manipulat¬
ing the faces, heads, shoulders, and arms of invalids,
and after praying over them, to blow in their faces,
and gently breathe upon the limbs affected. The in¬
vocation of the name of Allah has, it is supposed,
in such cases sanctified the breathe of the dervish,
and enabled him to produce a salutary effect upon
the sufferer.
At page 107, Brown states the belief that the
frequent invocation of the Zikti (the name of God)
renders the breath of man additionally holy, and
gives it a spiritual or superhuman power.
He also states that it is believed that the Neffes
or Nef is an original emanation from the Creator,
and which, after a serious and impressional invoca¬
tion of Him, becomes holy.
The writings of the dervishes, particularly those
of the Sufi sect, which is an outcome of the older
Brahmanic and Zoroastrian theories incorporated
into Islam, are full of the most advanced spiritual¬
istic doctrines. The dervishes are very well ac¬
quainted with the phenomena of the " Double,” or
" Doppelganger,” which condition is called by them
“ Insila,” in which they allege that the soul leaves
the body and wanders about without regard to time
or space.
The works of Sheikh Muhee ed Deen el Arabee
are especially full of spiritual doctrines. He teaches
» Chous was the third person of the great Theban triad: Amun, the Hindu
Father; Maut, the Mother; and Chous, the Son.
that the earth was inhabited by many other species
of human beings previous to the creation of Adam
and Eve, each of various degrees of stature and
spiritual faculties; that the spirits of mankind after
death continue to people the vast space which
surrounds the earth; that some persons of a high
spiritual power are able to behold these spirits, and
that a superior spiritual faculty possesses power over
an inferior one; that visions are not connected with
the ordinary senses of the body, but are wholly
spiritual, and are often connected with the soul
leaving the body, whilst ordinary dreams are but an
effect of the senses.
Another dervish, Ibn Isay, had also very advanced
views on occult subjects. He points out the way by
which, in thinking of any person, you can make his
soul appear to you; and seems to have been ac¬
quainted with mesmeric biological phenomena, such
as the complete subjection of the sensitive to the will
of the mesmeriser. He also treats largely of fascina¬
tion, which he describes in connection with mystical
numbers, and a curious process of breathing upon an
imaginary form of the person to be fascinated. His
followers have what they call mystic circles, which
appear to be very like spiritual circles for materiali¬
sations. When a follower has attained to what is
called the " Circle of the Spirit ” he can bewitch men
and lovers; on reaching that of the mind, he can
bewitch aged persons; in the secret circle he can
enchant the learned and poets; in the circle of the
Jelal (the name of the Deity), these powers are used
for purposes of revenge; in that of the Jemal
(beauty), for purposes of kindness. It is said that
this sheikh, by reciting certain incantations, and by
gazing steadily at certain mystical numbers, could
produce the vision of any person desired, and that
no one could withstand the ardour of his gaze; and
that he could hold any one completely under his
control. He appears to have been a powerful mes¬
meriser and clairvoyant.
It is curious to find from this work that the
dervishes most celebrated for occult knowledge and
practices come from India, showing the immense
influence of the Yoga beliefs of that country.
CURIOUS VISION OF A TURKOMAN IMMEDIATELY BEFORE
ACQUIRING THE POETIC FACULTY.
Yambery, in the work already mentioned (page
294), gives an interesting account of Makhdumkali,
a celebrated Turkoman poet, who died about ninety
years ago, and who evidently was a trance medium
and seer of symbolic visions.
He was not an educated man, never even having
visited the only seats of learning in that part of the
world—Khiva and Bokhara. One day he suddenly
became entranced, and in a vision, or perhaps in the
trance state, his soul was carried to Mecca, into the
hall of council where Mohammed the Prophet and
the first khalifes (followers) were sitting. Struck
with awe, he cast a timid look upon the august
assembly, whereupon Omar, the patron of the
Turkoman, signed to him to approach, which he did;
and then the Prophet touched him on the forehead,
and gave him his benediction, upon which he awoke
from the trance, dream, or vision. Immediately after
this vision he suddenly became a poet of a very high
70  THE SPIRITUALIST. Feb. 6, 1880.
order, and the learned of these parts place his poetic | (j
productions in the first rank of the efforts of the j/j
human mind. From this time also, although un- |\!
educated, he is said to have acquired intuitively, by a
divine inspiration, a knowledge of all the sciences, |(|
and the contents of books.
A similar power was claimed by the ascetics of (j
India, when they had reached a high stage of ecstatic |>|
enlightenment or lucidity; as in the Yoga of Patan- |(j
jali, when the Yogin, by certain ascetic exercises, i)j
attains to transcendental powers (viblmti) by means | (i
of “Sanyama,” or perfect concentration of mind, m
and then has knowledge of past, present, and future jy
things, and a knowledge of the universal sciences, jn
(See “Bhagavad Geeta” by Cockburn Thomson, m
Introduction, page 87.)
It would be very interesting if any of the members j (j
of the Theosophic Society in London or Bombay |)|
would come out from their self-imposed secrecy, and hi
give satisfactory evidence of these powers being in in
possession of any Hindoo or other person at present, n
This would be a striking proof of the great powers i < ]
of the human mind or spirit, when relieved from the I )|
gross burden of matter, by occult powers and m
practices. A. J. C.
Lucerne, January 24,1880.
HOW MY WETTING MEDIUMSHIP BEGAN*
: \ j
BY THE BARONESS ADELMA VON VAY (COUNTESS WUEMBRAND) . I (
In the autumn of the year 1865 my husband and n
I made the acquaintance of a mesmerist, Ur. G , j/j
who told us that he detected the faculty of spirit- m
sight phrenologically impressed upon my forehead, m
and moreover advised me to try for automatic j(
writing. I turned aside from such with contempt, it jn
being opposed to the tenets of my Roman Catholic i/l
creed. From childhood I had been counselled to j/j
avoid all superstition, and to preserve a clear and >
healthy judgment. This principle I would not wish j(i
to depart from now.
However, Ur. G would not let us rest. He j/j
attempted to mesmerise me, and maintained that I jsj
should feel disposed to sleep; but he produced not j/i
the slightest effect, neither did the glass of mes- j(j
merised water which I drank. The doctor then ex- j/j
plained that I was possessed of great mesmeric power j \ j
myself, being both a seeing and a writing medium ; i)j
and he besought me to develop these gifts, if only j(j
for the benefit of my health. Without being really 1 \!
ill, my constitution was at that time very deli- j>!
cate, and I was subject to a species of painful jn
rheumatism.
I had almost forgotten the advice of Ur. G , jjj
when one day, whilst suffering from an attack of jjj
rheumatism, my husband jestingly remarked:
“Suppose we resort to the healing properties of jjj
automatic writing ? ”
No sooner said than done. I took a pencil in my jjj
hand,.and immediately my arm felt as though an j(i
electric current were passing through it. My hand j j j
was moved to and fro, and then wrote in huge i (j
characters:—
3 Translated by Caroline Cotner from Studien-iiber die Geisterwelt, I' i
“I am Thomas, your tutelary genius. Continue
the writing: it will do you good Heinrich—Coffin
—1867 will be a sad year for you Napoleon’s
downfall 1870.”
Somewhat exhausted, though much relieved, my
husband and I steadily deciphered the writing, not
one word of which was previously known to me.
With sorrow I bear testimony to the truth of the
statement concerning Heinrich, my husband’s brother,
who died in 1867 after great suffering.
We then felt very uncomfortable and gloomy: the
weird and supernatural were disagreeable to us both,
and I retired to rest fully determined to have
nothing more to do with this mesmeric writing, as I
called it.
We had no knowledge of Spiritualism, nor of the
existence of so many books on that subject. Although
mysticism had always possessed a charm for me, yet
in the word Geister (ghosts, spirits) there was some¬
thing uncanny and awful. I then recalled how, as a
child of twelve years, I, with the assistance of my
younger sister, had “ turned ” a small table and
caused it to cut capers round the room, until this
pastime was forbidden us, and I was taught to regard
“ table-turning ” as superstitious and ridiculous.
Referring to our diary I can now trace the gradual
development of the mediumship of my husband and
myself. Inexperienced as we were at the com¬
mencement we both cherished a steadfast faith in
the goodness of God. Although the writing was
somewhat weird yet it opened up a narrow way into
a vast expanse for me, as from childhood I had ever
felt sympathy for the poor suffering souls.
I soon became deeply attached to the spirits who
wrote through my hand, more especially so as I dis¬
covered that many yearned for sympathy and help.
The Roman Catholic motto, “ Comfort the poor
distressed souls,” had been my constant companion
and guide from my sixteenth year: and now 1 found
in the utterances and entreaties of these spirits con¬
firmation of that which I had read in the aforesaid
book.
Certainly this automatic writing (without thought
or effort on my part) was singular. It was as though
somebody narrated a story, and I listened to it; the
movement of the arm as well as the writing was quite
apart from my will or influence.
The spirit Thomas, who first wrote through me,
was a friend of my childhood, a talented young man,
and universally beloved ; he died at the early age of
nineteen. The night of his death I had a remarkable
dream. It was that he came to me and said in a sor¬
rowful tone:
“ Farewell, I must go away now. Pray for me ; I
always cherished a strong affection for you.”
I begged him to stay, but he grew very pale and
then vanished. I wept so violently in my sleep that I
awoke. Within three weeks we received intelligence
of his decease. The night of my dream he passed
away.
The Lunacy Law Keform Association has just opened a
branch office at 79, Chancery-lane, E.C., in addition to the old
office at 64, Berners street, W. Mrs. Lowe and Mr. P. T.
Blackwell (barrister) are honorary secretaries, and Dr. Carter
Blake, secretary.
Feb. 6, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
71
THE NATURE OF ELECTRICITY.
A few evenings ago Mr. C. F. Yarley, F.R.S.,
delivered a lecture at the Town Hall, Bexley-heath,
Kent, on electricity, in the course of which he said
that his object was to show that electricity had an
independent existence, like other forms of matter,
and that the various phenomena were due not so
much to electricity itself as to the force which had been
put into it by means of chemical action. Electricity
was rather a component of matter than merely a mo¬
tion of its molecules. Heat was a vibration of the
molecules of matter. Electricity, in passing through
a circuit, possessed the same amount of power at
each end. This power was shown by its ability to
produce heat at a distance of uniform amount, and
also by its power of producing an equivalent amount
of decomposition at any part of the circuit. This
proved that the electricity was not consumed, and
the lecturer stated that he had never found any
indication that electricity could be decomposed into
any other force, as heat and light could be; there¬
fore it possessed an individuality as much as
platinum, gold, or silver. Numerous experiments
were made, and these simply showed that the
phenomena were produced by the power which
electricity was made to carry. Mr. Yarley performed
many interesting experiments, and concluded his
lecture by stating that a telegraph engineer had to
reverse the order of visible things. The atmosphere
through which we move, and do not feel unless a
strong wind is blowing, is opaque to electricity, and
is about the best known insulator. If a man were
to try to walk through an iron wall, such as an iron¬
clad vessel, he would find it impossible to move; but
an electric current which would not pass through the
atmosphere will pass with great facility through a
metal vessel. Therefore the telegraph engineer,
when working out his problems, had to consider the
atmosphere as a solid rock, and the telegraph wire as
a hole through that rock through which electricity
can be passed, and so communicate intelligence from
one end to the other.
Mr. Yarley was frequently applauded during his
lecture, and at the conclusion a cordial vote of thanks,
on the motion of the vicar, the Rev. G. Graham, was
awarded to him.
[Great freedom i? giren to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diame¬
trically opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communica¬
tions cannot be returned ; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given
to letters which are not anonymous.']
)
)
j
)
)
\
A PROPHETIC DREAM. | >
Sir,—As a reader of your valuable paper, I think it may be of
some interest to your readers if I describe a dream I had before ! (
I knew what Spiritualism was.
In the year 1868 I was steward aboard the brig Nathaniel, be- i)
longiug to Colchester, under the command of Captain Plane ; we j)
were bound from Shields with a cargo of coal to Caen, in France. j(
We sailed from Shields on the 1st of December, having a fair i(
wind and fine weather as far as Ramsgate, where on the 8th of ij
December both wind and weather changed, making us and some j)
other ships that were in our company let go our anchors, about j(
three miles from land, to wait for a fair wind. At eight o’clock that K
evening our captain gave an order for two men to keep the anchor K
watch, and told the rest of us to go below to our hammocks, ii
I had slept about two hours, when I dreamt that a gale u
sprang up which made us and all the ships around us drag their
anchors, and in the offing I saw a ship driven before the snow-
squall right in the track of our ship. I kept watching this ship
in my dream coming nearer and nearer until it came into us, with
a crash, getting foul of our rigging and then swinging alongside.
That ship being light, and ours loaded, the sea sometimes lifted
it up like a nutshell, and then brought it down on top of us,
breaking our ship into match-wood. Amid all the crashing and
roaring of sea and wind I heard our captain give the order for
two men to go and cut the foresail adrift, and the rest to slip the
anchor, if possible, so that we could run the ship ashore and save
ourselves. I was one who went up to cut The foresail adrift, but
before we got on the yard I saw that the two ships were clear of
each other, and that we were sinking. I, with horror, shouted
to the man who went up with me to hurry down into the long¬
boat and save himself. When we got down, the rest of our men
made for the boat also. We all entered it in safety, and a sea
which came over our sinking ship took us clear of her. The
wind being fair for Ramsgate, we rode into the harbour without
any oars.
On seeing all this in my dream I became alarmed, and was
thereby aroused from my sleep. With one bound I sprang out
of my hammock on to my box, dressed myself, took the best
clothes I had and made them into a bundle, ready for a jump.
Two hours after my dream all that I had seen took place in
reality. Albert Price.
70, Adelaide-street, South Shields, Durham.
DR. MONCK.
Sir,—The committee who have charge of Dr. Monck’s testi¬
monial will feel obliged if you will acknowledge specially a
donation of £5 from Percy Windham, Esq., which has been
omitted in their former acknowledgments.
As many friends are collecting small sums together in the
provinces, and we have promises from abroad, the list will
remain open a short time longer, and we shall ask your courtesy
for further acknowledgments.
There are many friends still out of the list who will now have
an opportunity of assisting Dr. Monck, and thereby facilitating
the cause of science, by securing raediumship independent of
cabinets, curtains, or the state of the light.
Morell Theobald, Son. Sec.
62, Granville-park, Feb. 3,1880.
Never give way to melancholy; nothing encroaches more; I
fight against it vigorously. One great remedy is to take short
views of life. Are you happy now? Are you likely to remain
so till this evening ? or next week ? or next month ? or next
year? Then why destroy present happiness by distant misery
which may never come at all, or you may never live to see it ? for
every substantial grief has twenty shadows, and most of them
shadows of your own making.—Sydney Smith.
Never teach false morality. How exquisitely absurd it is to
tell girls that beauty is of no value—dress of no use ! Beauty is
of value; her .whole prospects and happiness in life may
often depend on a new gown or a becoming bonnet, and if she
has five grains of common sense she will find it out. The great
thing is to teach her their just value, and that there must be
something better under the bonnet than a pretty face for real
happiness. But never sacrifice truth.—Sydney Smith.
The Last Words of the Dying.—It is probably natural
that at the last the scenes which have made the strongest im¬
pressions in life should be recalled by memory. The old
mountaineer, when he comes to die, with his last whisper, says
his snow shoes are lost; with the stage driver he is “ on a
down grade, and cannot reach the brake; ’’ the miner cannot
get to the air pipe ; the sailor says, “ eight bells have sounded
and the gambler plays his last trump. A little girl died here a
few years ago, and, as her mother held her wrist and noted the
fainting and flickering pulse, a smile came to the wan face, and
the chUd whispered, “ There’s no more desert here, mamma, but
all the world is full of beautiful flowers.” A moment later the
smile became transfixed. In an Eastern City not long ago a
sister of charity was dying, and at last from a stupor she
opened her eyes and said, “It is strange; every kind word
that I have spoken in life, every tear that I have shed, has
become a living flower around me, and they bring to my senses
an incense ineflable.,,—From the Virginia (Nev.) Enterprise.
72
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 6, 1880.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late ~vVm. GreSORY, M.D., F.B.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edinburgh j
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free
CONTENTS
CHAPTEB. I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTEB II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti- j)
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards ! (.
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep. j {
CHAPTEB III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions— i;
Danger of Bash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage— j)
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Beading—Sources of Error—Medical :)
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of I \
a Peculiar Force or Influence. : (
|)
CHAPTEB IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes— j)
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and : >
Clairvoyance in Begard to Absent Persons—Betrovision—Introvision. !)
CHAPTEB V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre- \)
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents !)
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of I)
It—Spontaneous Betrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of j)
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain. • \
CHAPTEB VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and i)
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious j)
or Waking State—Dr. Darling's Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method I >
and its Besults—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator— |)
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of j(
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied. -1 1(
CHAPTEB VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro- i)
duced at Will by the Subjects—Ool. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not j)
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s ! \
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World. j\
CHAPTEB VIII.—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of i /
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions— I)
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do !)
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism I \
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele- j\
graph Founded on It. j(
CHAPTEB IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame— I)
Besearches of Beichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of j \
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic j)
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water j (
• - Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. — j (
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &e., explained by Mes- j)
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking |)
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds. | >
CHAPTEB X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested I (
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the j (
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Charaeteis—Difficulties of the ; (
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought- |)
Beading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by 1)
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &e., j >
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the j)
Future. j (
CHAPTEB XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits !)
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments— j)
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student— {>
Opposition to be Expected i \
CHAPTEB XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State— I)
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi- i)
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments— I;
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen- I)
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking I \
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian ; (
Magic. K
CHAPTEB XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of i)
Nine Persons Becently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep— i \
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep i (
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep— i (
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of i (
Betrovision. i /
CHAPTEB XIV:— Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance— : \
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—^Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases— K
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases. ■ . I (
CHAPTEE XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases —Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe- }i
nomena—Apparitions—^Predictions |)
CHAPTEB XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Bemarks i(
and Summary. ; if
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 88, British Museum-street, London. \)
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Seieiue:, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr,
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palm? of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Feb. 6, 1880.
ill
THE SPIRITUALIST
Cloth, small Svo, price 3s,
OTHER.WOBLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers ,No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
T71ALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
in Spiritualism, by Christian Beimers. One
Shilling.
E, W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.B S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for IJd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN-
GER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold tbe great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
of the current year, even to the present Afghan War 1
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
British national associa
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to siances, Sea., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
TDARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S. C.,’’ care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
Ue la Pepiniere, Paris.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, <fcc., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 83, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 3s. 6d, Imperial Svo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of .articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon)," and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death." Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Riohmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VIL—An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta."
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To Yon who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon."
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. 3.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. O Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon."
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs : in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLlV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
i XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 83, British
Museum-street London, W.C
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown Svo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth,
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS,
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality-
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III,—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium -
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? — Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier's Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship —Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr H. M. Dunphy,- Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby,
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis •— Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—^Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The ^Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum street, London, W.C.
Price 5s, 6d.
Inspirational Poetry,
“POEMS FIIOM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
PART II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie's Spirit Song”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C.
REYUE SPIRITE, Journal deludes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payaVle to
Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 6, 1880.
Accidental Indigestion.
BETOBE AND AFTER THE
Christmas Pudding,
USE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the 'World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S ERTJIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Rip® Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression,"Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
Stimulants and insufficient
AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the 'liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SaLT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
1 he Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S EMIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
i\ FRUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
Fagged, weary, ' and worn
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“14, Ruedela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, whichhe did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENG'S FRUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Pest Office, Barrasford.”
“ QUCCESS IN LIFE.”—A new in-
IO vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked '' ENO’S FRUIT SALT.'' Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by 'all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS
Hatcham, London, S.E.
TESTIMONIAL for Dr. MONCK.
APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS.
Dear Friends,
Fully sensible that too many appeals have been
made on behalf of Mediums, we feel that Dr. Monck’s
case presents one for a special claim upon the gene¬
rosity of Spiritualists.
As one of the Pioneers of our belief, he has not only
spent his private means, but also his very life; for in
furthering research by means of the marvellous
materialisations in the light through his mediumship,
his health, already exhausted by bitter persecution,
has completely given way.
For nearly two years he has been cared for by kind
friends, but it is now his desire to return to the work
so dear to him as soon as his health permits, and
especially is it his wish to work as an unpaid
medium, to do which some temporary help is now
needed.
The undersigned earnestly appeal to all Spiritualists
to assist Dr. Monck in his present necessity, and to
subscribe liberally to the Testimonial now under their
care.
One friend has offered to give £20 if £80 mors is
subscribed in sums of £10 and £5 each. We think this
challenge should be accepted, but we hope small sums
will not be withheld.
W. P. Adshead, Belper.
Dr. Brown, Burnley.
James Burns, Southampton-row.
Alexander Oalder, 1, Hereford-square, S.W,
Prof. R. Friese, Breslau.
A. J. Cranstoun, Meggen, Lucerne.
J. H. Gledstanes, Merignac.
Baron Dirckinck Holmpeld, Holstein.
Sir 0. Isham, Bart., Northampten.
Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Kilburn.
Wm. Oxley, Manchester.
E. Dawson Rogers, Finchley.
Morell Theobald, Hon. Sec.
J. Pemberton Turner, Leamington,
Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P., Queen Anne-street.
Prof. F. Zollner, Leipzig.
All remittances should be sent to
Morbll Theobald.
62, Granville-park, Blackheath.
Subscriptions already Received.
£ s. d.
Mr. and Mrs. Oranstoun, Lucerne   10 0 0
Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston   10 0 0
W. P. Adshead, Esq., Belper  5 5 0
William Tebb, Esq., Albert-road    5 5 0
H.R.H. Prince G    .'  5 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square 5 0 0
Dr. J. Dixon, Great Ormond-street  5 0 0
F. G. S., per A. Galder, Esq.    2 2 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P  2 2 0
J. Pemberton Tamer, Esq  2 2 0
Morell Theobald, Esq.     2 2 0
F. Myers, Esq.     2 0 0
Two Friends       2 0 0
Dr. Brown, Burnley      110
Wm. Oxley, Esq;       110
Rev. W. Staintan-Moses, M.A  110
Mrs. Stone, Shute Haye     110
J. B. Stones, Esq.        110
Dr. Stowell, Brighton     1 1 0
James Bowman, Glasgow   10 0
Miss Douglas, South Audley-street  10 0
R. Gessler, Basle   10 0
A Friend, per R. Gessler  10 0
Joseph Swinburne, Eaq    10 0
A. Tod, Peebles       10 0
Rev. W. Miall, Hackney   1 0 0
Miss Ottley, Belgravia  10 0
Dr. Wyld   10 0
John A. Hoover, Philadelphia    0 5 0
A. P., Edinburgh   R  0 10 0
W. R. Tomlinson   0 10 0
T. Farrell    0 10 0
J. Thompson        0 10 0
Small Sums        1 13 0
Second List.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory  10 0
Prof. Cassal, Lon. University   110
A. J. Oranstoun, Esq., second donation ... 2 0 0
F. W. Percival, Esq., Savile Clnb   110
The Yen. Archdeacon T  10 0 0
Herr Oscar von Hoffman, Leipzig   8 0 0
J. Clark Ferguson    0 10 0
Dr. Kennedy     20 0 0
R. Glendmning, Birkdale  1 1 0
“ One who Wishes She Could do More ”  0 10 0
George Tommy, Bristol,. ..  0 10 6
Capt. Copperthwaite, Malton    5 0 0
Capt. James, Gower-street    1 1 0
P.O. Order from Germany..    1 .0 0
Other Small Sums and Stamps  0 9 6
Price 5s. Or. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGKAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now Ready, Price Sixpence,
URANIA:
A Monthly Magazine of ASTROLOGY, &c. Edited by
Alfred J. Pearce.
Contents of the February number:—Planetary In¬
fluence on Earthquakes—Ephemeris. for the Month—
The Tay Bridge Catastrophe and the Stars—The Na¬
tivity of the Czar of Russia—A New Method of Com¬
puting Zodiacal Directions, with Explanatory Diagram
—Jupiter in Aries and the Revival of Trade—Mars in
Taurus and the Death-Rate of Dublin—The Astrology
of Dante—Answers to Correspondents, &c.
London; Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Pjfi A Copy sent post free on receipt of 6£d. in
Stamps by the Editor. Address, 3, Cedar’s-terrace,
Queen's-road, South Lambeth, London.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares,
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chanoery-lane.
January, 1880.] • [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
Spiritualism in some of its Religious Aspects; A
Comparison and a Contrast: M.A. (Oxon)—Curious
Reasoning of a “Master in Israel”: A. M. H. W.—
Spiritualism and Positivism in Relation to Problems
of Government: G. F. Green—Spiritualism in China :
Dr. Nicholls—Spiritual Evolution: M.A. (Oxon)—
Popular Errors and Objections to Spiritualism Ex
plained and Answered: J. S. Farmer—William Lloyd
Garrison and the Rev. Odin Ballou: T. S.—Notes and
Gleanings: Examine Yourselves; California Changes;
Spiritualism Capturing the Church ; Opponents Over¬
come ; “ What is our Nature ? ’’ The Uses of Spirit¬
ualism.—A Christmas Carol: J. T. Markley.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-Iane.
GLASGOW: Hay Nisbet & Co. 62 Ropework-lane.
CONTENTS.
The Materialisation of Spirit    61
Materialised Spirits Without a Cabinet. By
Florence Marryat-Lean......  62
Vision of a “ Double.” By Hensleigh Wedgwood,
J.P. .        ' 62
Treatment of Spiritualism a Test of Character. By
the Rev. W. Miall   63
Bonfires on St. John’s Eve ....;   66
A Premonition while under the Influence of an
Anaesthetic          67
Healing by Breathing, and by Mesmerised Water:
—Curious Vis’on of a Turkoman Immediately
before Acquiring the Poetic Faculty..i.   67
How my Writing Mediumship Began. By the
Baroness Adelina Von Vay (Countess Wurm-
brand    70
The Nature of Electricity.  71
Correspondence:—A Prophetic Dream—Dr. Monck 71
■Paragraph:—The Last Words of the Dying    -71
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevebidge and Co.,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents
High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, Lon ion, and pub
lished by E. W, Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C
