Resxstkkbd as A Newspaper,
#Ib*sf ixrxf^ m &xmt §ntam»
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
LONDON: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
No. 269.—(Vox,. XI.—No. 16.)
foments.
"What is a Trustworthy Medium ?   ... ...181
Dr. Slade in Denmark 181
A False Communication  181
Harriet Martineau’s Sensations under the Mesmeric In¬
fluence      ... ... '   182
A Spiritualistic Funeral   184
Mr. J. M. Peebles in Ceylon  ... 185
Matter and Spirit ...   ...  185
Spiritualism in Dalston  186
Mr. J. J. Morse’s Anniversary Conversazione  186
Seances in Manchester. By Charles Blackburn... ... ...187
Independent Slate Writing a Demonstrable Fact. By
Epes Sargent  ... ...) ... ...  188
A Trance Communication, through Mrs. Woodforde’s Me-
diumship    ... ...  188
Poetry:—Spirit Communion  ; 190
CorrespondenceFortnightly Spiritualistic Meetings in
Dalston—Suggestions from Cape Town—Astrology—
Spiritualism in Ireland—Mesmerism—Oh Hearing
Mesmerism Called Impious—Reincarnation 190
Nehoshtan” at University College... ... ... ... ... ... 191
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Seances
for Inquirers    ... ... ...  1. ... 192
Slate-Writing Phenomena 192
The Cary Family and “ The Double ”    192
Answers to Correspondents...   ... ... ... ...192
Paragraphs:—Healing Mediumship, 181; The Mesmerising
of Animals, 185; Clairvoyance, 187 ; To our Readers
in New York, 189 ; The Library of the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists, 189; Primitive Christianity
and Modern Spiritualism, 189; Sunday Morning
Meetings, 191; Miss Kislingbury in America 191
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics gj
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual-
is ts in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
• The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature,. Art, Sciencei and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
VV allace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American. Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President or the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes.Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Manwat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersourg);
the Baroness Adelma Yav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”] ; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S. ;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
oiiry; Miss A Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. x.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles !(tlnited States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson.'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. XOd.;
the Dnited States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capueines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor Q-. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Gorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefdtaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritiuuist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for October, 1877.
Saturday, 20th.—Trance Seance,Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
Wednesday, 24th.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Thursday, 25th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 26th.—Seance Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 2’lth.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
SEANCES FOR ENQUIRERS.
A Seance for Enquirers will be held at 38, Great Russell-
street, on Wednesday, October the 24th, Mr. C. E. Williams,
medium. Enquirers may have tickets free on application
to the Secretary. Admission to Members, Is. each.
SOIREES.
The first Soiree will be held on the 7th of November, and
will be a special entertainment with music and recitations.
Double tickets, 3s.; single tickets, 2s. each.
NEW MEMBERS.
Subscriptions paid before the end of the year by members
elected after this date will clear them up to the end of the year
,1878.
October 10th, 1877. A. JOY, Acting Secretary.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
Thb object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. SeO.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application,
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
THE FOURTH SESSION
Will commence on Thursday, 1st November, 1877, at 8.30 p.m,,
when the President will deliver his usual Opening Address.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
PwTflGnvnrKT'ii
HENRY D. JENCKEN,’ ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton
Rooms—53, Sigdon road, Dalston Lane, dalston,
London, E.
(Close to Hackney Downs Station, Great Eastern Railway,
and five minutes’ walk of Hackney Station, North London
Railway.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The taf Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special stances with professional media, lectures, discus
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have’the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
The soul, and how it found me ;
being a narrative of phenomena connected with tbo
production of England and Islam, by Edward Maitland.
 Tinsley Brothers, Publishers,  
Works by the Countess op Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
As exhibited at the Caxton celebration), is a self-inking one
and can easily be worked by a child of ten. Its work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens of type, &o., &c., post free 13 stamps.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.. PATENTEES.
Show Rooms:—18, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Price from £3 to £3 10*.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin, i
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers esjeiy^here, and. bY'.
Pears, 91, Great Rnssell-street, London.. - ’ • ♦’M.Tfr
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 19, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester:
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Qerald, Mrs.,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborougli-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Hollywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W'.
Je.ncken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Itogers, E. D., Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev.N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-vllla. Cairns-rd.. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., lateofH.M.S. “Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe,N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning. A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, ICennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hali, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, SW.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, NW.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson,Rose-villa, Church-end,Finchley, N,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
W hite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square,'West Brompton, S W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S W.
Withal!, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, SW.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, SW.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Klslingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Cons tan tinopie.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Viscon.de de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Plnneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa. Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantine Delkez, Ween, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, Mfelhourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. GledstanesjEsq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2.Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M, d« Bassompierre, 285, Ohaussee St, Pierre, Etterheck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test,Esq., M.D.,Union Springs,CayugaCo.,NewYork,U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austna.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day; Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaunaarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. StratU, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
AUied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasso, 28,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Biyton, Esq., 53, Ligdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana, President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
GRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
will be published as soon as Mrs. W eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolner, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co. 
ORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
I >OEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
JL LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Golby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
 London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.    
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris, Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61,' LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. j. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E,  
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.    
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on'subjects chosen by the audience, if desired)
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.C.
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
71, Pocock-street, Blackfriars-road, London.
MR. J. HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasant,
East-road, City-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en¬
gagements to start seances and to develope mediums.
PSYCHOMETRY.—For delineation of cha¬
racter and information on development consult (if by
letter enclose photo and 10s. 6d. as fee) Mr. J. Skipsey, Ash-
ington Colliery, near Morpeth, Northumberland.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d.,paper cover, “Heaven Opened," being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MR. J. COATES, the mesmerist, is about to
visit Ireland, calling at Belfast, Dublin, Cork, and
intermediate places en route. He will undertake the treat¬
ment of patients directly or under medical supervision; also
give sittings for the development of clairvoyance. Persons
desiring a visit will please write him at his address, 12, Lime-
street, Liverpool. 
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRIT¬
UALISTS.
MUSICAL BOX.—A fine Musical Box,
eight-aired, and in good condition, to be RAFFLED
FOR. Thirty-two shares at half-a-crown each. A few shares
still to be disposed of. Application to be made at once to the
Secretary, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
800for Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6d., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOE DISTEIBTJTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ’’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age."
HE FOOD THAT WE LIVE ON. In-
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes SabGent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Histosical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 6s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
M
§
(r^
xrf ||| tl i^| imi tl
VotujviE Eleven. Number ^ixteej^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19th, 1877.
WHAT IS A TRUST WORTHS' MEDIUM?
Sometimes the expression is used even by those who know
much about Spiritualism and its phenomena—if We should
be very careful, in the first instance, that we are dealing with
a trustworthy medium.” But it is now admitted that mediums
are mesmeric sensitives, more or less u under influence ”
at seancesy and that some of the trance and clairvoyant phe¬
nomena of Spiritualism, can be produced by the operation of
the will-power of a human being still clothed in the fleshly
robes of mortality.
If, then, mediums at stances are more or less in that
state in which the sensitives of a mesmeTic operator can be
made to firmly believe that Professor Lankester or Professor
Maskelyne is their grandmother, and if they are not good
sensitives unless extremely pliant to such impressions, what
is the meaning of demanding a trustworthy medium ? Is it
not virtually asking that the individuality of the medium
shall preponderate over that of the spirits during the progress
of the manifestations ?
Take an illustration. An inquirer tells his friends that
A. B. is a splendid medium, for his (the sitter’s) departed
brother communicated through him, and gave matter-of-fact
evidence proving his identity beyond question. Another in¬
vestigator, however, tells how some most malicious untruths,
coupled with advice calculated to ruin him if followed, was
given to him by an alleged spirit through the mouth of the
same medium. The truth, however, is that the brother of the
first inquirer was a man noted for all kinds of untruth and
iniquity; he was a landlord, perhaps, who under the en¬
couragement and support of Acts of Parliament, robbed his
tenants of the proceeds of their improvements of the land by
giving them short notice to quit or to pay increased rent—a
mode of swindling so common in this country that almost
everybody can point to a practical example. The second in¬
quirer gets a message from the shady character already in
possession of the medium, yet gives his testimony against the
sensitive, simply because he proved pliant to spirit-power.
Does anybody ever think of demanding that the youths on
a mesmerist’s platform shall be thoroughly trustworthy,
while they cannot help performing any absurdities the per¬
former chooses to name ?
This problem should be fairly faced, and other problems
for consideration arise out of it. But it is illogical to de¬
mand in one breath that an individual shall be pliant to
mesmeric influences, and at the same time shall not be pliant.
Both Spiritualists and mediums suffer when false theories
are acted upon, so the solution of this problem would be of
value to all.  
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., of Lamport Hall, Northampton, is
■writing another pamphlet on Vegetarianism, illustrated by himself.
Those interested in the subject should put themselves in communication
with them.
Mr. Blackburn, speaking of some published objections to his
utterances about Miss Wood, says :—“I am no enemy to her or others,
unless they knowingly lend themselves to evil controls, so as to make
money; for they should know and try the spirits beforehand ; and,
if evil, get others. Our few seances here are not extraordinary, except
to those who have not seen manifestations before, and who have long
railed at my folly; but they now go to others stating their wonder.”
Healing Mediumship.—“ The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because
he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He hath sent
me to heal the broken-hearted, to preach deliverance to the captives,
and recovering of sight to the blind; to set at liberty them that are
bruised.’’ If this was the mission of Jesus, can His ministers have a
nobler one? Why is it that the modern successors of the seventy
ministers ordained by Him ignore these gifts and these duties ? The
gifts of healing, and of casting out unclean spirits, are most profitable as
means of propagating the gospel of truth, which is the gospel of Jesus,
as His works and those of the apostles attest; but the clergy of the
present day not only neglect these gifts themselves, but they denounce
them when exercised by others. Are they not here amenable to the
charge that “ They profess that they know God, but in works they deny
Him” ?—Crowell,
DR. SLADE IN DENMARK.
Mr. J. Simmons writes to ns from Fuglsang, Denmark,
I Oct, 12tb, 1877.
We arrived here on the night of the 4th, and are the guests
| of Mr. ISTeergaard, who is very much interested in Spiritualism.
He is examining the subject very closely. Since we have
been here he has had from one to three sittings a day, and
has invited quite a number of his friends, some from Copen¬
hagen, men of science, also two clergymen who live in this
vicinity. Mr. Neergaard takes The Spiritualist regularly.
We hope to leave here in the early part of next week, either
for Copenhagen or Berlin—I think the latter place. M.
Aksakof writes that he would like us to be in St. Petersburg
| about Nov. 15th. Last evening, while Mr. Neergaard was
having a sitting, the keys of the piano were struck a number
of times: the piano was nearly ten feet from the table at
which the sitting was taking place.
A FALSE COMMUNICATION.
Probably no public medium in New England is more generally re¬
spected and considered to be above trickiness by Spiritualists, than
J. Frank Baxter. There has not been a whisper or a suspicious circum¬
stance to weaken the universal confidence in his honesty. Mr. Baxter
is not one who advertises to give private sittings to individuals,
although he has frequently done so. His forte is to lecture, and
either in the midst of it or at the close, names, dates, and circum¬
stances are announced purporting to be connected with some persons
who i‘ have passed through the change called death.” Whether the
audience was large or small, these “ tests ” were invariably recognised
to the aggregate, it is said, of many thousands.
Last week, Springfield’s papers announced the fact that a well-
known public character, a negro, whose death had been falsely
chronicled in 1875, and never denied, but who is yet living, came
“through” Mr. Baxter, at the Spiritualists’ camp meeting, Lake
Pleasant, Montague, engendering a dispute in the audience as to
whether he was dead or alive. A telegraphic inquiry elicited the
response that he had not passed through the hands of an undertaker.
The sceptic would naturally say, as has often been said, though never,
as in the present instance, with a show of proof, that Mr. Baxter ob¬
tained this information from the newspapers ; and were there not other
evidence in favour of his mediumship, the more impartial Spiritualists
might lean to this opinion. That he has given, however, names, dates,
and facts that never could have been gleaned in this manner, many
can testify, and no doubt can exist that he is a trustworthy medium;
consequently he is entitled to a hearing, and the philosophy of the
manifestations must be examined, to ascertain if any reasonable ex¬
planation of this circumstance can be offered. On the morning of the
day that the “ test ” was given, when Mr. Baxter came on the plat¬
form, he did say, “ Attica, my guide, has warned me to be careful to¬
day, but I don’t know what she means.” This, in itself, is quite re¬
markable, for he is not in the habit of making similar remarks.
“ Attica,” since the occurrence, explained that Mr. Baxter had been
overworked, and was therefore negative to any influence; she saw
danger threatening, but did not know in what shape it might appear ;
she gave him warning; “ the singing of a comic negro song attracted
mischievous spirits, one of whom made the communication that
caused the trouble.” The explanation is consistent with the principles
of the spiritual philosophy; and the views of the sceptic are also
reasonable, except when the character of the man is taken into con-
! sideration. So, too, in the light of the teachings of Spiritualism, the
result is what might be possible at a gathering like that at Lake
i Pleasant the present year. Every other tent almost holds a public
medium, as the signs indicate at least fifty or seventy-five; while some
i of them are genuine, and ladies and gentlemen as well, there are also
in the camp many exposed frauds and doubtful characters. If Spirit-
| ualists do not observe the teachings of their own philosophy, and guard
| their mediums from all unfavourable conditions, and if mediums can¬
not learn the lesson constantly being taught them that they cannot
I enter every influence without being affected, it must not be a matter of
surprise that the critical observers detect that which will bear other
I and as reasonable interpretations adverse to Spiritualism as any that
| can be advanced to defend it.—Boston Sunday Herald, Aug, 26£A.
| At the future soirees of the National Association of Spiritualists, a
| small portion of the time will be devoted to public speaking on matters
of interest connected with Spiritualism, but not sufficient time will be
i so occupied to destroy the social character of the gatherings.
182 THE SPIRITUALIST. Oct. 19, 1877.
HARRIET MARTINEAU’S SENSATIONS UNDER THE |
MESMERIC INFLUENCE.
The following particulars are extracted from a scarce book, j j
long out of print, Harriet Martineau’s Letters on Mesmerism: j j
Moxon : London, 1845 :— !
On Saturday, June 22nd, Mr. Spencer Hall and my |j
medical friend came as arranged, at my worst hour of the j
day, between the expiration of one opiate and the taking of I
another. By an accident, the gentlemen were rather in a j
hurry—a circumstance unfavourable to a first experiment.
But result enough was obtained to encourage a further trial,
though it was of a nature entirely unanticipated by me. I j
had no other idea than that I should either drop asleep or
feel nothing. I did not drop asleep, and I did feel some¬
thing very strange. Various passes were tried by Mr. Hall;
the first that appeared effectual, and the most so for some j
time after, were passes over the head, made from behind— |
passes from the forehead to the back of the head, and a little j|
way down the spine. A very short time after these were I
tried, and twenty minutes from the beginning of the seance^ j
I became sensible of an extraordinary appearance, most j
unexpected, and wholly unlike anything I had ever conceived j
of. Something seemed to diffuse itself through the atmo- j
sphere—not like smoke, nor steam, nor haze—but most like j
a clear twilight, closing in from the windows and down from j(
the ceiling, and in which one object after another melted j
away, till scarcely anything was left visible before my wide- j
open eyes. First, the outlines of all objects were blurred ; |
then a bust, standing on a pedestal in a strong light, melted j
quite away ; then the opposite bust; then the table with its I j
gay cover; then the floor and the ceiling, till one small j j
picture, high up on the opposite wall, only remained visible i I
•—like a patch of phosphoric light. I feared to move my j j
eyes, lest the singular appearance should vanish; and I cried |j j
out, “ 0 ! deepen it! deepen it! f supposing this the precursor i j j
of the sleep. It could not be deepened, however ; and when I | j
glanced aside from the luminous point, I found that I need j j
not fear the return of objects to their ordinary appearance j
while the passes were continued. The busts reappeared, |
ghost-like, in the dim atmosphere, like faint shadows, | !
except that their outlines, and the parts in the highest relief, j i
burned with the same phosphoric light. The features of j j
one, an Isis with bent head, seemed to be illumined by a fire j |
on the floor, though this bust has its back to the windows. I j
Wherever I glanced, all outlines were dressed in this beau- j |
tiful light; and so they have been, at every seance^ without j i
exception, to this day; though the appearance has rather I i
given way to drowsiness since I left off opiates entirely. I j
This appearance continued during the remaining twenty I j
minutes before the gentlemen were obliged to leave me. |
The other effects produced were, first, heat, oppression and j
sickness, and, for a few hours after, disordered stomach; |
followed, in the course of the evening, by a feeling of j
lightness and relief, in which I thought I could hardly be j
mistaken. j
On occasions of a perfectly new experience, however, j j
scepticism and self-distrust are very strong. I was aware j j
of this beforehand, and also, of course, of the common j j
sneer—that mesmeric effects are “ all imagination.” When [ I
the singular appearances presented themselves, I thought to j j
myself, “Now, shall I ever believe that this was all fancy? j j
When it is gone, and when people laugh, shall I ever doubt j |
having seen what is now as distinct to my waking eyes as j j
the rolling waves of yonder sea, or the faces round my j j
sofa? ” I did a little doubt it in the course of the evening : j j
I had some misgivings even so soon as that; and yet more ! |
the next morning, when it appeared like a dream. ‘ j j
Great was the comfort, therefore, of recognising the ap- j j
pearances on the second afternoon. “Now,” thought I, | |
<( can I again doubt? ” I did, more faintly ; but, before a j j
week was over, I was certain of the fidelity of my own j j
senses in regard to this, and more. j I
There was no other agreeable experience on this second j j
afternoon. Mr. Hall was exhausted and unwell, from having j j
mesmerised many patients; and I was more oppressed and j !
disordered than on the preceding day, and the disorder con~ i
tinued for a longer time; but again, towards night, I felt j j
refreshed and relieved. How much of my ease was to be 11
attributed to mesmerism, and how much to my accustomed
opiate, there was no saying, in the then uncertain state of
my mind.
The next day, however, left no doubt. Mr. Hall was pre¬
vented by illness from coming over, too late to let me know.
Unwilling to take my opiate while in expectation of his
arrival, and too wretched to do without some resource, I
rang for my maid, and asked whether she had any objection
to attempt what she saw Mr. Hall do the day before. With
the greatest alacrity she complied. Within one minute the
twilight and phosphoric lights appeared; and in two or
three more, a delicious sensation of ease spread through me
—a cool comfort, before which all pain and distress gave
way, oosing out, as it were, at the soles of my feet. During
that hour, and almost the whole evening, I could no more
help exclaiming with pleasure than a person in torture cry¬
ing out with pain. I became hungry, and ate with relish for
the first time for five years. There was no heat, oppression,
or sickness during the seance, nor any disorder afterwards.
During the whole evening, instead of the lazy, hot ease of
opiates, under which pain is felt to lie in wait, I experienced
something of the indescribable sensation of health, which I
had quite lost and forgotten. I walked about my rooms,
and was gay and talkative. Something of this relief re¬
mained till the next morning; and then there was no
reaction. I was no worse than usual; and perhaps rather
better.
Nothing is to me more unquestionable and more striking
about this influence than the absence of all reaction. Its
highest exhilaration is followed, not by depression or ex¬
haustion, but by a further renovation. From the first hour
to the present, I have never fallen back a single step.
Every point gained has been steadily held. Improved
composure of nerve and spirits has followed upon every
mesmeric exhilaration. I have been spared all the weak¬
nesses of convalescence, and carried through all the usually
formidable enterprises of return from deep disease to health
with a steadiness and tranquillity astonishing to all witnesses.
At this time, before venturing to speak of my health as
established, I believe myself more firm in nerve, more calm
and steady in mind and spirits than at any time of my life
before. So much, in consideration of the natural and com¬
mon fear of the mesmeric influence as pernicious excitement
—as a kind of intoxication.
When Mr. Hall saw how congenial was the influence of
this new mesmerist, he advised our going on by ourselves,
which we did till the 6th of September. I owe much to Mr.
Hall for his disinterested zeal and kindness. He did for me
all he could; and it was much to make a beginning, and put
us in the way of proceeding.
I next procured, for guidance, Deleuze’s Instruction
Pratique sur le Magnetisms Animal. Out of this I directed
my maid; and for some weeks we went on pretty well.
Finding my appetite and digestion sufficiently improved, I
left off tonics, and also the medicine which I had taken for
two years and four months, in obedience to my doctor’s hope
of affecting the disease—though the eminent physician who
saw me before that time declared that he had “tried it in an
infinite number of such cases, and never knew it avail.” I
never felt the want of these medicines, nor of others which
I afterwards discontinued. From the first week in August
I took no medicines but opiates, and these I was gradually
reducing. These particulars are mentioned to show how
early in the experiment mesmerism became my sole reliance.
On four days, scattered through six weeks, our Seance
was prevented by visitors,or other accidents. On these four
days, the old distress and pain recurred; but never on the
days when I was mesmerised.
From the middle of August (after I had discontinued all
medicines but opiates), the departure of the worst pains and
oppressions of my disease made me suspect that the com¬
plaint itself—the incurable, hopeless disease of so many
years—was reached; and now I first began to glance towards
the thought of recovery. In two or three weeks more, it
became certain that I was not deceived, and the radical
amendment has since gone on without intermission.
Another thing, however, was also becoming clear ; that
more aid was necessary. My maid did for me whatever,
under my own instructions, good-will and affection could do;
Oct. 19, 1877.
THE STIHITUALIST.
183
but the patience and strenuous purpose required in a case of
such long and deep-seated disease can only be looked for in an
educated person, so familiar with the practice of mesmerism
as to be able to keep a steady eye on the end through all
delays and doubtful incidents. And it is also important, if
not necessary, that the predominance of will should be in the
mesmerist, not the patient. The offices of an untrained
servant may avail perfectly in a short case—for the removal
of sudden pain, or a brief illness—but, from the subordi¬
nation being in the wrong party, we found ourselves coming
to a stand.
This difficulty was abolished by the kindness and
sagacity of Mr. Atkinson, who had been my adviser through¬
out. He explained my position to a friend of his—a lady,
the widow of a clergyman, deeply and practically interested
in mesmerism—possessed of great mesmeric power, and of
those high qualities of mind and heart which fortify and
sanctify its influence. In pure zeal and benevolence this
lady came to me, and has been with me ever since. When
I found myself able to repose on the knowledge and power
(mental and moral) of my mesmerist, the last impediments
to my progress were cleared away, and I improved accord¬
ingly.
Under her hands the visual appearances and other imme¬
diate sensations were much the same as before; but the
experience of recovery was more rapid. I can describe it
only by saying that I felt as if my life were fed from day to
day. The vital force infused or induced was as clear and
certain as the strength given by food to those who are faint
from hunger. I am careful to avoid theorising at present on
a subject which has not yet furnished me with a sufficiency of
facts ; but it can hardly be called theorising to say (while
silent as to the nature of the agency) that the principle of
life itself—that principle which is antagonistic to disease—
appears to be fortified by the mesmeric influence; and thus
far we may account for mesmerism being no specific, but
successful through the widest range of diseases that are not
hereditary, and have not caused disorganisation. Ho
mistake about mesmerism is more prevalent than the sup¬
position that it can avail only in nervous diseases. The
numerous cases recorded of cure of rheumatism, dropsy,
cancer, and the whole class of tumours—cases as distinct |
and almost as numerous as those of cure of paralysis, j
epilepsy, and other diseases of the brain and nerves, must j
make any inquirer cautious of limiting his anticipations and j
experiments by any theory of exclusive action on the nervous |
system. Whether mesmerism, and, indeed, any influence j
whatever, acts exclusively through the nervous system is
another* question.
A few days after the arrival of my kind mesmerist I had i
my foot on the grass for the first time for four years and a !
half. I went down to the little garden under my windows, j
I never before was in the open air, after an illness of merely |
a week or two, without feeling more or less overpowered; |
but now, under the open sky, after four years and a half spent j
between bed and a sofa, I felt no faintness, exhaustion, or j
nervousness of any kind. I was somewhat haunted for a j
day or two by the stalks of the grass, which I had not seen j
growing for so long (for, well supplied as I had been with I
flowers, rich and rare, I had seen no grass, except from my |
windows) ; but at the time, I was as self-possessed as any I
walker in the place. In a day or two I walked round the i
garden, then down the lane, then to the haven, and so on, j
till now, in two months, five miles are no fatigue to me. I
At first, the evidences of the extent of the disease were so |
clear as to make me think that I had never before fully under- I
stood how ill I had been. They disappeared one by one; j
and now I feel nothing of them.
The same fortifying influence carried me through the j
greatest effort of all—the final severance from opiates, j
What that struggle is, can be conceived only by those who !
have experienced, or watched it with solicitude in a case of J
desperate dependence on them for years. No previous reduc- <
tion can bridge over the chasm which separates an opiated ]
from the natural state. I see in my own experience a con- jj
soling promise for the diseased, and also for the intemperate, j
who may desire to regain a natural condition, but might j
fail through bodily suffering. Where the mesmeric sleep |
can be induced, the transition may be made comparatively i!
easy. It appears, however, that opiates are a great hindrance
to the production of the sleep ; but, even so, the mesmeric
influence is an inestimable help, as I can testify. I gave all
my opiates to my mesmerist, desiring her not to let me have
any on any entreaty; and during the day I scarcely felt the
want of them. Her mesmerising kept me up; and, much
more, it intercepted the distress—obviated the accumulation
of miseries under which the unaided sufferer is apt to sink.
It enabled me to encounter every night afresh—acting as it
does in cases of insanity, where it is all-important to sus¬
pend the peculiar irritation—to banish the haunting idea.
What further aid I derived in this last struggle from mes¬
merism in another form, I shall mention when I detail the
other case with which my own became implicated, and in
which, to myself at least, the interest of my own has com¬
pletely merged.
It will be supposed that during the whole experiment
I longed to enjoy the mesmeric sleep, and was on the watch
for some of the wonders which I knew to be common. The
sleep never came; and, except the great marvel of restored
health, I have experienced less of the wonders than I have
observed in another. Some curious particulars are, however,
worth noting.
The first very striking circumstance to me, a novice,
though familiar enough to the practised, was the power of
my mesmerist’s volitions without any co-operation on my
part. One very warm morning in August, when everybody
else was oppressed with heat, I was shivering a little under
the mesmeric influence of my maid—the influence in those
days causing the sensation of cold currents running through
me from head to foot. “ This cold will not do for you, ma’am,”
said M. “ 0 !” said I, “ it is fresh, and I do not mind it;”
and immediately my mind went off to something else. In a
few minutes I was surprised by a feeling as of warm water
trickling through the channels of the late cold. In reply to
my observation, that I was warm now, M. said, “Yes, ma’am,
that is what I am doing. ” By inquiry and observation, it be¬
came clear to me that her influence was, generally speaking,
composing, just in proportion to her power of willing that it
should be so. When I afterwards saw, in the case I shall
relate, how the volition of the mesmerist caused immediate
waking from the deepest sleep, and a supposition that the
same glass of water was now wine—now porter, &c., I be¬
came too much familiarised with the effect to be as much
astonished as many of my readers will doubtless be.
Another striking instance occurred in one of the earliest
of my walks. My mesmerist and I had reached a headland
nearly half a mile from home, and were resting there, when
she proposed to mesmerise me a little—partly to refresh me
for our return, and partly to see whether any effect would be
produced in a new place, and while a fresh breeze was blow¬
ing. She merely laid her hand on my forehead, and, in a
minute or two the usual appearances came, assuming a
strange air of novelty from the scene in which I was. After
the blurring of the outlines, which made all objects more
dim than the dull grey day had already made them, the
phosphoric lights appeared, glorifying every rock and head¬
land, the horizon, and all the vessels in sight. One of the
dirtiest and meanest of the steam tugs in the port was passing
at the time, and it was all dressed in heavenly radiance—the
last object that any imagination would select as an element
of a vision. Then, and often before or since, did it occur to
me that if I had been a pious and very ignorant Catholic, I
could not have escaped the persuasion that I had seen
heavenly visions. Every glorified object before my open
eyes would have been a revelation; and my mesmerist, with
the white halo round her head, and the illuminated profile,
would have been a saint or an angel.
Sometimes the induced darkening has been so great, that
I have seriously inquired whether the lamp was not out,
when a few movements of the head convinced me that it was
burning as brightly as ever. As the muscular power oozes
away under the mesmeric influence, a strange inexplicable
feeling ensues of the frame becoming transparent and ductile.
My head has often appeared to be drawn out, to change its
form according to the traction of my mesmerist; and an in¬
describable and exceedingly agreeablesensation of transparency
and lightness, through a part or the whole of the frame, has
followed. Then begins the moaning, of which so much has
184
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 19, 1877.
been made, as an indication of pain. I have often moaned,
and much oftener have been disposed to do so, when the sensa¬
tions have been the most tranquil and agreeable. At such
times, my mesmerist has struggled not to disturb me by a
laugh, when I have murmured, with a serious tone, “ Here
are my hands, but they have no arms to them“0 dear !
what shall I do? here is none of me left!” the intellect and
moral powers being all the while at their strongest. Between
this condition and the mesmeric sleep there is a state, tran¬
sient and rare, of which I have had experience, but of which
I intend to give no account. A somnambule calls it a
glimmering of the lights of somnambulism and clairvoyance.
To me there appears nothing like glimmering in it. The
ideas that I have snatched from it, and now retain, are, of all
ideas which ever visited me, the most lucid and impressive.
It may be well that they are incommunicable—partly from
their nature and relations, and partly from their unfitness
for translation into mere words. I will only say that the
condition is one of no “nervous excitement,” as far as
experience and outward indications can be taken as a test.
Such a state of repose, of calm translucent intellectuality, I
had never conceived of; and no reaction followed, no excite¬
ment but that which is natural to every one who finds him¬
self in possession of a great new idea.
Before leaving the narrative of my own case for that
of another, widely different, I put in a claim for my expe¬
riment being considered rational. It surely was so, not only
on account of my previous knowledge of facts, and of my
hopelessness from any other resource, but on grounds which
other sufferers may share with me, on the ground that
though the science of medicine may be exhausted in any
particular case, it does not follow that curative means are
exhausted ; on the ground of the ignorance of all men of
the nature and extent of the reparative power which lies
under our hand, and which is vaguely indicated by the term
“ Nature ; ” bn the ground of the ignorance of all men re¬
garding the very structure, and much more, the functions
of the nervous system; and on the broad ultimate ground
of our total ignorance of the principle of life—of what it is,
and where it resides, and whether it can be reached, and in
any way beneficially affected by a voluntary application of
human energy.
It seemed to me rational to seek a way to refreshment
first, and then to health, amidst this wilderness of igno¬
rances, rather than to lie perishing in their depths. The
event seems to prove it so. The story appears to me to
speak for itself. If it does not assert itself to all—if any
should, as is common in cases of restoration by mesmerism
—try to account for the result by any means but those
which are obvious, supposing a host of moral impossibilities
rather than admit a plain new fact, I have no concern with
such objectors or objections.
In a case of blindness cured, once upon a time, and
cavilled at and denied, from hostility to the means, an
answer was given which we are wont to consider suffi¬
ciently satisfactory: “ One thing I know, that whereas I
was blind, now I see.” Those who could dispute the fact
after this must be left to their doubts. They could, it is
true, cast out their restored brother; but they could not
impair his joy in his new blessing, nor despoil him of his
far higher privileges of belief in and allegiance to his bene¬
factor. Thus, whenever, under the Providence which leads
on our race to knowledge and power, any new blessing of
healing arises, it is little to one who enjoys it what disputes
are caused among observers. To him, the privilege is clear
and substantial. Physically, having been diseased, he is
now well. Intellectually, having been blind, he now sees.
For the wisest this is enough. And for those of a some¬
what lower order, who have a restless craving for human
sympathy in their recovered relish of life, there is almost
a certainty that somewhere near them there exist hearts
susceptible of simple faith in the unexplored powers of
nature, and minds capable of an ingenious recognition of
plain facts, though they be new, and must wait for a theo¬
retical solution.
Whoever says to me, “ Think as I do, or God will damn you,” will
soon say, “Think as I do, or I will kill you.” Let us beseech God to
soften these savage hearts, and inspire in all His children sentiments of
brotherhood.— Voltaire.
ij A SPIRITUALISTIC FUNERAL.
At South Portsmouth, Rhode Island, on the 12 th day of
September, 1877, Gertrude Minturn, daughter of Thomas R.
| and the late Francis M. Hazard, in the thirty-fifth year of
| her age, passed to the higher life.
Possessed of an expansive and highly cultivated intellect,
and a superabounding wealth of sympathy and tenderness
that embraced in its never-ceasing flow all of God’s creatures,
whether of the human or brute creation, whose sufferings
she ever strove to relieve to the full extent her available
means and feeble bodily strength would permit, the frail
| tenement, shattered at last under the unequal strain, gave
way, and broke the mystic cord that bound it to life; while
| the glad soul winged its way to the joyous home that, under
j the kind providence of the Almighty Father, has been pre-
! pared for her by her departed mother and sisters in the
| heavenly spirit-land.
The funeral took place at Yaucluse. The only services
| performed were the reading by her brother of passages from
| the twenty-third Psalm and thirteenth and fourteenth
chapters of John ; and, at the grave, the following beautiful
lines by Mrs. Browning, closing with the Lord’s Prayer,
repeated by a cousin of the deceased:
Of all the thoughts of God that are
Borne inward unto souls afar,
Along the Psalmist’s music deep,
Now tell me if there any is
For gift or grace, surpassing this :
“ He giveth His beloved sleep ? ”
What would we give to our beloved ?
The hero’s heart to be unmoved,
The poet’s star-tuned harp, to sweep,
The patriot’s voice, to teach and rouse,
The monarch’s crown, to light the brows.
“ He giveth His beloved sleep.”
What do we give to our beloved ?
A little faith, all undisproved,
A little dust, to over-weep,
And bitter memories, to make
The whole earth blasted for our sake.
“ He giveth His beloved sleep.”
tl Sleep soft, beloved! ” we sometimes say,
But have no tune to charm away
Sad dreams that through the eyelids creep;
But never doleful dream again
Shall break the happy slumber, when
“ He giveth His beloved sleep.”
0 earth, so full of dreary noises l
O men, with wailing in your voices !
0 delvM gold, the waller’s heap!
0 strife, O curse, that o’er it fall!
God makes a silence through you all,
And “givethHis beloved sleep.”
His dews drop mutely on the hill,
His cloud above it saileth still,
Though on its slope men sow and reap;
More softly than the dew is shed,
Or cloud is floated overhead,
“ He giveth His beloved sleep.”
Yea! men may wonder while they scan
A living, thinking, feeling man,
! Confirmed in such a rest to keep;
But angels say, and through the word
I think their happy smile is heard,
“He giveth His beloved sleep.”
For me, my heart that erst did go
Most like a tired child at a show,
That sees through tears the jugglers leap—
Would now its wearied vision close,
Would childlike on His love repose,
Who “ giveth His beloved sleep 1 ”
And, friends, dear friends, when it shall be
That this low breath is gone from me,
And round my bier ye come to weep,
Let one, most loving of you all,
Say, “ Not a tear must o’er her fall—
‘ He giveth His beloved sleep.”
Mr. Thomas R. Hazard writes to the Narmgansett Times,
! Wakefield, Rhode Island, May 11th On March 3lst, 1877,
I held what is called a seance with Mrs. Katie B, Robinson,
No. 2,123, Brandywine-street, Philadelphia, who has long
j been in the field plying her beautiful medial gift. Among
! many other spirit friends, my recently departed daughter
I took control of the organs of the entranced prophetess,
i and said:—
185
Oct. 19, 1877.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
Oh, God is good, my own dear father ; God is good; He taketh home
the weary spirit which has suffered long in its physical body. In His
beautiful world of light and love He hath a home for all who have suf¬
fered ; and in every home, dear father, we find union and love.
Tell my dear sisters and brother that Fanny lives beyond the grave,
and will ever come to guide them and love them as dearly as when in
life she walked by their side.
Oh, my father, how I thank you for your kindness and love to me ;
and when your work is done we all, with mothers and sisters, will meet
in love. Dear father, I now know that pure Spiritualism is beautiful,
and in talking with the dear ones in spirit-life we recognise that your
views in relation to it are right.
They tell me that this is the anniversary of “ Modern Spiritualism,”
and how happy I am with mother, Anna, and the loved ones, to greet
you in this way on this day. I will come again, but oh, father, as I
look upon the spirit-world its climate is beautiful and fair, the flowers
are always blooming there, and friends and kindred unite in love. Truly,
father, I have found a sweet home above.
In conclusion, let me say that I have had, within the past
'six weeks, several communications from my spirit daughter,
through different mediums, similar in character to the above.
On two occasions, at private residences, she materialised
her full form, on one occasion taking me by the hand and
sitting down beside me on a sofa for a short time. On
another occasion she walked by my side some yards with my
arm in hers, and as she was about to retire, threw her arms
about my neck and tenderly kissed my lips more than once.
As of old, some one may query, u Can these things be ? ”
I answer: “ Yes, they are so.”—Banner of Light.
MR. J. M. PEEBLES IN CEYLON.
Mr. J. M. Peebles, in the course of a letter to Mr. Luther
Colby, of Boston, U.S., says:—
I think that yesterday was the most interesting day of
my life, and for this reason: I spent a good portion of it
at the Buddhist College—in the suburbs of Columbi, a city
of 130,000—conversing and debating with the Buddhist
priests. There were present the High Priest, and President
of the College, sixty priests in their yellow robes, and twenty-
five or thirty young laymen, studying for the priesthood.
Some of these priests spoke English well. I had with me
two interpreters, one of whom had been in the employment
of the English Government. On very many points Budd¬
hism and Spiritualism are in perfect harmony. They all
helieve in the fact of spirit-intercourse; they cast out demons
as did Jesus; believe in salvation by merit, and merit alone ;
believe in the re-births or reincarnations of human beings
till their errors or sins are all atoned for, and they believe
in Nirvana—final absorption. On this, and the origin of
the soul, and the mental constitution of the soul, we had a
warm controversy. I can only say here that I found my
match in metaphysics. Only think, when I was arguing
that, soul was force, this priest pushed under my face Dr.
Lewis Buchner’s work on Matter and Force. These priests
have translated Bishop Colenso’s Work on the Pentateuch
into their native language, the Singahlese. Recently one
of these priests, the Rev. Mohattiwattey Goonananda, held
a two days’, public discussion with the Methodist mis¬
sionaries, and by common consent gained the victory. The
Rev. Mr. Bacon, an English clergyman, engaged as a
professor in St. Thomas College, Columbi, said that ((these
Wesleyans were not scholarly enough to meet the Buddhists
in debate; only the most clever men should be sent here as
missionaries.” I gave these priests, upon leaving them,
some forty or fifty Spiritualist and Shaker tracts, to aid
them in their debates with the sectarian Christians. Oh,
.bow much good I could do toward the downfall of bigotry
;and the enlightenment of the whole world, if I only had the
funds.
Oolumbi, Ooylon, Aug. 12th, 1877.
The Mesmerising oe Animals.—The Dalston Association of In¬
quirers into Spiritualism has determined to follow the example of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, by affording increased
facilities for debating various points of interest to investigators into
Spiritualism and kindred subjects. It announces the first of its Monday
evening discussion meetings for the 5 th of November next, on which
occasion Mr. William H. Harrison will read a paper on “ Experiments
on the Mesmerising of Animals.” Members and visitors who intend to
be present are desired to “ try home experiments on cats, dogs, horses,
or any other animals,” so as to be prepared to take part in the subse¬
quent proceedings. Practical mesmerists are cordially invited to attend,
and participate in the business of the meeting.—T. Blyton, Bon. Sec,
n MATTER AND SPIRIT.
(| If Matter and Consciousness be two sides of one and the
) | same medal, two products of one and the same force,
11 differentiated by conditions as yet unknown to us, as Herbert
|; Spencer affirms they are, may not this view, taken in con-
) | nection with the doctrine of the conservation and correlation
if of forces, throw some light on certain obscure facts of
\ | psychology ? I allude to the strange but undoubted effect
11 of asceticism, and the decrease of mere animal and fleshly
| vigour producing an increased power of the higher and
j occult forces of the soul, as instanced by the ascetics of
j ancient and modern India and Egypt, and of mediaeval
j Christendom, as well as by a class of corporeally weak
| and diseased persons, such as the Seeress of Prevorst, and
I numerous similar somnambulists, ecstatics, and others,
j May not this simultaneous weakening of matter and
| strengthening of spirit take place in strict conformity to
j the law of the correlation of forces ; and in all these cases
| may not exactly that amount of force which disappears as
| matter reappear as the occult forces of the soul ? May not
| the material imponderable forces set free in the bodies of
mediums by the states Of sleep and trance reappear, and be
made use of by spirits, in producing the “ Form manifesta-
| tions,” as in the interesting case with Dr. Monck, so well
i described in the last Spiritualist by Mr. Colley ?
j I am not aware that this view of matter and spirit has as
| yet been presented to the readers of The Spiritualist^ and I
| allude to it in the hope that some one better acquainted with
I the subject than I am, may be able to throw some light
| upon it.
| Professor Tyndall, in his interesting lecture given the
I other day, seems to be thoroughly aware of the gulf as yet
j impassable by scientific methods or instruments between
I matter and consciousness, and is evidently on the look-out
j for the missing link in the chain which would unite them
! together. If he were candid or truth-seeking enough to
! read the Spiritualistic literature, or to experiment himself,
j he might find what he is seeking for in the spiritual body, the
j Linga Skarira of the ancient Hindus, the existence of which,
! I it seems to me, has been proved by so many well authenti-
j j cated cases of apparitions, doppelgangers, and visions of
| | clairvoyants. The Seeress of Prevorst, in her extraordinary
! i revelations about the spiritual body, calls it the Nerven- Geist,
j j or nerve-spirit, and affirms it to be the bond or link which
| j brings mind and body in connection with the outer world,
| j and which remains with the soul after death, and forms the
| | outer husk or body with which it then clothes itself. Some
I ! physiologists, I believe, particularly since Reichenbach’s ex-
| I periments, admit that there is some scientific evidence for
| | the existence of some such body or force; and Petinger
j says: “ The nerve fluid is neither oil nor water, nor air nor
| | fire, but a thing intermediate between soul and body.” This
j j is that “ inner man” of whom Tyndall speaks, who receives
i j and answers the messages sent by the nerves, and whose
; | existence he almost admits to be necessary in order to ex-
| I plain the fact of consciousness.
Spiritualists, having abundant evidence of the existence
j of this interior Being, will scarcely be content, as Dr.
j | Tyndall wishes humanity to be, with “ making our souls a
j I poetic rendering of a phenomenon which refuses the yoke of
| | ordinary mechanical laws.” If he be satisfied in his “ hours
| | of clearness and vigour” with such poetry, let him, but we
H shall prefer to hold fast to facts, proving the existence of
I this soul incorporated within our fleshly organism.
v In the beautiful and celebrated Yedantic philosophical
poem, Atma^-bodha, or <c Knowledge of the Soul,” which, if
I recollect right, has been translated by Professor Roer, and
part of which has been versified by Professor Monier
Williams, occurs this passage :—
| The soul inwrapped in fire-investing sheaths
Seems formed of these, and all its purity
II i Darkened like crystal laid on coloured cloth,
11! As winnowed rice is purified from husk,
Hi So is the soul disburdened of its sheaths
I | By force of meditation, as by threshing.
ill * “Atma,” from the same root as the German “Athmen,” “to breathe.” This instructive
| J j symbolism, used in so many languages, of describing the soul by the process of breathing,
I (i corresponds very curiously with the Swedenborgian idea of the soul or spiritual body, even
i j during earth-life, being nourished by an influx-inbreathing of the divine Ether. Some
I j | other languages describe the soul by images borrowed from light, a ray of light from some
i (I hidden sun, the “ Amen-Ra” of the Egyptians,
186
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. i9, i87t.
Professor Williams explains these sheaths as follows :—
With regard to the five sheaths (pancd-Kosd)^ it must be noted that
in the Vedanta the individual soul, when separated off from the Supreme
Soul, is regarded as enclosed in a succession of cases (K6sa) which
envelope it, and, as it were, fold one over the other “like the coats of an
onion.” The first, or innermost sheath is called the Vigndna-maya-
Kosd, or sheath composed of mere intellection, associated with the
organs of perception. This gives the personal soul its first conception
of individuality. The second case is called the Mano-maya, or “ sheath
composed of mind,” associated with the organs of action. This gives
the individual soul its powers of thought and judgment. The third
envelope is called Prana-maya, a “breathing sheath,” *.e., the sheath
composed of breath and the other vital airs associated with the organs
of action. The fourth case is called the Anna-maya, or “ covering sup¬
ported by food,” i.e., the corporeal form, or gross body. A fifth case,
called Ananda-maya, or “ that composed of supreme bliss,” is also
named, although not admitted by all. It must be regarded as the
innermost of all, and ought, therefore, when five are enumerated, to be
placed before the Vigndna-maya. Moreover, a collective totality of
subtile bodies is supposed to exist, and the soul, which is imagined to
pass through these subtile bodies like a thread, is called the Sukatman,
“ thread soul,” occasionally styled the Prdnatman, and sometimes
identified with Hiranyagarbha,—Indian Wisdom, by Monier Williams,
p. 123.
These soul-sheaths appear to present a curious resemblance
to the mysterious soul-circles, which the Seeress of Prevorst
drew, and of which she gave such curious descriptions.
If we examine the “ Life Circle” as drawn and described
by the Seeress of Prevorst, we shall find there also five
circles surrounding the spiritual essence of man. In the
middle part of the innermost circle is the seat of the spirit
( Geist), and the three circles around it form its proper realm
(Gebiet). Outside these three rings is the realm or sphere
of the soul or spiritual body {Nerven-Geist), as distinguished
by the Seeress from the pure spirit (Geist). The fifth circle
is the realm of the material world, perceptible by the bodily
senses. (See Die Seherin von Prevorst, 1st vol. p. 219.
Stuttgard und Tubingen.)
Referring to the above five sheaths of the Hindus, it will
be seen that the fifth sheath, the Ananda-maya, u composed
of supreme bliss,” is evidently the same as the innermost
circle of the Seeress, the seat of the pure spirit. The
Hindus, it will be seen, like her, allege it to be the inner¬
most sheath. This agreement in the number of circles
(five), and the innermost being the sphere of bliss, in which
the highest and most occult qualities of the spirit are
manifested is, to say the least, very curious; for the Seeress
knew nothing of Hindu philosophy. The Zoroastrian system
also alludes to the (< spiritual body,” and calls it “ the pure
man,” unaffected in essence by the sins or shortcomings of
the earthly man. A. J. C.
Lucerne, October 7, 1877.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
At the ordinary monthly meeting of the Council of the Ralston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, held at their Rooms, 53,
Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane, London, E., on Thursday evening last week,
under the vice-presidency of Mrs. W. E. Corner, the other members of
Council present were Messrs. J. Tozeland, J. Rouse, and Thos. Blyton.
The minutes of the last session were read and confirmed. The hon.
secretary read letters of general interest received since from Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.L, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. J. W. Fletcher, Mr. W. J.
Colville, Mr. J. L. O’Sullivan, Mr. F. W. Monck, and Herr Christian
Reimers. Presentations were laid upon the table and accepted with a
cordial vote of thanks to the donors, viz., Herr Christian Reimers and
Mr. Edward Maitland. A letter from Mr. James Burns was read,
applying for subscription for a monthly supply of The Spiritual Teacher's
Calendar for distribution, which was declined. The attention of the
Council was drawn to arrangements for the winter fortnightly Monday
discussion meetings, and it was resolved that the first should be held on
Monday evening, the 5th November next, when Mr. W. H. Harrison’s
paper on “ Experiments on the Mesmerising of Animals,” would form
the subject for reading and subsequent discussion. An offer by Herr
Christian Reimers to discuss points connected with the production of
the casts of hands and feet, kindly presented by that gentleman to the i
Ralston Association, was accepted for Monday evening, the 19th of j
November.
The proceedings were then adjourned, and the ordinary weekly seance \
afterwards took place.
Roes anybody know the address of the secretary to the Liverpool
Psychological Society?
“ See to it that the tenement or house in which the spirit lives is
clean, for when you drift to the other side of life you are not asked by |
the receivers what lies without; they ask you where is your heart ? i
where are your acts or your deeds ? and we answer as best we can.”—
Spirit Message, i
MR. J. J. MORSE’S ANNIVERSARY CONVERSAZIONE.
| La st Wednesday night the eighth anniversary conversazione in
recognition of the useful work of Mr. J. J. Morse, trance medium, was
| held at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, London,
under the chairmanship of Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
| British National Association of Spiritualists. There was a full
| attendance.
The President, in opening the business proceedings of the evening,
said : Ladies and Gentlemen,—I have been asked to take the chair, and
say a few words on the occasion of this pleasant and cheerful gathering,
j We have met, as you are aware, to celebrate the eighth anniversary of
| the labours of one of our best inspirational speakers. Eight years ago
our friend Mr. Morse commenced his distinguished career in the ranks
of Spiritualism, and ever since has valiantly borne its banner aloft, dis¬
seminating with unwearied zeal and intelligence—though with the most
slender pecuniary gain—the truths relating to our bright and glorious
cause. Why is it bright and glorious ? I shall not presume to answer
so large a question ; but, as the miser gloats on his hoard, and the rich
man delights in the survey of his fields, so suffer me for a moment to
rejoice over a few of the titles to our noble possession. Spiritualism
enables us to hold and maintain with a firm grasp some of the grandest
verities affecting humanity. It furnishes a new departure in life,
raising us, despite the scornful opinion of the world, a step higher in
the scale of being. It reduces frivolity and recklessness. It teaches
the study of ourselves, and the spirit within. It frees us from that
great fault of society, the fear of death. Not unduly immersed in
matter and present existence, it gives us a strong and abiding sense of
the reality of life in an eternal world. It assures us of a glorious
spiritual future. It invites us to share in a noble warfare on earth : for,
however humble and feeble, we are nevertheless the champions for the
truths of the primitive Christians. While atheism is sapping the
foundation of things sacred, and is unblushingly stalking abroad, led by
the rash hand of some men of science and of literature, it is our high
privilege to combat the noxious pestilence. While the theologian stands
timid, perplexed, and well-nigh paralysed at these unholy assaults, and
the world is famishing for truth, the Spiritualist is abundantly filled.
In short, we have truly reason to rejoice, for, as each true Spiritualist
knows, a light is thrown over his path to guide him into the ways of peace.
To discourse on these and other kindred themes has now occupied a
good many past years of our friend Mr. Morse ; and on your behalf, as
well as my own, I express the fervent wish that he may long be spared,
steadily to pursue the same bright career, with ever increasing success,
satisfaction, and happiness, to himself, his relatives, his many admirers
and his friends. (Applause.)
The following recitations, songs, and selections of music were then
given:—Pianoforte solo, minuet, symphony in E flat (Mozart), Miss
Maltby; Song, “ Agatha ” (Franz Abt), Miss Schallehn; a recitation,
Mrs. Waite; Cavatina, “M’ appari tutt’ amor,” Marta (Flotow), Mr.
Ernest A. Tietkens; Old Welsh Song, “The Ash Grove,” Madame
Schneegans; Pianoforte solo, “Rondo Brillant” (Weber), Miss Holmes;
Recitation, “Luke” (Bret Harte), Mr.Rietz; Duet, “O that we two
were Maying ” (Alice Mary Smith), Madame Schneegans and Mr. E. A.
Tietkens.
Mr. J. J. Morse, who rose amid loud applause, said:—Mr. Chairman,
ladies and gentlemen,—Permit me to claim your kind indulgence for a
few moments. What I desire to say to you shall be presented in as few
words as possible. On such occasions as the present I look upon speech¬
making as something very much like a necessary evil, taxing one’s
patience while it lasts, and inspiring a sigh of relief when it is done.
However, I feel I should be failing in my duty did I not subject you to
the not unmixed blessing of my “ few words ’’ to-night. The present
occasion marks the eighth anniversary of my appearance as a public
medium in connection with modern English Spiritualism. Eight years
of hard work, but so many years of useful experiences, and in the main
exciting and pleasing reminiscences. Friends I have found in plenty—
east, west, north, and south—warm hands clasp mine, and many a
fervent “ God speed” has cheered me on my way. It is said one cannot
please every one, particularly in this trial of public characters, and in
their case it is most unwise to try. I have endeavoured to be true to
myself in all that I have been engaged in, helping all, working for all,
looking at Spiritualists in the light of their being one family, caring not
so much for parties or persons, but looking rather to the cause as a whole,
and to the principles it represents. If I have erred—and some of my
friends say I have—who does not ?—I can only say I strove to do my
best. I ever feel that, as a servant of the spirits, I can best fill my place
by working for all, binding myself to none. Friends, if you will permit
me to call you such, for so I feel you are, by your presence and sym¬
pathy here to-night, I return you, one and all; my most hearty and
grateful thanks for your support of the object of this meeting. Believe
me when I say I shall take away the most pleasant and gratifying
recollections of to-night. I am not at all insensible to the esteem of my
fellows; on the contrary, I prize it much, and the more when I feel that
I am not obtaining it “ by false pretences or otherwise! ” I trust I may
be ever counted worthy of your regard, and that I may always be able
to stand before you with a clear consciousness of having striven for the
right. I experience to-night a peculiar obligation towards the esteemed
gentleman who has so kindly consented to preside over us. The request
that he should do so originated with my spirit-friends, and it was a most
gratifying circumstance to me when his consent to be here was made
known to me. I regret to add that owing, to purely accidental inadver¬
tence the name of our chairman has been omitted from the programme in
your hands, and also from the final notices convening this meeting.
Believe me, sir, no discourtesy was intended towards yourself. As
an earnest worker, as a genial gentleman, and as the head of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Calder’s presence
here to-night confers a triple favour upon me, and I think I may safely
Oct. 19, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. Igf
add, upon all of us as well. I tender you, sir, my grateful thanks for
your kindly courtesy in presiding here to-night. (Applause.) Up
to this time we have all of us enjoyed the various vocal and instru¬
mental efforts of those ladies and gentlemen who have favoured us with
contributions in that direction. I may safely prophesy that your
pleasure will not abate during the execution of the second part of the
programme. I embrace the present opportunity to thank the ladies
and gentlemen who have so ably entertained us, and to whose presence
I am in so large a measure indebted for to-night’s success ; when I say
they have all volunteered their services, I think I give them the highest
praise. Where all have done so well it were invidious to particularise.
I thank them all sincerely. Friends there are whom distance has pre¬
vented from being here to-night, but I am assured in other regards of
their substantial interest in the purposes of this meeting. I thank
them for their practical assistance and kindly sympathy. In the
company before me are many faces I am proud to see present;
friends whose hands have warmly clasped mine; whose sympathy
again now, as often in the past, sustains and invigorates me. There
are some that are absent. The White Angel has been abroad
and, clasping their hands, has led them from earth’s distractions
to the calmness of the higher life. Others there are who are absent
whom I should have been pleased to see here to-night. And, now,
friends, I have a duty, at once imperative and pleasing, that I must
discharge. I am deeply indebted to the disinterested kindness of our
respected and valued friend, Mrs. Maltby, whose unremitting attention
and arduous labours in connection with this most pleasant meeting have
so materially contributed to its successful issue. I may venture to say
—and without the slightest suspicion of flattery either—that all who
enjoy the favour of her acquaintance esteem her for her kindly
sympathy, her warmth of heart, and her strong desire to aid all who
need assistance, of which her labours on my behalf form excellent
evidence, and for which I publicly tender her my most heartfelt thanks.
Madam, I sincerely thank you, and trust you may be spared to us for
many years to come. I desire, also, to record my thanks to the editors
of our two weekly papers, who have printed the notices convening this
meeting in their papers free of cost, and from time to time called atten¬
tion to it in their respective columns. It is another evidence of the
kindness the Spiritual journals have invariably manifested towards me,
and I thank them for this further mark of their consideration. Mr.
Chairman, ladies, and gentlemen, as I close let me lay aside my pro¬
fessional character, and stand before you as the man, rather than the
speaker. I know those who are tenacious of the dignity of the speaker-
hood; for my part, I prefer the dignity of my manhood. The man first,
then the speaker; the better the man, the more useful the worker. As
the man, then; as one with failings and virtues in common with you
all; as one who pretends nothing on account of his office as a medium;
as one who only aspires to the regard of all worthy people who consider
him deserving of it, I take my leave of you, thanking you for all you
have done now and in the past, resolving to be more worthy in the
future. As the worker I stand before the world. When I meet friends
under circumstances such as these I come before you as the man. Mr.
Chairman and friends, I thank you all sincerely, and now ask your
permission to retire. (Applause.)
The following was the concluding portion of the evening’s proceed¬
ings :—Pianoforte duet (Gounod), the Misses Annie and Evelyn Ward ;
Recitation, Miss Ella Dietz; Vocal duet, Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Ward;
Song, “ Evangeline ’’ (John Blockly), Miss Schallehn; Song, “ Esme¬
ralda” (Levey), Mrs. Limpus ; Song, “ Good night, beloved ” (Balfe),
Mr. E. A. Tietkens; Song, “ The Old Cottage Clock ” (Molloy), Madame
Schneegans; Song, Mr. J. C. Ward; Recitation, “ The Northern
Farmer ” (Tennyson), Mr. Dietz; Finale—Duet (concertina and piano),
“ Zampa” (Herold), Miss A. Ward and Mr. J. C. Ward.
Where all did so well, and came voluntarily forward in support of
Mr. Morse, it would be invidious to select any performer for special
praise. Suffice it to say, that most of the real work of getting up this
entertainment fell upon Mrs. Maltby, and that everybody present was
highly pleased with the results.
On Sunday next Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance address in the
Mill-lane Schools, Stockton-on-Tees ; subject—“ Spirit Communion:
its Value;” service at 6.30 p.m. On Monday evening, October 22,
same place, at 8, subject chosen by the audience.
Mr. Lees, of Manchester, who, some time since, discussed the subject
of Spiritualism with Mr. J. W. Mahony, at Leigh, has, in acceptance
of a general challenge thrown out by the latter gentleman, invited him,
through the columns of the Ulverston Mirror, to meet him again in a
discussion on the question. Mr. Mahony objects to its taking place at
Ulverston so soon after the recent one there, and proposes Barrow, and
prefers that Mr, Lees should be put forward by some representative
body, as at Leigh. Mr. Lees agrees to these conditions, and it now re¬
mains to be seen whether any public body in Barrow will bestir them¬
selves in the matter.
Clairvoyance.—Mr. Henly, of 429, Oxford-street, writes to us that
a meeting was held at Dr. Nicholl’s Hygienic Establishment, 429,
Oxford-street, London, on Saturday evening, October 6th, to receive a
communication from him in reference to the formation of “ a school
of clairvoyance, where sensitives may be developed free of cost, and
their services utilised afterwards for the purpose of spreading abroad
a more general knowledge of spirit-communion.” Mr. Henly says
that he is a powerful mesmerist, and believes that he can develope
clairvoyants—that he intends to sit daily with his pupils, and, so soon
as they become fairly developed, he will invite the Spiritualists first,
and afterward the general public, to attend his lectures, and witness
the facts. He purposes using clairvoyance for the diagnosing of disease ;
and he states that he has already received promises of support from
gome of the medical fraternity.
I SEANCES IN MANCHESTER.
BY CHARLES BLACKBURN.
Again I have Miss Cook here to show her power to my
| friends. The dark sittings are most convincing, because any
| on<3 person can hold the medium alone, yet disturbances still
! go on, to their amazement and amusement. A few stances
I of this kind are the A B C to those who disbelieve, and are
! of great use before they are allowed to see a materialisation.
Lillie, the spirit, came forth last night, led my daughter into
the cabinet, and then vanished in semi-light; the medium
! was in a trance in a chair, and in a silk dress, whilst the
| spirit previously had let us feel her own white cotton dress.
| The cabinet was formed in a corner of my library with an
| iron rod, seven feet from the floor, supporting two green
| baize curtains with rings.
On another occasion myself and daughter decided to do
without the curtains, so we took them down, and placed the
medium in a large arm-chair in the corner, and turned the
gas nearly out, sitting only a yard and a half from the
| medium. We continued talking to her to keep her con-
i scious, for ten minutes, and when we ceased, the spirit Lillie
I said, in her usual small voice, “ I’ve just put my medium
into a trance, so now I can get on ; but I tried whilst she was
| conscious.” I called out, “ Katie, are you in a trance ? ”
I but no reply. So we set the musical box going, and in a
j few minutes, although in a dim light, we saw in front of our
I knees, and about half a yard high, something white. I sup-
I posed it to be clothing, and shortly it elongated and became
| animated to the size or thereabouts of the medium. I said,
“ Lillie, is that you ? ” She replied, ff Yes, but don’t touch
| me yet.” For some time she kept stroking her white clothing
| downwards, and then gave my daughter and myself her hands
| to feel that she was complete. She then passed us and went
| and opened the door of the room a few inches, but instantly
! dashed it to, owing to the great gaslight in the lobby.
I then said, “ Let me go and touch the medium.” She
! replied, “ Wait a minute.” I did so. She then said, “ Now
I come.” I quickly rose from my seat, and, as I approached,
| the form and white clothing vanished, but there in the chair
I was the medium, in deep sleep ; and, as I touched her face,
and arms, and hands, she started and moaned as if in pain.
The spirit, though I could see nothing, said, “ Go and sit
down, and send Miss Blackburn to feel that the medium is
here in her usual dress.” I did so, and when we both were
j comfortably seated again on our chairs, out again came the
| white form, as perfect as before.
I said, “ Lillie, I must and will have more light.” She
| replied, “ I don’t care myself, but it is hurtful to my medium ;
but put a little on.” So I went to the gas-tap, and with my
eyes towards the medium I awkwardly turned a lot on.
The medium instantly shrieked out; her arms and legs were
| moving like windmills, and the spirit again vanished. I
j turned down the light quickly, and the spirit called me to
come and take hold of both hands of the medium for a few
I minutes, to sooth her. I did so ; she gradually became calm,
and the spirit said, p Good night.” Thus ended the stance.
On the 11th October, on my daughter and Miss Cook
| retiring to bed, they asked Lillie to write something during
the night; so they took a sheet of note paper, and marked it
in two places, and put it, with a pencil, in a drawer. Then,
! after half an hour’s conversation in bed, Lillie spoke and
! said, m Miss Blackburn, light the gas, for I have written
something; ” they did so, and here is the message, but of no
| value except as another fact:—
“To Miss Blackburn . —I have nothing to tell you, hut I just write to
show you what power I have, and to thank you for your kindness to
Katie and myself. I shall give you some rough manifestations at night.
—Lillie Gordon.”
Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester, Oct. 14th, 1877.
Miss Ella Dietz at Brixton.—Last evening Miss Ella Dietz, of the
Theatre Royal, Haymarket, assisted by Mr. Frank Dietz, gave a very
j interesting and successful “ Evening with the Poets,” at the Angell
Town Institution, Brixton. Miss Dietz possesses considerable histrionic
| power, and her readings were marked by both force and intelligence.
Her selection of pieces, too, showed her to have a cultivated taste,
| which the audience were not slow to appreciate. “The Lady of
j Shalott” (Tennyson), “The Romaunt of the Page,” and “Mother and
Poet” (Mrs. Browning), “The Swineherd” (Hans Christian Andersen),
and three pieces by Bret Harte were given creditably,—South London
i Press.
188
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 10, 1877.
INDEPENDENT SLATE WETTING A DEMONSTEABLE
FACT.
BY EPES SARGENT.
I am here, on a brief visit, at our great American water¬
ing-place, to make trial of the waters and the invigorating
autumnal air. Saratoga is deserted by its throng of
fashionable visitors, and the large hotels are closed; but
those who want to combine fine weather with benefit from
the waters are wise, I think, in coming now.
As confirmatory of the account which I sent you last week
of the plain, irresistible proofs of independent slate writing,
which I got through Mr. 0. E. Watkins on the 18th of this
month, at 46, Beach-street, Boston, I herewith send, copied
from The Banner of Light of to-day, a brief and pithy state¬
ment of his own experiences, Sept. 14th, 1877, with Wat¬
kins by my friend and neighbour, John Wetherbee.
Nothing could be more satisfactory than his test. He
took two fresh, newly bought slates, of his own, placed them
together, bored holes with a gimlet through the four sides
of the wooden rims of each, inserted twine through the
holes, and thus tied the slates firmly together. All this was
done before he went to the medium. I saw the slates in
this condition. Before trying them he had placed between
the inside surfaces a small crumb of slate pencil. The
medium did not even touch or see the inside of those slates,
on which the writing came, till after the writing had been
produced. How came it there if not by some supersensible
process ?
A case like this, confirmed as it is by similar testimony
from hundreds of disinterested persons, must satisfy the
many competent witnesses in England to the phenomena
through Slade, that independent slate writing is a demon¬
strated fact, and that a host of Lankesters and Carpenters
cannot, by their mere theories, however clever and ingenious,
invalidate proofs which are now so abundant that none but
the bigot can deny their force and conclusiveness.
And yet what opposition these demonstrable facts have to
encounter! Our newspaper press seems determined that
they shall not even have a hearing. I wrote out a brief,
succinct account of my experiences with Watkins, proving
this wonderful fact of an intelligent power at work inde¬
pendently of any known visible organism or physical brain,
and sent it, signed with name and address, to one of our
leading daily newspapers. It was incontinently rejected.
The editor, it would seem, did not want his readers to know
that such facts were even credited by any number of intelli¬
gent persons. In his newspaper he had diligently vilified
Slade ever since the Lankester affair, and now, anything
that seemed to prove that the medium was not the ff( im¬
pudent pretender” that the said newspaper had represented
him to be, was repudiated as unfit for its respectable
columns.
If I had sent a stack of manuscript descriptive of the
last base ball match, or a graphic account of the Saratoga
races, how welcome my communication would have been,
and how speedily given out to the compositors 1 But my
facts were of a kind to show that there are supersensuous
powers in man; that the fact of spirit existence is more
than probable; that the Haeckels, the Yogts, the Buchners,
and the Feuerbachs are in the wrong, and the “ babes and
simpletons,” who have ever regarded their departed dear
ones as still existing in the human form are in the right—
and therefore my statement was rejected as unworthy to
appear on the same sheet with records of the last game at
billiards, or a full description of the last theatrical extrava¬
ganza.
Well, every one to his taste, the editor will plead, pro¬
bably, “ It is the fault of the public—of my readers—they
don’t want any of these cock-and-bull stories about inde¬
pendent slate writing.”
And by such ostrich wisdom—such shutting the eyes and
the mind to stupendous and notorious facts—we are repulsed
in our attempts to give the world the benefit of a knowledge
of a great phenomenon of nature—of a subject which I agree
with Mr. Frederic Tennyson in characterising as “ the great
subject of the age.”
If the gentle public are thus to be kept in leading strings
by the editors who dislike our facts, and would stamp them
out, I hope that newspaper readers generally will not be
j|j kept in entire ignorance of the tutelage to which they are to
| | be subjected. Fortunately for the truth, the army of wit-
| | nesses is daily increasing; and as well might Messieurs, the
I daily editors, attempt to reverse belief in the Oopernican
| j system as to check the growth of belief in these demon-
| | strable phenomena, that belong to science, and are facts of
| | nature which our every-day experience is verifying, and
| | which must soon form the materials for a new psychology
| j pregnant with the grand, inspiring fact of man’s inherent
| | immortality.
111 Saratoga Springs, New York, United States of America,
| | Sept. 29th, 1877.
| | A TRANCE COMMUNICATION.
|i (through MRS. woodforde’s mediumship.)
i I In giving forth my medial experiences, I do so from a necessity
| | which impels me to endeavour to be useful to others, so far as lies within
I j I my power. I say a necessity, for active usefulness is absolutely essential
i j to spiritual health. If I could do no more than scrub a room, that
| | others might enjoy its cleanliness, it would be necessary for me to per-
111 form even that lowly use to the best of my ability.
One mind cannot obtain all truth in infinite perfection. It takes
(| many tiles to pave a floor, and multitudinous bits are employed in one
| pattern of mosaic ; therefore, truth or knowledge from the spirit-world
| comes through many minds; and when, by perfect knowledge, we have
| eliminated imperfections, we shall behold much of the plan followed by
| Divine Wisdom in the creation of the world. To this end I present my
I humble contributions, imperfect as they may be.
I A stranger spirit was introduced by the guardian spirits, who we
| were informed had never been incarnated. I was permitted to see him.
| Let us suppose that he showed me a form to which my powers of con-
| ception were adequate. Whatever shape he might wear to beings like
: i himself, to me he appeared in a human fluidic body of exquisite mould
j I and fairness. The whole face was a smile; and joy, innocence, intelli-
i I gence, and benignity beamed in the glance of his eye. As I looked, two
| j iridescent little pinions seemed to spring from his shoulders, and, sud-
| | denly expanding, wrapped the whole of his form in an airy vapour of
I | rainbow hues.
i | He said to me—“ I will try to teach you something. I wish that my
|| | coming may be a source of happiness to you. Call me when you will, I
111 will come. When you are sad, when your spirit sighs under the
II ] oppressiveness of earth, then call for me. I will come and wrap you
| | round with joy in the fresh exhilarating breeze. I love light, life,
|! | activity. Call me Aremel.’’
| I Aremel took an early opportunity to fulfil his promise, for very shortly
i | afterwards, when I sat with a friend for communion with the spirits, he
| | announced himself, and, putting me in the trance, gave a long address,
| j whilst my friend wrote as from his dictation:—
Hi “At the bidding of one greater than I am I come to give you some
! | little instruction. I have drawn the spirit of the medium forth from her
j | body by the power of my will, and I have entered into her to speak
| | through her lips, to use her brain so far as I can, to tell you of things
| i which I know. Bear in mind that spiritual ideas far transcend the
| I power of your language to convey. Language is the effort of spirit to
| j j convey ideas from one mind to another; but from the poverty of your
III languages ideas suffer in transmission, and cannot be conveyed in their
| | fulness. In our state of existence thought passes from mind to mind
i | fully and perfectly. It would be as easy to cause the ocean to flow
j through a small tube, as to give the knowledge of angels through the
| J | mind of a mortal. No language is rich or full enough, no life is long
j | enough. It will not be possible for me to give more than you can receive.
11J I must clothe spiritual ideas in earthly language, and where I perceive
I | they transcend your comprehension, I must either withhold them alto-
i i gether, or so present them in words that they may come within the
111 grasp of your mind.
“ In the first place I will endeavour to give you some idea of my
|| i nature and state of existence. The robe of flesh I now wear, in the
j ! body of the medium, seems to me narrow and constraining ; the brain
j | is inadequate to the reception of my intelligence, and narrows its ex-
j j pression. I am accustomed to expand my spirit through vast spaces,
| | to make myself responsive and sympathetic with myriads and myriads
j i of beings. I love to know of the existence of many, and to embrace and
| | hold much within the grasp of my comprehension and knowledge; and
! ! my spirit is of that universally diffusive nature that it is as easy to me
| as to a mother upon your earth to feel, know, understand, and sympathise
j | with the necessities, perfections or imperfections of her children. Thus
j j I become a sort of smaller spirit-father beneath the All-Father—a lesser
| | god in the angelic department over which I hold sway. There are many
! employed like myself. The spirit of God entering into us and making;
| j | us one with Himself, we are powers in that universe which has pro-
i i ceeded from Him, and are accustomed to find our great happiness in
I j | controlling the elements of the material world under the direction of His-
j 11 Mighty Spirit, which, from our perfect oneness with Him, has come to-
j|| be like our own minds. I cannot tell whether I make this great subject
| I plain to you ; but I will try to present to you an image. God is like the-
!|! sun—we are the rays proceeding from that sun. God is the central
111 fountain of life, which continually flowing forth from Himself becomes;
| j the universe, in which we, His children, whether spirits or mortals, find
| ! the bliss of existence. Proceeding out from Him, the divine central
| j fountain, these life-streams (I will call them) reach at lasttheir final point,.
! 11 and become condensed, or solidified in what you call matter, or the world
Hi of forces. Upon this circumstantial plane are your planets—earths*
[i | where life is carried on in the more cumbrous material of perishable
Oct. 19, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
189
bodies, which are the mere shells of spirit. Here there is constant j
change. Things appear to your finite senses to be destroyed, but nothing j
is ever lost, and one substance is being constantly transmuted into another;
for it is the activity of indestructible spirit, which finding one form of j
expression on the material plane useless, takes at once another. Upon j
this ultimate plane occur those extraordinary convulsions of nature j
which are designed to restore disturbed equilibrium, and these are under
the direction of spirits like myself. This material plane is full of the
greatest interest to us higher ones. It is as a fulcrum upon which the j
great lever—spirit—moves; it is the plane of uses; it is a field for the j
exercise of what you call ‘ forces ’—I call ‘ spirit,’ for all is spirit or i
God. It is that point to which spirit tends to work out perfection, and
becomes the ground for the feet of spirit (if you can understand me),
upon which it treads, and from which alone it can spring back again to
God. This material plane, one might say, is the necessity of God, or
the spirit, in the outworking of the great plan of creation. It is its |
body, its continent, its field of action in the complete perfection of the |
ultimate, or end, for what has a beginning must have an end, an interior |
an exterior, or that which contains, and serves as a kind of covering, or
protection: Nothing is lost to God, for from this last circumference to
which spirit extends He draws all back again to Himself, and His life
is continually flowing out and into the whole, preserving it in the health¬
ful activities of His endlessly creative Spirit. No words can convey to
you the grandeur and sublimity of the scene this material plane presents
to us, and the inexhaustible interest it excites. You would think that
to us, accustomed to the grandeur of heavenly scenes, it would be little
and insignificant; but you must remember that here, too, we see God.
We are also the appointed ministers for carrying out His work, and that
is by no means insignificant. Following out the workings of spirit per¬
fecting itself on the ultimate plane, tracing out the plans of the Divine
mind in creation, being inspired and filled with those plans ourselves,
burning with activity and zeal, or ineffable joy in the fullness of benefi¬
cent power given to us to carry out the Creator’s will, in all this we
learn what God is—the great Father who gave us being, and in whom
we live and move. And then from His very life, of which we again are
the expressions, we have the infinite happiness of helping, aiding, and
inspiring those beneath us, or who are less full of divine life; It is
with supreme,'inexpressible joy we feel the divine power go out of us to
bless and renew. I can give you in the short time allotted to me but
the smallest outline of what I would convey; but I will try to give you
ideas, clothed in the simplest words I can command, upon which your
mind may work afterwards.
if Life in proceeding from God, the ever out-flowing but self-filling
fountain, cannot return to Him without purification. It must return in
beings capable of conceiving divine life, pure enough to share and enjoy
it; in short, made like unto the Father. Life in proceeding from God
becomes more and more gross until it becomes the opposite, or the
reverse of the divine spring, from which it emanated, that is, it becomes
the physical or natural world. Here the indwelling spirit clothes itself in a
variety of forms—gaseous, mineral, vegetable, and human—from the lowest
and most imperfect condition or embodiment, gradually assuming more
and more power for the expression of spirit by all the various growths
or processes through which it passes, until it reaches the human form,
the highest possible embodiment of spirit. When I use the terms
‘ life ’ or ‘ spirit ’ I mean the same thing. The end of creation is the
heaven of angels, beings who are like unto the Father from whom they
proceeded, who are inheritors of His greatness, and to each of whom
is given as much power of beneficence as he is capable of receiving.
Spirit must take form; the human is the highest and the most perfect;
the Divine spirit ever shows itself in heaven in the angelic human form.
The highest of angels never descend into the flesh, but are spontaneous
embodiments of the spirit of God, rendered necessary in the direction
and government of the Universe. The beneficent power of these angels
is felt to the outermost circumferences of spirit; and they infill and
sway numberless other angels, who are a little less near the divine
centre, as servants or agents in their God-appointed work. I belong to
one of these secondary groups. These mighty ones are to us the Father,
and are absorbed in Him. No eye has ever beheld, or can behold, God
as He is in Himself—the one, great, everlasting Soul—the origin of all
things, but in these divine human forms He is ever coming into the midst
of His children. These angels form the innermost and highest circle of
divine life, such as we may understand it.
“ Upon the outermost circumference of spirit, or the material plane,
are the systems of planets. Each system is under the guardianship of
a body of angels, who form One Power. Some members of this body
descend upon planets under their care, to approach nearer to the pro¬
gressing souls, in order to teach them of divine life; because they are so
sunk in the flesh, that if it were not for the constant care of the higher
spirits, human beings in the flesh might come to lose all sense of God.
“ It is difficult for the human mind to conceive how many beings can,
from a condition of absolute harmony, be so infilled with the Spirit of
God as to form but One Power, which is indeed to be Sons of God.
One proceeding from this vast celestial company is equal to the whole
in divinity of nature, and, in descending upon the earth, expresses God
as well as He can be expressed to mortals. These angel-teachers ever
point the way to the Father—that is, teach mortals how to subdue the
animal nature, and obtain divinity, or the angelic nature; Upon this
subject I can now say no more.
“ I have merely given you an outlined sketch of certain spiritual
truths. Another time I may be able to amplify, and fill in details.
“ I will now glance at another subject, for I wish to help you to see
still more beauty in the world you inhabit. I wish to teach you to look
within all things for the spirit. I wish you to see that external forms
are but the gross representations of the beauty of the infilling spirit. It
is the nature of spirit to develops itself, and on the lowest, or outermost
plane of life, it is continually growing into new forms, and into higher
and more perfect life-experiences. Spirit permeates all nature, and the
forms of mineral, vegetable, or animal life you see before you are the
gross external expressions of the degree of progression to which the
indwelling spirit has attained. Spirit-eyes behold the indwelling spirit,
and perceive how exactly the external shape is adapted to the wants
and necessities of its existence on the material plane. In these forms, a
wonderfully subtle and sublime wisdom is displayed, wherein we read
our Father’s glorious mind. This is a vast and inexhaustible theme,
upon which much knowledge, I hope, may be given you from various
sources.
“ As the highest external form is the human, for God takes no other
form in heaven to the eyes of His angels, so in all the lower types of
spirit embodied in various forms on the earth, there is always more or
less tendency to the human form, however unlike the external shapes
may be to your mortal sight. When you have before your eyes a beau¬
tiful flower, there is an imperfect little spirit, in the infancy of develop¬
ment, embodied in the plant from which the flower has been plucked.
From the seed-rootlet it has gradually expanded into the most perfect
expression of its soul-life in matter, and can reach no higher perfection
in that embodiment. The little imperfect spirit, as yet unconscious,
can nevertheless receive impressions, which impressions educate or
develope it a short step towards intelligence. Before advancing to a
higher embodiment the plant has ripened seeds from which other plants
like itself may spring, and thus it leaves behind it the means of higher
development to spirits lower than itself in the scale of ascension.
“ This development of spirit through repeated embodiments is the
inevitable law of life on the material plane. An immensity of happiness
is experienced in the progression through different forms ; but as there
is the reverse to every picture, vicissitudes, sorrow, and pain are also
experienced. Suffering is the grand purifier, and is an indispensable
agent in progression; but the higher the intelligence the more poignant
the suffering.
“When spirit has completed the circle from God back to God again,
when it has attained the stature of the angel, it has become, by the long
road of progression, conqueror over pain, sorrow, darkness, death; and
in this particular has grown to be like unto God.
“ Could you behold this world of matter as we do, who are behind
the veil, it would be to you a scene of fairylike enchantment, except
where poor, ignorant man, self-degraded, has surrounded himself with
deformity. It is true there is sorrow, suffering, and death ; but from
the graves of that suffering and death rises the invigorated spirit into
higher existence.
“ Eemember, when you tend your pets, when you gather your
flowers, it is so much life which God has placed in your hands, over
which you have power like so many lesser gods. Let your heart, then,
go forth in loving compassion to all these smaller lives. Eemember,
they are surely progressing to something higher; that you may be like
a beneficent god to them, or, on the other hand, a cruel tyrant; for by
your treatment you insensibly educate them, and aid them to reach a
higher state of existence. And if ever, of necessity, their death must
come by your hand, let it be done with gentle pity and tenderness.”
An undertaker of Dallas, named Linskie, disinterred the remains of a
man whose family was unable to pay the funeral expenses, removed
them from the casket, and reinterred them in a pauper’s coffin. Linskie
afterwards destroyed the casket. We have not before heard of a similar
transaction. Linskie can pass up head.—Corsicana Index.
To oub Eeadeks in New York.—In future this journal will not be
supplied to casual subscribers in New York, but to those only who take
it in regularly. Those who require its continuous supply are requested
to give their orders, accompanied by remittances, to Mr. Channing D.
Miles, 123, West 40th Street, New York, or to send their subscriptions
to one of the London offices of The Spiritualist.
The Library of the National Association of Spiritualists.—
| Several Spiritualists have promised £6 towards increasing the number
| of books in the Lending Library of the National Association of Spirit-
| ualists, 38, Great Eussell-street, London, but have done so on con-
| dition that a sum of not less than ,£12 shall be contributed altogether,
i Others are therefore requested to enter their names as contributors.
| To those who wish to present works to the Permanent Library, we may
! state that it is specially lacking in books of reference, in foreign and
| English dictionaries, and in dictionaries of science, art, literature, re¬
ligion, biography, dates, geography, and so on. A complete set of
| Beeton’s various books of reference would be of considerable use.
I Complete sets of all the spiritual periodicals which have ever been
published in Australia or America should be presented to Library for
preservation, and for the permanent use of the public. A set of the
English Spiritual Times is also wanted, likewise all the new and old
Acts of Parliament, which might be called into use for the prosecu¬
tion and persecution of mediums.
“ Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism.”—Dr. Eugene
j Crowell’s book with the foregoing title, is taking the lead in this country
] as the chief standard work in connection with Spiritualism.- Some
Spiritualists keep it for the purpose of lending it to their friends, and
| during the last London season there was more demand for it from the
Lending Library of the National Association of Spiritualists than for
any other book; the copies of it in that library were almost constantly
out, in the hands of readers. Not only is the book well written, but Dr.
! Crowell has attended a great number of seances, and after first making
! sure of the accuracy of his facts, has drawn from them those conclusions
| only which they reasonably warrant; on this account the book com¬
mends itself to the scientific mind. Then, again, instead of painting
| Spiritualism as Vandalism prepared to upset everything, and to tear down
the good and bad alike of the culture and religious sentiment inherited
from past ages, he presents it as primitive Christianity divested of all the
artificialities imposed upon it by man. This method tends to disarm
I prejudice, and has truth as its foundation.
Tkti SPlRITtfALISl\
Oct. 1877.
190
^oeirg.
SPIRIT COMMUNION.
Out! from darkness, gloom and sadness,
And the weary, sinking heart,
Into life and light and gladness
Which celestial souls impart,
From that land beyond the river,
Land of God, the Beauty-Giver.
Surely earth is but phantasmal,
Symbol of a higher state ;
Matter melts to rings all plasmal,
We have but to search and wait
Till death rends the veil in twain,
And friends long lost be found again.
Not even to wait—for oft at eve
The spirit-sphere is joined with ours,
And those loved friends for whom we grieve
Strew our earth-path with heavenly flowers;
We see them, hear thorn, clasp their hand,
Sure pledge of Love’s immortal land.
Out! from darkness, gloom and sadness,
And the weary, sinking heart,
Into light and life and gladness
Which celestial souls impart,
From that land beyond the river,
Land of God, the Beauty-Giver.
Lucerne, December, 1876. A. J. C.
OtorreaponTiettce.
[Great freedom, U given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be keptby the writers
FORTNIGHTLY SPIRITUALISTIC MEETINGS IN DALSTON.
Sir,—Will you kindly grant me a small space in your columns to
invite the presence of all persons interested in the study of mesmerism,
Spiritualism, and cognate matters, at the forthcoming winter fortnightly
Monday evening discussion meetings, to be held at the Rooms of the
Ralston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, on and after the 5th
of November next until the end of April, 1878. In affording increased
facilities for debate, without interfering with the ordinary weekly Thurs¬
day evening seances, the Council hopes that the opportunity now pre¬
sented may meet with the general appreciation of the members, and that
every effort will be made to create a lively interest in the proceedings,
by the introduction of their friends and acquaintances to the meetings.
Members and others are invited to contribute original papers, reports
of individual experiences, notes of experimental research, or other
matter suitable for discussion at the forthcoming Monday evening meet¬
ings. Those who are willing to aid the Association in this direction
during the coming winter season, are respectfully requested to commu¬
nicate with the undersigned, in order that dates may be fixed as far in
advance as possible. Thomas Blyton, Hon. Sec.
Rooms :—53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane, Ralston, London, E.
12th October, 1877.  
SUGGESTIONS FROM CAPE TOWN.
Sir,—I send you a few lines to let you know that Spiritualism pro¬
gresses in this part of the world. Bishop Rickards, of the Roman
Catholic Church, Graham’s Town, has been ventilating the subject by
lecturing on it. He acknowledges the facts and the power of communi¬
cating with spirits once in the flesh, but believes them to be the work of
Satan. This lecture roused the press to opposition, which resulted in
drawing the Bishop out in several letters, which he wrote to the papers.
It is amusing to see how fearfully sceptical people are. When I show
some people my slate-writing, with the seals on the slates intact, and
when I state the tests under which I obtained the messages, they coolly
say I must have been tricked or hallucinated, and that they would not
believe it should they see the same thing. Nothing in the world would
convince such, so the best way is to allow them to wallow in their
egotism and scepticism.
The cause in England is in a flourishing condition, and in such hands
as “ M.A. (Oxon),” Rr. Carter-Blake, Rr. Nicholls, and hosts of others
well known as advanced thinkers and educated men, it cannot fail to
progress. I should like the British National Association of Spiritualists
to secure the services of a powerful physical medium for nothing but its
own seances, and pay him, say, £250 or £300 a year to be able to live
comfortably, and to be independent altogether of the outside world. By
this means Spiritualism might be better promulgated. - It should invite
two or three influential persons, who are willing to investigate at ten
or twelve sittings, on condition that should there be nothing to convince
them during the sittings, they are not to consider the subject as
finally settled.
A sort of “ Esoteric Circle ” should be formed, and candidates for
admission should be introduced into the facts by passing through several
initiatory stages, the managers preparing each candidate by posting him
up previous to the sittings. There is plenty of influence at home to
secure the presence of a few leading men whose testimony would go a
good way. I will gladly give towards this object my £1 Is. a year for
five years, and think every real Spiritualist (who can afford it) will do
the same. Surely there are 300 to be found in England who will do
this. Ro, Mr. Editor, think over this idea. A good medium like Rr.
Monck, Williams, or Miss Wood might be secured, for say six months
or a year, and should the person selected deserve it, he or she might then
be re-engaged. The great secret of success is to get a medium who
joins heartily in the plan. There should be twelve persons, including
the medium, to attend, say, a series of twelve sittings in a month (three
times a week), seven adepts (thorough Spiritualists), and four neophytes.
Should there be nothing convincing in the twelve sittings, then try again
for six more.
Every month seven other adepts might be selected with four more
neophytes. This would give us on the average, say, one hundred sittings
a year, and during that time surely some of the candidates would have
received some convincing tests. Of course your readers would receive
an official report, say every two weeks, of what took place. 1 hope
“ M. A. (Oxon),” and other influential Spiritualists, will think over my
desultory ideas, and try to do something. I shall be pleased to hear the
opinions of others on this subject. We must try to do something in an
official way. Berks T. Hutchinson.
Cape Town, South Africa, Sept. 18th, 1877.
astrology.
Sir,—Allow me to direct the attention of those of your readers who
have been interested in the letters under the above head in The Spirit¬
ualist, to an article in the September number of the Dublin University
Magazine, entitled “ Lost Elements of Ancient Lore.” To those who
believe that spirit underlies all matter, there will be no difficulty in
believing that the earth and other planets act and react upon each other
spiritually, as physical science proves they do materially. This view of
the case is well put in a communication headed “Sympathy and
Spiritual Affinity” in the Medium of the 21st September, apparently
in reply to a previous communication under the same heading.
When it shall be recognised that there is a material and a spiritual side
to every science—to all knowledge an outer and inner meaning—as
astronomy, i.e., “star (mechanical) law” is the material aspect of the
science of the heavenly bodies, so may “astrology,” i.e., “star-speech,”
when properly cultivated, develope into the spiritual aspect of the same
science. H. M.
Bath, October 12th, 1877. -
SPIRITUALISM in IRELAND.
Sir,—I have left Kilkeel, and said adieu to my warm-hearted friend,
the solitary Spiritualist of the place, with his well-stocked library of
books. That library contains many valuable and rare books on the
occult in life and being, including Spiritualism, modern, mediaeval, and
ancient, side by side with Sir Walter Scott’s Demonology, and Howitt’s
History of the Supernatural, as well as works on mesmerism, anthro¬
pology, hydropathy, homoeopathy, and such-like modern heresies. This
gentleman never saw the slightest phenomenon in connection with
Spiritualism or mesmerism, yet takes an intense interest in both sub¬
jects, and is thoroughly read up in them pro and con. He was delighted
with the two mesmeric seances I gave, the subjects operated upon being
his brother, his two servants, and himself.
In order to get to Newcastle (Ireland), where the next railway dep6t
is, we had to ride upon a “ jaunting car.” The weather was fine, and
the scenery beautiful. On one side of the road could be seen farmers
and their people busily stacking wheat and corn, and thrashing was
going on, both by machinery and by hand. Upon the other side of the
road rolled in unbroken, the waves of the Irish Sea, along a shore which
extended the whole length of our route. Half-way between Kilkeel and
Newcastle I had pointed out to me the residence of a lady whose
spirit-husband was said in the neighbourhood to visit her. She is a
well-known Spiritualist.
I find that a reverend gentleman, a Spiritualist, or who at least was
one, the former editor of an English periodical now dead for want of
Christian support, has been in this neighbourhood, and was made
fully acquainted with the above story of the ghostly visitor. He sowed
some seeds of Spiritualism whilst in the neighbourhood, which I find
even at this time have not been sown in vain. I also find good work to
have been done by the tracts and books of Mr. John Scott, of Belfast, an
agricultural implement manufacturer by business, but a writing medium by
choice. This indefatigable gentleman’s pamphlets, tracts, and books on
the subject of Spiritualism, I have met with scattered profusely through¬
out different parts of England, and I find he has disseminated them
with no niggard hand in this country. He must spend a fortune
in this way, for he will send a large parcel of his publications to any per¬
son whom he has reason to believe will honestly distribute them. I
think it is only just to acknowledge the unselfish labours of this gentle¬
man, who works for the love of what he esteems to be honest and true,
without the inducement of earthly fee or reward. Ballynacreedy, where I
am at present stopping, contains in the person of a humble farm labourer,
a natural healer or mesmerist in disguise. He works charms and cures
sick people by blowing, rubbing, and passes, and is wonderfully success¬
ful. He reads strange books for a man in his position, and has superior
knowledge to many of his masters, the farmers. He is in great requisi¬
tion as a horse and cattle doctor besides.
The following story will bear investigation. Old Dr. Corry, of Belfast,
whose skill as a veterinary surgeon is of no mean order, had under his
care a horse with a broken-out fetlock, bad knees, and running sores;
the doctor failed to make a cure in this particular instance, and the
horse, which was valued at £80 before it was taken ill, was sold by its
owner to a Mr. Samuel Johnstone, farmer, in this neighbourhood, for
thirty shillings. The aforesaid farm labourer was sent for by the
farmer, who knew him by report, to see what he could do for the horse.
He proceeded to work with a bucket of hot water and some old flannel,
and he washed the sores well, eased the pain from which the poor horse
was suffering, then “mesmerised” the places by “passes in contact.”
The inflammation subsided, the swelling became less ; every three hours
the first day was the treatment continued. Next day the horse was put
to work with the plough, but the treatment continued as before. At the
end of the week there was not a running sore to be found upon him, and
Oct. 19, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
191
he was well able to work, but the animal was too good for field labour. [J j
It came to Dr. Corry’s ears that the horse was better; he came and saw 11 j
the horse, bought it again, and paid Mr. Johnstone £20 for the animal, j] j
which cost him only thirty shillings six weeks before. Dr. Corry said that j (j
what completely puzzled him was that after he, with all his knowledge, j |
medical skill, and experience had failed, how an ignorant farm labourer ] |
could succeed, and that, too, without any medicine. j j
I am getting together some very interesting information concerning | j
“lementary spirits.” “ Lementary philosophers,” that is, those who ]j
invoke these spirits, in this part of the country, are persons who never j j
heard of elementary spirits, or of the Theosophical Society of New York, j
or of the wonders of Ghost-land, or the visions of gnomes and elves j!
in Cornish mines or elsewhere, as recorded by Emma Hardinge Britten |
or Catherine Woodforde. Neither have they heard of the “ diakka ” of j
A. J. Davis, another now well-known visionary. As soon as I have j
sifted this curious matter, I will forward the account to your paper. j j
Before concluding these hasty lines, I may mention a lady mesmerist jji
in London, who is also known in connection with the anti-vaccination | j |
movement, has a patient here under her treatment, and as soon as she | j j
found that the patient was not. in a position to pay anything she has | JI
generously continued her treatment, even forwarding her 9 specifics ” j j
without charging for postage. I sincerely wish success to all healers j I
who work in this way, for no true healer can refuse a case simply because j j j
the patient is poor as well as sick. Belfast is my next stopping place, j J
JV Coates. j
Ballynacreedy, Ireland. —-" ' ■ j j |
MESMERISM. j
Sir,—The following lines, so happily expressed, were written by an | |
accomplished lady, more than thirty years ago, and published in the ! j
Rev. G. Sandby’s book, Mesmerism and its Opponents, which work is f
unfortunately out of print. These lines were written at a time when i j i
Mesmerism was undergoing the same ordeal that Spiritualism is now ! j
passing through, viz., the reproach of Satanic agency. j j
ON HEARING MESMERISM CALLED IMPIOUS. j
Call not the gift unholy; ’tis a fair—a precious thing, (|
That God hath granted to our hands, for gentlest minist’ring. (!
Did Mercy ever stoop to bless with dark unearthly spell ? ] j
Could impious power whisper peace, the soul’s deep throes to quell ? M
Would Evil seek to work hut good—to lull the burning brain, |) ]
And linger in some scene of woe, beside the bed of pain— i j ]
To throw upon the o’er-fraught heart the blessing of repose— j j i
Untiring watch the eye of care in healing slumber close— . jji
And as the agony of grief fell ’neath the Spirit’s will, j) i
O’er the wild billows of despair breathe tenderly—Be still ? {i
Speak gently of the new-born gift, restrain the scoff and sneer, 1 (
And think how much we may not learn as yet around us here; i j
What paths there are where Faith must lead, that Knowledge cannot share j)
Though still we tread the devious way, and feel that truth is there. j!
Say, is the world so full of joy—hath each so fair a lot, i j
That we should scorn one bounteous gift, and, scorning, use it not, n
Because the finite thought of man grasps not its hidden source ? jj
Do we reject the stream, because we cannot track its course? ijj
Hath Nature, then, no mystic law we seek in vain to scan?
Can man, the master-piece of God, trace the unerring plan i j
That places o’er the restless sea the bounds it cannot pass; ! j
That gives the fragrance to the flower, the “ glory to the grass ? ” |
Oh 1 Life with all its fitful gleams hath sorrow for its dower, I
And with the wrung heart dwell the pang and many a weary hour.
Hail, then, with gladness what may soothe the aching brain to rest; i
And call not impious that which brings a blessing and is blest. )
The gladden’d soul re-echoes praise where’er this power hath been ; j
And what in mercy God doth give, 0 “ call not thou unclean.” J
Tottenham, October, 1877. J. James;
REINCARNATION.
Sir,—Wishing to send a letter to my spirit friends, John and Katie i j
King, may I hope that you will convey it to them through the columns I
of your widely-read periodical P j
Dear John and Katie, I send you greeting. You must recollect when, !
after a series of about twenty seances, we last met in London, it was at Dr. i j
Perrin’s, on the evening of 24th October, 1871. On that occasion I asked you, j j
John, whether I could rely on your being the original, the real John King, jj
who had been in the flesh as Sir Henry Morgan, Governor of Jamaica. Your jj
reply was, “ Of course I am the real John King; but I must tell you that j
about four centuries ago I was an Italian nobleman of great wealth and power, j j
When we meet again I will tell you my story.” Following the conversation, I ! j
asked you another question which must have displeased you, a.s in a stentorian j j
voice you exclaimed, “ Not a bit of it! not a bit of it! ” and abruptly left the i j
circle. And you, dear Katie, you cannot have forgotten that, when John had j
left, you took up the thread of the conversation, saying, “ Yes, John was an ;j
Italian nobleman of the north of Italy, and it was on that occasion that he j j
knew me, who was then a Swiss girl.” Now, John, in The Spiritualist of 28th jj
September last, I find that besides Sir Henry Morgan and the Italian nobleman, !)
you have said that you lived also in the time of Queen Elizabeth, and were a | j
friend of Sir Walter Raleigh. We thus learn from your lips that you have j
been on this planet three times in about three centuries. What can that mean, jj
if not your threefold return into .the flesh, and that you, aware of the pre- i j
judice this doctrine meets with in England, are thus trying slily to insert the jj
reincarnation-wedge, waiting for better times to knock it in further? lam jj
not placing you on a two-horned dilemma, John, for one of the horns is so jj!
sharp that you must perforce hug the other and tell the whole truth. My ij
experience suggests that you must be a spirit of seven or eight incarnations : jj
you have already spoken of three, make a clean breast of it, and tell us of j j
the others. You have worked hard to teach Spiritualism to one generation, it j j
is now incumbent upon you to speak Spiritism to the rising one, which is jj
thirsting for new truths. Let not the fate of gentle spirit Ronalds dismay j j
you. You recollect how he was insulted and called a fib-teller for avowing jjj
that he was the reincarnation of a Persian Prince. No mortal who knows you j j
would insult you, John, lest your lively speaking-trumpet, which is now made jji
of brass, might fall heavily upon his imprudent head. Perhaps you will
require superior permission before you shake the tree; ask for it, and it will
be granted, for I am sure the pear is ripe. Give a hearty shake of the hand
for me to Tien-Sien-Tie, and thank him in my name for having ceased dis¬
coursing against the plurality of existences. I thought he would do so, and
foretold as much. (See Spintual Magazine for December, 1875, page 567.)
And let me remind you and him of the saying of a great Italian poet :—
Circumstances to meet,
The wise men alone
May change their mind,
When they think fit.
I expect a reply from you, either through the Banner of Light, or in any
public way you may choose. If no reply comes from you, I and all reincar-
nationists will take your silence as an assent to the truth of human palin-
genesy.—I remain, dear John and Katie, your elder brother (you know),
G. Damian i.
2, Vico del Vasto a Chiaia, Naples, 9th October, 1877.
“ NEHOSHTAN ”, AT UNIVERSITY COLLEGE.
An article by “ M. A., Oxen.,” in The JReligio-Philosophical Journal
(Chicago, September 22nd), has found a new name for Dr. Carpenter.
After pointing out the numerous scientific inaccuracies of which Mr. A.
R. Wallace has convicted Dr. Carpenter, the writer says :—
Now, what will be the effect of such an indictment as this preferred
against a man like Dr. Carpenter by one who signs at the foot of it a
name so well known and so weighty alike in influence and in respect as
that of Alfred R. Wallace? Will Dr. Carpenter justify himself? He
cannot; facts are against him, and have been for the last twenty years.
(So much the worse for the facts 1) Will he reply ? Not he! He will
ignore Mr. Wallace’s paper, as he has ignored many an inconvenient
fact before. Will he, then, be discredited before his scientific brethren ?
Not he; they all row in the same boat, with a few notable exceptions.
When next it occurs to him to “ take up his parable ” (I can’t say to
expound his scientific conclusion) about Spiritualism, he will be the
same glorious egotist that he has always been; he will manipulate his
arguments (or what does duty for them) with the same delicious disre¬
gard for all that he dislikes; he will meander on with the same insou¬
ciance through the flowery meads of imagination. ,
And “thrice he’ll conquer all his foes,
- And thrice he’ll slay the slain.”
If a man is impervious to such censure as Mr. Wallace’s, conveyed in
such precise tones of sustained dignity and suppressed indignation, he
is a pachyderm who must be left to history. There will come a time,
and that at no far distant date, when “ educated common sense of man¬
kind I will regard such treatment of facts, as Dr. C. is not ashamed to
indulge in, with amazed and not very respectful wonder. When the
historian goes back to the annals of the past, in order to throw light on
the early story of Spiritualism, he will read with indignation the record
of the manner in which the man who assumed the scientific guidance of
seekers after truth, and whose crusade war against “prepossession”
dealt, from his responsible position, with a phase of truth against which
his own rampant prepossessions were too evidently arrayed. It is to be
hoped that he will then get fairer treatment than he has meted out to
others. Till then he must go on in his current of mischief, with such
occasional interferences as those who know better than he does about
psychic subjects, can put in his way He must cling to his thrice-told
story—lecture, magazine article, book—which has doubtless served its
purpose of bringing grist to his mill, and for which no more appropriate
motto for a reviewer could be found than that which is recorded of the
brazen serpent, where Hezekiah labelled it as recorded in 2 Kings
xviii. 4: Nehoshtan (A Piece of Brass).
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun will be in England next month, but will
previously visit Paris.
Sunday Morning Meetings.-—Mr. W. J. Colville informs as that
he has engaged Doughty Hall, 14, Bedford-row, London, W.C., for
three Sunday mornings, October 21st, 28th, and November 4th, on
which occasions services will be held, commencing at 11.15 a.m. Mr.
Colville will each day deliver an inspirational discourse, followed by an
impromptu poem ; the listeners will be permitted to choose the sub¬
jects if they desire to do so. Every seat will be free, and a voluntary
collection will be made during the service. It is to be hoped Mr.
Colville will be well supported in his efforts.
Miss Kislingbury in America.—Mr. Alexander Calder has received
the following letter from Miss Kislingbury, Secretary to the National
Association of SpiritualistsAlbany, New York, Sept. 25th, 1877.—
Dear Mr. Calder,—Yesterday I received the news from New York that
a telegram had arrived giving me another month’s leave of absence from
England. Since I have been travelling about, I have had no letters
forwarded, because I was afraid of missing them, but I have now ordered
them to meet me at Niagara Falls, where I hope to arrive to-morrow.
I will not, however, lose another mail, but write at once, before starting
on my journey to-day, to beg you to convey my most grateful thanks for
this favour on the part of the Council, and for my appreciation of their
kindness and consideration. I also send my best thanks to those friends
who are looking after the work in my absence, and sincerely hope that
it will not entail any undue amount of trouble or labour. I am glad to
tell you that I am feeling much stronger and better in health, and hope
to return home quite renewed. The weather has been unusually warm
and fine for the time of year; I have only had one day’s rain since I
left New York about three weeks ago. I hope to return there by the
1st of October, when my address will be 302, West 47th Street. With
best regards to all friends, most truly yours, Emily Kislingbury.”
192
Oct. 19, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS. i
SEANCES FOR INQUIRERS. j)
On Wednesday evening, the 10th inst., this series of seances !)
was resumed at the Rooms of the British National Associa-
tion of Spiritualists, 88, Great Russell-street, London, when I
thirteen sitters assembled to meet Mr. 0. E. Williams, as |
medium. js
He was placed in a chair in the cabinet, and was tied u
thereto by a stranger, who had not before attended these !)
stances, and in such a manner that it was not possible for is
him to raise his hands more than six inches. The gas was u
turned down low, and the door of the cabinet closed, but no j
sign was given of anything that was inexplicable. After K
sitting half an hour thus, the cabinet was locked, a coal- f
scuttle placed against the doors, all hands joined, and ||
the gas put out. With these conditions, one of the paper j j
tubes was thrown out through the hole in the door, two j !
brilliant white lights were seen at this opening, and M Peter’s” j j
voice was faintly heard bidding us to sing. While singing, j j
luminous masses of light, more or less bright, emerged from | |
the cabinet and dived about fantastically to the distance of j j
three feet from it. Peter announced that he was outside the j j
cabinet, which he verified by thrumming the Oxford chimes i j
brought from within, and which rapidly moved about in front j j
of the sitters, and was heard to graze the ceiling. Two j j
wooden rings which had been placed in the cabinet were !)
thrown out and were audibly knocked on the floor near the | j
sitters. Peter explained that he could do no more, but on a j
pressing request, he showed us one more star of light of j j
about an inch and a half diameter. This we took as a signal I |
to break up, and upon lighting we found the Oxford chimes | |
on the top of the cabinet, and the paper tubes and rings j |
outside, while the medium was discovered in a state of trance, w
his fastenings having been somewhat strained by the fre-
quent convulsive movements he appeared to have undergone, j j
but not bearing any evidence of their having been untied.
The sitters were much interested and satisfied, and indeed j j
a better test could scarcely be obtained than was afforded by j j
the long sweeping movements of the Oxford chimes outside hj
the cabinet, while the medium was assuredly within it. [ j
Wm. Newton. j. j
SLATE-WRITING PHENOMENA.
Me. John Wetherbee writes to the Banner of Light, j j
Boston, U.S., Sept. 29th:— j
I was glad to have an experience with Charles E. Wat- j j
kins, who is staying fora short time at No. 46, Beach-street, j j
Boston. I will not make a long story ; Mr. Watkins does j
not need it. His spirit-writing in Greek with the Greek j j
professor at Lake Pleasant Camp-meeting, and the later j
one in the Swedish language with a Swede, who told me it |
was satisfactory, proves him to be a medium, and the pheno- I j
menon a spiritual one. j
I followed an impression I had, and bought two new slates j
at a store, and had holes bored in the frames, and tied the |
two slates together, and sealed the knots. The slates were |
clean, and the medium never touched or saw the inside of j
them. I had charge of them, and they were never out of |
my sight. The room was as light as a clear afternoon sun j j
shining into it could make it. The tied slates lay on the | |
table before me and before him—not under table, but on j j
the table. It took some little time, for the new slates were j j
not in so good mesmerically charged condition as the slates j j
in his common use are; but I felt as though I would like to
have the writing on the new slates, so I was patient, and j j
was well paid for my patience, for after a while I heard the j
.atom of pencil that I had put in the slates before tying !
them together beginning to write, after which I cut the j
strings, and found one of the slates filled with a communi- j <
cation signed by the name of a well-beloved friend and j j
relative who died some seven years ago. ’ j j
Now, my good reader, I know—as well as I know that the j
sun has shone to-day—that, as I said, the slates were j j
new and clean; secondly^ that no one in the room or out of ij j
the room (the only occupants being the medium and myself) j !
wrote the communication on the slate ; and, thirdly, that it |M
must have been done by an invisible, intelligent being or ill
beings, and could not have been done in any other con¬
ceivable way. I make this statement as strongly as I know
how, and my oath shall be attached if needed : not that the
medium is a Messiah, or even a worthy member of a
Christian church, but neither he nor any other living man
wrote a word of that communication on that slate; and I
am as satisfied that it was the act of spirits—persons out of
the human form—as I am that I have a wife and four
children. I would be willing to be hanged, if I deserve
hanging, on as square and unmistakable evidence as I
possess of what I have above stated.
I had many communications besides the one described
with the tied slates. I will describe one which was on his
own slates, but just as good a test, for my eyes are open
and my head is level. I took his two slates, and washed them
clean, and laid one on the other, like a double slate, and held
them out at arm’s length, and three feet or more from the
medium, and he never once touched them : the bit of pencil
began to write; I had put it between the upper and under
slates; then I opened them, and on each slate was an intel¬
ligent communication—one from a relative and one from a
friend. Both, it will be seen, were written at the same time,
both by different spirits and on different subjects, and the
handwriting of each was very different also. It would make
this article too long to note the several other messages—
perhaps a dozen in all—that were given me in this way, so
I will merely add that this double communication, as well
as the others, was not written by any human being in the
form, and I should stultify myself if, with all my experience
in the manifestations, I did not say that I honestly believe—
in fact, honestly know—that it was done as claimed by the
spirits of the departed.
THE CARY FAMILY AND “THE DOUBLE.”
The following instance of a double double being seen by
the assembled family is narrated in the lives of Alice and
Phoebe Cary by Mary Clemmer :—
The new house was just finished, but we had not moved
into it. There had been a violent shower; father had come
home from the field, and everybody had come in out of the
rain. I think it was about four in the afternoon when the
storm ceased, and the sun shone out. The new house stood
on the edge of a ravine, and the sun was shining full upon
it, when some one in the family called out, and asked how
Rhoda and Lucy came to be over in the new house, and the
door open. Upon this, all the rest of the family rushed to the
front door, and there, across the ravine, in the open door of
the new house, stood Rhoda, with Lucy in her arms. Some
one said, “ She must have come from the sugar camp, and
has taken shelter there with Lucy from the rain.” Upon
this another called out, a Rhoda !” but she did not answer.
While we were gazing, and talking, and calling, Rhoda her¬
self came down stairs, where she had left Lucy asleep, and
stood with us, while we all saw, in the full blaze of the sun,
the woman with the child in her arms slowly sink, sink,
sink, into the ground, until she disappeared from sight.
Then a great silence fell upon us all. In our hearts we all
believed it to be a warning of sorrow—of what we knew not.
When Rhoda and Lucy both died, then we knew. Rhoda
died the next autumn, Lucy a month later. Father went
directly over to the house, and out into the road, but no
human being, and not even a track could be seen. Lucy
has been seen many times since by different members of the
family, in the same house, always in a red frock, like one
she was very fond of wearing—the last time by my brother
Warren’s little boy, who came running in, saying that he
had seen a a little girl up-stairs in a red dress.” He is
dead now, and such a bright boy. Since the apparition in
the door, never for one year has our family been free from
the shadow of death. Ever since, some one of us has been
dying.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
X. X.—Those ■who have had much perplexing experience in their own homes,
know that there is one genuine' element of doubt in the matter, and this
fact would greatly emphasize your already extremely strong expressions.
Add your name and address to your letter, and we will print it.
J. F. H.—There is no proof of spirit identity, and withholding your name and
address from the public, withdraws it from the category of authenticated
psychological phenomena.
Oct. 19, 1877,
THE SPIBITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Bepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Cd.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. Is. Gd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM,.by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums/also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 15s. ;
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit! and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supematural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit. l2mo.|
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
Is. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals [were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it wUl be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. (id. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits tbrongb
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s'. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. ip.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6<L
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON D.AVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . , 15 0
The Physician. Vol. L Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. ,, II. „ . . • .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. ' „ V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . , .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . , .76
Philosophy of Special Providence .. . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . , .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . , .50
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . ,30
Morning Lectures , , . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s
Oriental Religions (Johnson) .... 24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Tub Spiritualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... S
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China Ito India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Tnn. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D   .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges,by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer,M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... . . . ■ . 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Hontgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
OPINIONS OE THE PRESS.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’ ’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be •
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un •
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id, post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM m THE BIBLE IDEH-
kJ TICAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KMNE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267,High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Sir. JOHN ROUSE, 80, GewgO-street,
Sloane-sfiuare, S.W.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 19, 1877,
The great question of the daf.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to he left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PRINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours,
INQUESTS —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema-
ure death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature’s own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of ENO'S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
muts be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under aU circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water. &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L A.C., London, writes:—
“I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me."
A Gentleman writes:—“Ifeel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.’’—
T. A. Somerby. Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877,
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
« M. BSRAL.’’
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, PRICE 28. 9d. AND 4s. 6d.
Bole Ayent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE BEBAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Greoory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric, Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain,
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—^Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Spontar
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—^Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions m
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:- Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly (Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—^Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—^Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.. Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to he Studenri-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Oases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
info Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo. richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man —6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10, The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. ‘'Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13: The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother-In-Law.—16 Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaics.
21 The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant's Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Obtainable at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipslc: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
HOW TO FOKM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No," and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ’’ Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “ Who is the medium ? ’’ When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
A LADY ARTIST, Spiritualist, and pupil of
Signor Belueci, Florence, and other schools, will, from
the 15th October, receive sitters for portraits in her studio,
19, Holland-street, Kensington. Moderate prices to mediums
and Spiritualists.
WL. CANEY, photographer. Studio
• opposite the Unity Church, 151, Upper-street,
Islington, London, N.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address O.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.O.
Just published, price 4d.
CLAIRVOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Oampden-
hill, Kensington.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
Sc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.8. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London,
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs,
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince's Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d. -
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, Sea., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high
class Instrumental Music.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
