Kegistehed as a Newsfapeb.
S>fS) JOlff{^Sl( 0^ f>^YdS0I<0^ICiSl<
'HjitftwQwgw 0WiCf^ Mt| SpntuHl^m m ffixmt iritam»
No. 378. (VoL. XV.—No. 21.) LONDON : FRIDAY, NOYFMBER 21, 1879. Published Weekly ; Price Twopence.
= JAMES 1ALTBT,
AEMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Eer Majestys Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qnality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Eive Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS.
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all BookseRers,
An interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
IESIERISI, WITH HINTS EOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-booh by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here thrown together
the results of his own experiences, at the request of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author has treated the subject
exactly in the way in which it is desirable that matters on which the public require information should be treated; and he tells concisely, and
yet fully, many of the secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar
to the progress of what he terms £ a just appreciation of the powers and the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and he
holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also mesmerise far too
many persons. As to the beneficial results of mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a cure for epilepsy, headache,
toothache, or other ailment; and his final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but persistently employ it for the benefit of the
sick and suffering.’ Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume, he may at any rate be credited with having written
an interesting work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
the Spiritualist Newspaper Branch. Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H . P*. B LAV AT SKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, G IB, G A U M BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, j£1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Tost Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of ‘ The Theosophist,’ ” at the above address.
Now Ready.
The THIRD EDITION of tot. I. of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
MECHANISM OE MAN.
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body-Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism in [Action)’’
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
XI
THE SPIRITUAL!ST
Nov. 21, 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos. Street, Cavendish Square, London, TV.
Pkesident—Me. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE .MEDIUMS’ BOOK . (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).’
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and setting
forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BY
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Crown 8vb, pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . . His eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home.daily from 12 till 5. .On .Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 6 clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Sunday),
■Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
street, every Sunday night.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
164, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes,all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MR. A. H. FURMAN
(Medium of Count de Bullet)
Will hold his
HOME CIRCLE
Every Tuesday and Friday Evening at Half-past Eigh
o’clock, at his Rooms
26, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, LONDON
Mr. Firman will be at home every day, except Sun¬
day, from 12 till 5, to make arrangements for Private
Sittings.
IVTOTICE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
jLM NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily;
and eight to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
MISS K. S. COOK’S private and free
dark and slate-writing seances are held every
Tuesday evening at half-past seven, at 33, Museum-
street, Holborn, under permission of Mr. 0. Blackburn.
Admissions obtainable only by invitation from Miss
Cook, 53, Eleanor-road, Hackney, London.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o'clock. 173
Rue St. Honor6, Paris.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author .attempts ;to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. Cd.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
2'he Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business—Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m.
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
, 4, Grenville-street,, Bruns wick-square.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE,
of the Fox Sisters, of New York Oity, U.S.,
gives seances at her rooms every Tuesday, Thursday,
and Friday, from 3 to 6 p.m. Private evening seances
from 8 to 10, either at house of party or at Mrs.
Kane’s rooms, must he made by letters sent to Mrs.
Kane, at 4, Grenville-street, Brunswiek-square. No
private seances wtll be given on the above days adver¬
tised for seances from 3 to 6 p.m.
riH|ARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 82, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
$ xif jfl&piii ixf to Si)toc$ anxi Itbics af Spi^ituaUsim
No. 378,—VoiLUJVtE FIFTEEN) NujVIBER TWENTY-OJHE,
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21st, 1879.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
Os. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union,
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HAEEISON.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist:—■■
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia. Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Yon Yay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Eussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
C. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Oloott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. O. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Bev. O. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencben, Esq., M.B.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
M.A.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
0. F. Varley, Esq., O.E., F.B.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.B.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Boyal, Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne ; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont. Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
rpHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist" was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
CHARACTEEISTICS OF THE HINDUS.
Several circumstances have combined to draw
the attention of European Spiritualists to India and
its inhabitants. The white resident rulers of that
country have many of them begun the investigation
of Spiritualism in an intelligent manner, and in some
instances have freely expressed their opinions about
it in the best journal in Hindostan. Some of the
natives of India have the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism presented through their medial powers,
to an extent altogether unknown in this country;
details on this head will be found in the works of
Jacolliot. A greater number still of the natives, by
prayer and fasting, have developed some of the
higher mental phenomena of Spiritualism, and dis¬
covered much about the higher psychical states and
their order of succession. Then, again, the majority
of the natives are extremely susceptible to influence
of mesmerism ; much more so than Europeans.
The mental, moral, and religious characteristics of
the native races in which psychic sensitiveness has
been so highly developed form an interesting study,
but not every one has formed so high an opinion of
them as Madame Blavatsky, and others who have
been writing of late about the Hindus. By some
they are painted as a good and docile people, ground
down sometimes to the famine level, because of the
financial imposts of their taskmasters. By others
they are described as possessing intelligence un¬
governed by a sense of honour, and as inveterately
untruthful, with no sense of shame when their want
of veracity in any particular instance is detected.
One of the residents in the Bombay presidency
informed us that he found it necessary to preserve for
years all the receipts given him by the natives, because
if any of them discovers a receipt to have been lost,
he would at once declare that the money had not
been paid, and would sue for the amount. He
further added that they take to law as naturally as
ducks take to water.
A letter received by the last mail from a corre¬
spondent in India states :—
“ I have never seen anything of spiritual pheno¬
mena in this country, though I have lived here
altogether ten years,
“ A Brahmin told me that the priests relate
wonderful tales about the spirits of their gods appear¬
ing to them, but that they never showed the spirits
to outsiders, and he himself did not believe that their
tales were true.
“Another native gave me an instance in his
own experience which was clearly a case of mes¬
merism. He said that a native Christian who was
noted for doing wonderful things asked him where
he would like, to, go, and he replied cTo Peshawur.’
In an instant he found himself in the market place
242
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Hoy. 21, 1879.
of Peshawur, amongst crowds of people He went j<
to a fruit-seller and bought a bunch of plantains. ||
In another instant he found himself again in the h
room with the native Christian, and the money which j)
he had paid for the fruit was lying on the floor in f
front of him.
f There may be possibly spiritual manifestations j
taking place continually in the temples and houses of {-J
natives, but if so English people do not hear of them, j <
The fact is there is a great gulf between us and the
natives, which makes it well-nigh impossible for any j<
of us to be on closely intimate terms with them, j)
This gulf is caused, I believe, by a natural repulsion |<
between their spirits and our own, and exists where \\
there is not the slightest feeling of ill-nature on either j <
side.
“ English magazines and papers sometimes lament K
the want of sympathy between ourselves and the |)
natives. I believe that this want is a benefit to us, K
if not to them, for in the few instances which I have |)
known and heard of where Englishmen have had so
much sympathy with natives as to live on intimate j)
terms with them, they have generally lost their most K
valuable characteristics as Englishmen, such as truth- 0
fulness and a delicate sense of honour. I have seen |\
it stated that we treat the natives as inferiors because j)
they are a conquered race. In reality w7e do so, n
because, as a fact, they are, on the whole, greatly j)
inferior to us, and it is impossible to help feeling it. n
Canada has been conquered as recently as India; yet j)
Englishmen do not treat the French Canadians as n
inferiors, because, as a fact, they are not inferiors.” j)
WHO LOOKS AITEK, THE SHEEEEEKS ? !)
Sm,—Having read the complaint of “Excelsior” in The \\
Spiritualist of 7th instant, I must say that I have myself often j)
remarked upon the want of spirit in the (Spiritualists of the i)
present day. Spiritualists boast of being in possession of so j (
much truth; they also listen to beautiful trance addresses ! S
breathing love to all, and teaching the progressive upraising of i)
humanity ; so one would think that they, both men and women, j)
after hearing the loving utterances from the lips of Mrs. Tappan, §r
and the philosophic and often argumentative remarks from K
Messrs. Morse, Eletcher, Wallis, and others, would be so
imbued with love for each other, that each and every one would j)
be ready to suffer martyrdom for the faith and knowledge within i)
him. But such, I am sorry to state, is not the case. 1 find | (
from sad experience that Spiritualists are the most disunited and i \
inharmonious body of people in the world. See, for instance, i)
the unworthy and unmanly opposition that you, sir, have had to i)
contend with in your manly endeavour to be open, truthful, and | (
honest. I oftentimes was prevented from lending The Spirit- I (
ualist to friends to read in consequence of the accounts it was !)
forced to contain of unseemly squabbles in the British National |)
Association of Spiritualists. Spiritualism is of no use if it does j <
not tend to cement humanity. j(
Spiritualists, if they want success, must act together like other j)
bodies; they must form a society or societies for mutual help ])
and improvement; then, and not till then, will you find men and |)
women ready to speak out their opinions openly. It does not j (
pay people to be martyrs nowadays; we are all suffering K
martyrdom enough already in trying to live in this world without j)
suffering martyrdom for the next. A man who has a wife and i)
family to support does not think himself justified in risking the | \
loss of his position, and comfortable home perhaps, through \(
preaching an unpopular faith. I had a comfortable nome, but as j)
soon as I appeared on a public platform as an advocate of Spirit- i)
ualism, and in defence of it, my doom was pronounced. I was | \
dismissed my situation; no cause was assigned for it, which
meant a loss to me of five years’ character; stripped of my
home—and through my loss of five years’ character—I could not
obtain any permanent employment; and now (fourteen months
out of permanent employment) in the winter months, and in this
year of depressed trade, I am trying to live first by travelling in
one thing, then in another, and find everything almost a failure.
True, I have the same chance as others. Trade might revive,
and then it is to be hoped all will succeed. But what I wish to
point out is this : Suppose that I were a member of any of the
orthodox sects—a Wesleyan, Methodist, Baptist, Church of
England member—and were as well known, and took the same
little part among them that I did in the Spiritual camp, and
similar misfortunes happened to me, I opine that then much
sympathy would have been extended towards me ; kind inquiries
would have been made concerning my case. A few friends would
have called to see me, and doubtless a “ billet ” would have been
found for me somewhere. A benefit might have been got up,
or a concert given. That is the way the “ orthodox ” help each
other in their little difficulties. But not so with Spiritualists. Not
a single one came to see me, or, as far as I know, has made
the least inquiry about me. Since I lost my place not a letter
of inquiry has been written to me by any one as to how myself,
wife, and family have been getting on, or whether we are
dead or alive, except in answer to letters that I have written
myself.
Of course, I must take this opportunity of thanking you, sir,
for your kindness in advertising me three times for a situation in
your paper, gratis, when I had written to you announcing my
misfortune. Also my kind thanks to Mr. C. C. Massey, barnster-
at-law, for .£3 sent to me to cover law expenses; and to Sir
Charles Isham, Miss Kislingbury, Miss Chandos Leigh Hunt,
and Mr. Barber, who all sent me pecuniary assistance when I was
at length forced to make my case known to them; also Mr.
Eletcher. But what I wish to point out is, there was nothing
spontaneous about anything. It would appear to me that it is
not a safe thing to champion Spiritualism at present; at all
events, not till Spiritualists combine to form societies for mutual
help and protection. ... J. Cain.
Tower Hamlets Radical Club and Institute, Mile-end-road,
Mils-end, E., November 17, 1879.
[We have excised the closing sentence of this letter, which made
a statement about private law affairs. Unquestionably Mr. Cain,
in a rational and sensible way, helped Spiritualism in East London
for years, perhaps more effectively than anybody but Mr. Cogman
while he had the power, and he states that nobody afterwards
searched after him in his days of adversity. Is there such an up¬
hill battle to fight with the outside world at present, that no energy
is left to attend to sufferers in the ranks ; or are Spiritualists more
intellectual than affectionate ? Or do some in our ranks mistake
table-jumping for religion ?—Ed.]
REPRESENTATIVE BODIES.
Sir,—I send you the enclosed cutting from The Warrington
Guardian of the 15th inst.; it contains most appropriate advice
to the Council of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, also to every public association wherever situated.
“There are fundamental facts lying at the base of municipal
institutions, the causes of their creation, the very breath of their
existence, which it may be wholesome to recall. At any rate,
one may revive the memory of that one central and quintes¬
sential principle, the very life and soul of these institutions—
popular control. It was just because our old corporations, at
first entirely under the control of the free men, had been
restricted by the Tudors and enslaved by the Stuarts, that
municipal reform became needful, and it applied everywhere the
one sovereign remedy of popular control, which was the centre
and essence of municipal reform, and of the new corporations it
established.
“ The great organ for the development, education, and
guidance of this popular control is a free press. The better
forms of freedom have grown up concurrently with its growth,
and it is at once a terror to evildoers and the praise of them that
do well. It is a very unfortunate symptom when the fair and
fearless criticisms of a free but honourable public press are
borne impatiently or attempted to be suppressed. Whether
such attempts spring from the action of a professedly liberal
patriotism, or from the narrower notions of reactionaries, they
alike aim at the throat of freedom, and would strangle all healthy
independence. Any public authority, be it calledjay what name
243
Nov. 21, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST.
it may, •which claims the origination of all its own measures and
forms of procedure, is to that extent the enemy of public liberty
and a tyrant set up of a self-seeking oligarchy. Such action is
the natural precursor of the tyranny which uses rate-raised funds
to repress popular liberties—a refinement of oppression unknown
to Tudor or to Stuart. It behoves the community to look to its
liberties when these things appear, convinced that without the
wholesome pressure of popular control the very institutions of
freedom may become the worst instruments of oppression.
Authority has always a tendency to become corrupt, and the
tendency grows just in proportion as the pressure of control
is withdrawn or successfully resisted,
“There is not an act belonging to a municipal corporation but
s fairly open to the suggestion and criticism of every ratepayer.
Every man who pays to the corporate funds has a right to a
respectful hearing on any subject whatsoever that affects corporate
interests, duties, or dignities. A free press educates, enlightens,
guides, and gives expression to the sentiments of free citizens;
or, it may go further than that, and when municipal opinion is
supine or indifferent, and especially when it is dormant or without
intelligence, it may, nay, it must, originate and suggest—it is
bound by its vigour to create an active and healthy public senti¬
ment, which alone can save the body politic from decline and
decay.
“What is the alternative ? Where public discussion is stifled,
and the criticisms of a free press fought against, there inferior
agencies spring up in their place. Scurrilous and anonymous
pamphlets, pothouse politicians, the rule of cliques, the domina¬
tion of schemers, the undue influence of financial and commercial
associations, the malefic spell of wizards that peep and that
mutter, everything, indeed, that will not bear the light of open
day vaults into the veiled seat of authority and seizes the hidden
reins of power.
“No, the influences that narrow and restrict, that lead to
corners and monopolies, that shut out the free air of untrammelled
thought and the light of honest criticism, assume what name they
may, deserve the sturdy opposition and the hearty denunciation
of all good citizens.” J.
Northwich.  
MB. FLETCHEB AND DE. SLADE.
Sib,—Mr. Fletcher having at length positively and distinctly
declared that he did not allude to Dr. Slade in his conversation
with the Whitehall Reviewer, I should be glad to be able to
pursue the usual course of accepting his disclaimer, and of with¬
drawing my statement at variance with it. I cannot do so,
because having regard to dates and circumstances it is simply
incredible that Mr. Fletcher had any other American medium in
his mind than Slade. To use scandalous language for publication
respecting an unnamed person, language apparently pointing to a
particular individual, and so interpreted by all the world; to
leave that impression uncorrected for weeks and weeks ; to con¬
firm it by ambiguous and evasive answers; and at length, when
driven into a corner, to deny it without showing any other
possible application of the words, is a course of conduct which
disentitles the person pursuing it to credit, even were the untruth
of his present statement less manifest and demonstrable than it
is. However, I took the matter up chiefly from regard for the
character of Dr. Slade. That of Mr. Fletcher may now be left
to the judgment of “ Spiritualists and gentlemen,” some of whom
it concerns more than it does me.
As Mr. Fletcher is indifferent to anything I say, it is perhaps
useless to inform him that he is not without redress—the above
imputation upon him of wilful and deliberate untruth being an
actionable libel, unless I can justify it in the opinion of a jury.
Chables Caeleton Massey.
2, Harcourt-buildings, Temple, Nov. 15th, 1879.
A PBIVATE SEANCE.
Seance at Mr. Fletcher’s.—We, the undersigned, who were
present at an evening seance at the house of Mr. Fletcher, 22,
Gordon-street, Gordon-square, on the evening of the 24th of
last month, think that the very peculiar and interesting nature
of the phenomena we witnessed on that occasion should not be
lost to the public, but should be placed on record for the
information of those interested in such.
They were as follows :—
The party (not a very large one), with the medium, Mr.
Haxby, having formed a circle round the table, and the lights
having been extinguished, the usual phenomena, such as playing
of musical instruments, touches from materialised hands, &c.,
having been experienced, as well as spirit voices heard, the
lights were again introduced, and just as the party were about
to rise from the table the key of a musical box was thrown from
the roof of the room with much violence, and struck the table,
narrowly escaping striking some of the party. This, we were
afterwards informed, was the act of the spirit “Toby,” who is
said to be a jack-of-all-trades, and given to practical jokes.
The medium then entered the cabinet, and had been in it but a
very short time when the spirit Marie opened the curtain and
held forward her medium, she herself standing behind him, and
perfectly separate from him. After which Marie appeared by
herself, and on retiring was followed by a spirit who told us she
was Marguerite, and who produced a baby in arms, which she
uncovered and showed to several of the party, but more par¬
ticularly to Mrs. Fletcher; it was of a dark complexion, with
two little black shining eyes, as Mrs. Fletcher said, “ like little
shining beads” The spirit did not tell us whose child this was,
or why she brought it.
Abdullah and John King appeared, and the latter came and
sat down on a chair which he placed for himself in the middle of
the circle, and conversed freely. “Toby” also made several
rushes out from the curtain, and seized hold of Mr. Fletcher and
a gentleman sitting near him.
The last appearance was that of a dog ; it ran about the room
showing a small spirit light, and was recognised by a gentleman
present as a dog which had belonged to him, and which had died
upwards of three years before.
Lastly, just above Mrs. Fletcher’s head, a spirit light formed,
and after a time assumed the form of a white cross.
It was unanimously agreed by those present that this seance
was one of the most successful and interesting they had ever
witnessed.
J. W. H. Maclean, M. General;
Philip Heney Nind;
Elizabeth Feances Nind;
J. D.;
Mme. S. S. L.;
S. L. L.;
J. W. Fletchee ;
Mbs. Fletchee.
DEATH WARNING IN A DREAM.
The following narrative, communicated by Mr.
David Laing, of Edinburgh, appears in Dr. Hibbert’s
Philosophy of Apparitions:—
“ Robert Lindsay, grandchild or great grandchild
to Sir David Lindsay, of the Mouth, Lyon-King-at-
Arms, &c., being intimate, even disciple with A. P.,
they bargained, anno 1675, that whoever died first
should give account of his condition, if possible. It
happened that he died about the end of 1675, while
A.. P. was at Paris; and the very night of his death
A. P. dreamed that he was at Edinburgh, where
Lindsay attacked him thus:—‘ Archie,’ said he,
‘perhaps ye heard I’m dead? ‘No, Robin.’ ‘Ay,
but they bury my body in the Greyfriars. I am
alive, though, in a place whereof the pleasures
cannot be expressed in Scotch, Greek, or Latin. I
have come with a well-sailing small ship to Leith
Road, to carry you thither.’ ‘ Robin, I’ll go with
you, but wait till I go to Fife and East Lothian, and
take leave of my parents.’ ‘Archie, I have but the
allowance of one tide. Farewell, I’ll come for you
at another time.’ Since which time A. P. never
slept a night without dreaming that Lindsay told
him he was alive. And having a dangerous sickness
anno 1694, he was told by Robin that he was
delayed for a time, and that it was properly his task
to carry him off, but was discharged to tell when.”
Me. Haeey Bastian, the American medium, intends to visit
England again in a short time.
244
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 21, 1879.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE PROVINCES.
The Potteries.—In past times, mainly owing to |||
the exertions of Mr. Simkiss, public Spiritualistic j|j
meetings were occasionally held in Wolverhampton, ||i
hut of late years little has been done. There are a
few Spiritualists in Wednesbury by whom private j\|
circles are held, and converts are being made. At llj
Hednesford Mr. Barr does his best to keep pace with Ki
the progress of the movement, but is fighting the battle |) 1
single-handed. There are a few Spiritualists at other m
places in the Potteries, but they have taken no public jlj
action. 1 ' ‘ r® " $ If
Holloway (Derbyshire).—During the last eighteen m
months strenuous efforts have been made to awaken j>j
interest in Spiritualism in this place. Mr. Johnson Kj
visited the town and held an open-air meeting in the |)i
summer of 1878, and the Lancashire Committee sent Kj
speakers on more than one occasion, but local j)j
authorities and sectarian prejudices conquered. Mr. j(j
Nightingale,' an earnest worker, was compelled to j
leave the neighbourhood ; he emigrated, as many Kj
others have done from the same causes, to a freer j>|
country. '" i*-, ^ 1 5 j)j
Matlock.—A debate took place between Mr. i(j
Morse and Mr. Watson at Matlock before an j)j
audience numbering several hundreds of individuals ; |J
Mr. Watson Opposed Spiritualism on orthodox grounds, ||j
but was well answered. " lb
New Mills.—Three years ago Spiritualism was j\;
almost entirely unknown here, but an excellent j)j
trance medium has been developed, viz., Mr. J. \l\
Wright. Well-sustained correspondence was kept up ;)!
in the local papers for more than twelve months, fol-
lowed by a debate, in which Mr. Watson essayed to j;i
demonstrate the alleged delusions under which j(j
Spiritualists were labouring, but he did not succeed. j)j
Regular Sunday services are held, and private Seances ju
are carried on at the homes of some of the more j)j
wealthy inhabitants, where unmistakable phenomena j(j
occur. ‘ t i-' v ; ,:: |j|
Hayfield.—Mr. J. Lithgow is the backbone of m
the movement here, and has done much to help the m
Spiritualists at New JVfills and Whaley Bridge, at which j / i
latter place meetings have been held, attended by from Icj
four to six hundred persons, and addressed by Mrs. nj
Batie and Mr. Wright with good effect. Mr. Lithgow j(j
was one of the most constant contributors to the local ’i)j
newspaper, and his logical letters at last beat all his m
opponents from the field. He has, in connection with ill
hiS own children, Some remarkable phases of medium- \\\
ship, and through them has become conversant with jlj
almost every phase of spirit manifestation.'
Macclesfield.—Spiritualism has made great pro- ju
gress'in‘this town of late.' Mr. Hammond recently jlj-
built a new hall at his own expense, which he lets at ju
a very mo4erate rent to the local society. Regular j)j
Sunday'services are held, and the hall is generally j<i
nearly full. . Oh special occasions it is found to be too j)j
small. Private circles are held, and local mediums j?j
in course of development do much to keep the interest
alive. Bad trade has militated much against the j)j
success of public services, but in spite of this Mr. jlj
Walker, of Melbourne, visited the town recently, and j|
had overflowing audiences. Mr. fright is a frequent nj
visitor, and other mediums have ministered. The 1 1
Lancashire District Committee at one time sent
speakers, but owing to an unfortunate misunderstand¬
ing the society ceased to be affiliated with that body.
Ashton-UNDER-Lyne.—This town has been under
a cloud as regards Spiritualism. Several efforts have
been made to foster the movement and establish
regular Sunday services, but the right men have not
yet been found. There are a few local mediums. A
more recent attempt to begin public work bids fair
to ultimate in something permanent and useful,
with judicious and careful direction.
Sheffield. — Sheffield has been, until lately,
almost given over to the powers of darkness, which
enveloped it like its own pall of smoke. But within
the past year fresh efforts have been made, and many
converts secured. The Midland Committee has sent
Mr. E. W. Walfis to Sheffield several times, and his
services were secured by the friends for additional
visits. On each occasion good, respectable, and
attentive audiences assembled, and the trance
addresses gave general satisfaction. A society 1 to
investigate Spiritualism has recently been formed,
with good prospects. Excelsior.
THE SPIRITUALISM OF ALICE AND PHCEBE
CAREY.
APPARITIONS OF LIVING MORTALS.
Alice and Phoebe Carey were daughters of a
farmer in Southern Ohio; they grew up refined,
gentle, and intuitive, among the cares and toils of
poverty. As flowers turn toward the sun, so turned
their souls toward a finer life, and both loved litera¬
ture with an absorbing affection. The delicacy and
sensibility which they had inherited from superior
parentage deepened, in their cases, into seasons of
religious exaltation and genuine spiritual inspiration.
They early “lisped in numbers, for the numbers
came ” with the same ease as the wild birds sing.
Privation, toil, and the loss of many brothers and
listers had its effect upon the strains of the young
sisters, but a natural religion of the hopeful creed,
which trusts in the final triumph of good, uplifted
their souls into serene and heavenlv regions.
Alice, particularly, became at rare intervals a seer.
One of their experiences we will give in her own
language.
“ The new house was finished, but we had not
moved into it. There had been a violent shower ;
father had come home from the field, but about four
o’clock the storm ceased and the sun shone out. The
new house stood upon the edge of the ravine ; the
sun shone full upon it, when some one in the family
called out to know how Rhoda and Lucy came to be
over in the new house, and the door open. Upon
this all the rest of the family rushed to the front
door, and there, across the ravinie, in the new open
door, stood Rhoda with Lucy in her arms. Some one
said, ‘ She must have come from the sugar camp, and
taken shelter there, with Lucy, from the rain.’ Upon
this another called out ‘Rhoda,’ but she did not
answer. While yve were gazing, and talking,1 and
calling, Rhoda flerself came downstairs,' where she
had left Lucy fast asleep, and stood with us, while we
all saw, in the full blaze of the sun, the woman, with
245
Nov. 21, 1879. THE SPIRI
the child in her arms, slowly sink, sink, sink into the i)
ground, until she disappeared from sight. Then a j(
great silence fell upon us all. In our hearts we all \)\
felt it to be a warning of sorrow—of what, we knew K
not. When Rhoda and Lucy both died, then we j)j
knew. They both went that autumn ; Lucy a month j
later than Rhoda. On that marked day father went |/
directly over to the house, and out into the road, but Kj
no human being, not even a track, could be seen, m
Lucy has since been seen many times by different m
members of the family, and always in a red frock, j)
like one she was very fond of wearing.”
It is needless to say that Phoebe and Alice became !)
early believers in the blessedness and beauty of com- j(
munion with those who have gone from “this dim $
twilight into the full day of life eternal,” and always k
treated it as something not to be lightly or carelessly w
evoked. At the time which we mention they were }
writing at odd leisure moments, and at night, and ]|
many of their early productions winged their way, h
anonymously, from paper to paper through the West. I)
At last, in the daring of simplicity, Alice came to K
seek her fortune in New York, and the younger !)
sister soon followed. Together they set up their js
household gods, and worked early and late to secure j)
a modest independence. They had untiring industry K
and energy; they were thrifty, economical, and self- k
helping ; and in a few years were 'established in a K
delightful little house, on the east side of the town, h
by means of their savings. One afternoon and n
evening of the week their salon was open to their k
friends, who included many a poor struggling artist j)
or writer. Their fireside was sought by the best K
people of the city, and the graceful, gentle, kindly, |)
and spiritual-minded twain, inseparable and devoted, u
grew into middle life, beloved and revered by a host j>
of friends. Year after year they worked on, helping k
the helpless, earning their bread by hard work, j)
through much true poetry and some padding, until U
Alice became the victim of a painful and lingering h
disease. But the waters of death were not wide k
enough to divide two who loved each other so fondly.
Day by day as Phoebe faded she felt her sister-love k
drawing her so tenderly from the shore of the I)
immortals that she, too, gladly turned away from the k
world which had lost its chiefest charm, and joined j)
her dear ones in that higher life which knows no k
shadow on its bliss. /
Their names are household words in many States, k
If they sang not in the loftiest strains their verses >
are yet crooned by many a fireside, and enshrined in j(
loving memories. We all surely remember those |>
“ Pictures of Memory,” which close thus :—»
“ Sweetly bis pale arms folded, j(
My neck in a meek embrace,
As the light of immortal beauty
Silently covered his face;
And when the arrows of sunset j (
Lodged in the tree tops bright,
He fell, in his saint-like beauty,
Asleep, by the gates of light.
Therefore, of all the pictures
Which hang on Memory’s Wall,
The one of the dim old forest
• Seemeth the best of all.’’ k
—Religio-Philosophical Journal. k
TUALIST.
THE LAST OF THE BOONS.
A little way above the town of Dartmouth is
Mount Boon, the site of the proposed Naval College.
The “ last ” of the Boons held it years ago. He was
a widower with an only child, a girl of whom he was
passionately fond. Anxious to promote her prospects
in life, he wished to see her united to a suitable
partner. At length her affections were engaged by
a gentleman who af first appeared as acceptable to
the father as to the daughter. They were betrothed,
but as time passed on the father’s mind underwent
a change, and instead of regarding the young man
with favour, he manifested feelings of positive aver¬
sion. Acting on his dislike, he extorted a promise
from his daughter that she would never wed her
betrothed, under the penalty of being disinherited.
In a few short years the Squire died, and was
buried with his ancestors. The heiress, true to her
plighted troth, still loved her young gallant, whom
she had been reluctantly compelled to discard in
obedience to what she considered a sense of duty to
her parent. * But that obligation she believed to have
been cancelled by death, and she was now free to act
for herself. Six months after her father’s death, she
was wedded to the object of her choice, and soon
after the honeymoon the happy pair returned to the
ancestral home of Mount Boon.
But here their happiness was strangely interrupted.
Night after night the most unearthly noises were
heard in the house ; heavy pieces of furniture were
overturned; lambent flames of light played about
where no lamps or fires were known to be in use;
and at length the Squire was himself seen by mortal
eyes roaming over the house and about the grounds.
His attention was more particularly directed to the
lady, whose health soon began to suffer from these
unhallowed visits. Physicians recommended change
of scene, and accordingly London life was freely
indulged in, to scare away the remembrances of the
dreadful visitant. Months went by, but; alas ! time
and even distance were of no avail; the Squire was a
constant attendant of his daughter even in London.
At length it was decided to try Mount Boon once
more, where her native air, and a temporary cessation
of visits from beings of the other world, again restored
her to something like her former self.
But as the dark days of winter came round, the
same ominous signs were noticed. The clattering of
invisible horses in the courtyard, the same move¬
ments displayed by the tables and chairs, only
preceded the appearance of the Squire himself.
He was not simply one of those orthodox ghosts who
visit the earth at stated intervals at the solemn hour
of midnight, and then soberly and discreetly take
their departure at the approach of dawn ; he was
for ever about the house, haunting his daughter by
day as well as by night. At length the Church
was cbnsulted in this dire extremity, and at a solemn
conclave of the clergy of the neighbourhood, it was
resolved to lay the ghost. Accordingly, on a given
day, a number of very reverend gentlemen assembled
at the house to exorcise the restless spirit. All their
efforts, however, at first were useless; again they
tried, and again they ignominiously failed. They
were on the eve of abandoning the undertaking and of
giving it up as a case beyond their powers, when, won-
Mes. Louie M. Lowe, the American medium, is now in London.
246
THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 21. 1879.
derful to relate, the ghost, as fresh as ever, suggested a
compromise. He said he had no objection to go back
to his resting-place provided he was accompanied
by his daughter. This condition was agreed to, but
with a mental reservation by the lady in question—
not to carry it out. The whole party, the parsons,
the ghost, and the lady, now proceeded to the castle
mill. Here with bell, book, and candle the ghost
was enjoined, on the holy gospels, to retire and never
more to appear on earth, until he had emptied the
stream with a cockle-shell, having the orthodox hole
in the bottom.
The daughter earnestly talked with her father’s
ghost, and expressed a hope that he was happy.
“ You will see,” said he, and instantly disappeared in
a flame of fire. The heiress of Mount Boon died in
less than three months, and there are old folks in
Dartmouth still who insist that the Squire continues
to haunt the grounds, and although not always seen,
the “ link-horse ” on which he rides is frequently heard.
—J. T. W., in Devonshire Transactions, 1879.
A PRIVATE SEANCE.
Last Wednesday night, at a private stance held
by the invitation of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, at 21,
Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, the medium
was Mrs. Hollis Billing, of whose powers much is
recorded in a remarkable book written some years
ago by Dr. Wolfle, of Cincinnati.
The chief feature of the seances of Mrs. Billing is,
that in connection with a moderate amount of the
physical phenomena of mediumship, communications
are given bearing relation to the problem of spirit
identity. Proper names of deceased relatives are
usually given accurately to nearly every sitter in the
circle, and sometimes true details relating to the life
of the departed one are stated by voice. The spirits
who regularly control have strong voices, but those
who speak for the first time, and who give names
and state private matters, whisper so low that acute
power of hearing is necessary to receive their
utterances. The phase of power seems to be half¬
way between good physical and trance test medium-
ship.
Little of a private nature was given last Wednes¬
day. As regards names, a spirit several times told
Mr. Serjeant Cox that his (the speaker’s) name was
“ Phil. Crookes,” and that he wished his brother to
be told of his coming. Nobody present was able to
say whether Mr. Crookes ever had a brother of the
name of Philip. A child’s voice came to Mrs. Duncan,
calling her “ Mamma,” and gave her a few details,
which were accurate. The accuracy of a similar
communication to Mrs. Wiseman was acknowledged.
A relative of Mr. C. C. Massey professed to commu¬
nicate, and Mr. Massey narrated how on a previous
occasion the voice had exhibited knowledge of a pri¬
vate family matter. Mr. Annesley Mayne was
unable to recognise a name given to him, and a
spirit speaking with a Scotch dialect told Mrs.
Gregory that he was one of her ancestors, Macdonald,
Lord of the Isles. Mr. Harrison was told that his
little sister Edith was present, and had several times
tried to communicate with him. In short, in an
assemblage somewhat new to Mrs. Billing, the spirit
(| voices exhibited a moderate amount of acquaintance
) | with the names and degree of relationship of some of
(| their departed friends.
“ CRAMPE RINGS, AND CREEPINGE TO THE
| CROSSE.”
On Good Friday, formerly, the kings of England
)| hallowed rings, to protect the wearers from the
| falling sickness ; a ring which has been long pre-
)| served in Westminster Abbey being supposed to
11 have great efficacy against the cramp and falling
sickness, when touched by those who were afflicted
|| with either of these disorders. This ring is reported
| to have been brought from Jerusalem.
The hallowing of these rings was an imposing
| ceremony, and Dr. Percy has printed, at the end
r of his notes on the Northumberland Household
| Booh,
“ The ordre of the Kinge on Good Friday, touch-
inge the cominge to service, hallowinge of the
Crampe Rings, and offering and Creepinge to
the Cross.”
“ Firste, the Kinge to come to the chappell or
(j closset, withe the Lords and Noblemen waytinge upon
jl him, without any sword borne before hime as that
(| day, and ther to tarrie in his travers until the Byshope
)! and the Deane have brought in the Crucifixe out of
(| the vestrie, and layd it upon the cushion before the
)| highe alter. And then the Usher to lay a carpet for
)j the Kinge to cree-pe to the crosse upon ; and that
done, there shall be a forme sett upon, the carpett
(j before the crucifix, and a cushion laid upon it for
)j the Kinge to kneale upon. And the Master of the
yj Jewell house ther to be ready with the crampe rings
)j in a bason of silver, and the Kinge to kneale upon
yj the cushion before the forme. And then the Clerke
)| of the Closett be redie with the booke concerninge
yj the halowinge of the crampe rings, and the Aumer
)j must kneele on the right hand of the Kinge, holdinge
(j the sayd booke. When that is done, the Kinge shall
) j rise and go to the alter, wheare a Gent. Usher shall
y j be redie with a cushion for the Kinge to kneale upon ;
j)j and then the greatest Lords that shall be ther, to
jyl take the bason with the rings, and beare them after
\(\ the King to offer. And thus done, the Queene shall
i>! come downe out of her closset or traverse into the
Kj chappell, with ladyes and gentlewomen waitinge
hi upon her, and creepe to the crosse, and then goe
1(1' agayne to her clossett or traverse. And then the
hi ladyes to creepe to the crosse likewise, and the Lords
j (| and Noblemen likewise.”
Dr. Percy adds that, in 1536, when the convocation
Hj under Henry VIII. abolished some of the old super-
ijj stitious practices, this of creeping to the cross on
< Good Friday, &c., was ordered to be retained as a
hi laudable and edifying custom. (See Herbert’s Life
i(| of Henry VIIIi) It appears, in the Northumber-
h land Household Booh, to have been observed in the
jji Earl’s family, the value of the offerings then made
m by himself, his lady, and his sons being there
j( severally ascertained.
“Crampe Rings” are also mentioned by Lord
j(| Berners, and in our times jet rings are believed by
jj weak persons to be singularly efficacious. The
j < “ Galvanic Ring ” was an imposition of the same class,
I)! but savouring of the scientific pretension of the
''' present age.—Diprose's “ Superstitious Omens."
Nov. 21, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
247
THE PROGRESS OF PSYCHOLOGY.
( Concluded.)
BY EDWARD W. COX, SERJEANT-AT-LAW, PRESIDENT OF THE
PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
The event of the past year that most interests
psychology is the admirable address of the President
of the British Association at the Sheffield Congress.
Professor Allman devoted himself to a clear and
precise narrative of recent progress in physiological
research in the direction of the genesis of organic
life. He asserted the important truth that all
life—be it animal or vegetable—traced back to its
first perceptible beginnings, is, if not identical, so
intimately allied, that no distinction is apparent
between one form of life and another. We examine
the materials of which the shapes of all animated
being are constructed, and it reduces itself to a jelly
called protoplasm. Of this protoplasm the man, the
lion, the eagle, the whale, the oak are builded, as
also are the gnat and the mildew.
PSYCHOLOGY AT THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION.
This protoplasm is the ultimate particle and the
first visible germ of everything that has life. Hear
what the President says :—
From the facts which have been now brought to your notice
there is but one legitimate conclusion—that life is a property of
protoplasm. In this assertion there is nothing that need startle
us. The essential phenomena of living beings are not so widely
separated from the phenomena of lifeless matter as to render it
impossible to recognise any analogy between them; for even
irritability, the one grand character of all living beings, is not
more difficult to be conceived of as a property of matter than the
physical phenomena of radial energy.
When, however, we say that lite is a property of protoplasm,
we assert as much as we are justified in doing. Here we stand
upon the boundary between life in its proper conception, as a
group of phenomena having irritability as their common bond,
and that other and higher group of phenomena which we
designate as consciousness or thought, and which, however
intimately connected with those of life, are yet essentially distinct
from them.
When a thought passes through the mind it is associated, as
we have now abundant reason for believing, with some change in
the protoplasm of the cerebral cells. Are we, therefore, justified
in regarding thought as a property of the protoplasm of these
cells in the sense in which we regard muscular contraction
as a property of the protoplasm of muscle ? or is it really a
property residing in something far different, but which may
yet need for its manifestation the activity of cerebral
protoplasm ?
If we could see any analogy between thought and any one of
the admitted phenomena of matter, we should be justified in
accepting the nrst of these conclusions as the simplest, and as
affording a hypothesis most in accordance with the compre¬
hensiveness of natural laws; but between thought and the
physical phenomena of matter there is not only no analogy, but
there is no conceivable analogy; and the obvious and continuous
path which we have hitherto followed up in our reasonings from
the phenomena of lifeless matter through those of living matter
here comes suddenly to an end. The chasm between uncon¬
scious life and thought is deep and impassable, and no transitional
phenomena can be found by which as by a bridge we may span it
over; for even from irritaoility, to which, on a superficial view,
consciousness may seem related, it is as absolutely distinct as it is
from any of the ordinary phenomena of matter.
It has been argued that because physiological activity must be
a property of every living cell, psychical activity must be equally
so; and the language of the metaphysician has been carried into
biology, and the “ cell soul ” spoken of as a conception insepa¬
rable from that of life.
That psychical phenomena, however, characterised as they essen¬
tially are by consciousness, are not necessarily co-extensive with
those of life, there cannot be a doubt. How far back in the
scale of life consciousness may exist we have as yet no means
|j| of determining, nor is it necessary for our argument that we
i (i should.
I believe that Professor Huxley intended to apply his argument
|) | only to the phenomena of life in the stricter sense of the word.
l)i As such it is conclusive. But when it is pushed further, and
i (| extended to the phenomena of consciousness, it loses all its force.
'i (I The analogy, perfectly valid in the former case, here fails. The
j j | properties of the chemical compound are like those of its com-
j)i ponents, still physical properties. They come within the wide
| (j category of the universally accepted properties of matter, while
| (| those of consciousness belong to a category absolutely distinct—
i \ | one which presents not a trace of a connection with any of those
J) i which physicists have agreed in assigning to matter as its proper
!) i characteristics. The argument thus breaks down, for its force
| (| depends on analogy alone, and here all analogy vanishes.
But have we, it may be asked, made in all this one step forward
j)j towards an explanation of the phenomena of consciousness or
m the discovery of its source? Assuredly not. The power of
| (| conceiving of a substance different from that of matter is still
Ki beyond the limits of human intelligence, and the physical or
h j objective conditions, which are the concomitants of thought, are
!) i the only ones of which it is possible to know anything, and the
\}\ only ones whose study is of value.
We are not, however, on that account forced to the conclusion
j > i that there is nothing in the universe but matter and force. The
i I! simplest physical law is absolutely inconceivable by the highest
j (! of the brutes, and no one would be justified in assuming that
(j man had already attained the limit of his powers. Whatever
I) i may be that mysterious bond which connects organisation with
1)! psychical endowments, the one grand fact—a fact of inestimable
l) | importance—stands out clear and freed from all obscurity and
I (j doubt, that from the first dawn of intelligence there is with every
i; i advance in organisation a corresponding advance in mind. Mind
I; i as well as body is thus travelling onwards through higher and
j;I still higher phases; the great law of evolution is shaping the
j(j destiny of our race; and though now we may at most but
i;j indicate some weak point in the generalisation which would
i) j refer consciousness as well as life to a common material source,
|) i who can say that in the far off future there may not yet be
11! evolved other and higher faculties from which light may stream
j in upon the darkness, and reveal to man the great mystery of
|) | thought ?
Thereupon is great joy among the votaries of
|{ materialism—meaning by this term those who deny
|)| the existence of anything other than the proto-
hj plasmic structure that grows, matures, decays, and
|)| dies, that is to say, is resolved into its elements.
j) j “There is an end,” they say, “to your psychological
n dream. Behold the stuff of which you are formed!
rj Lo, what life comes to! See here what you were,
m what you will be—a mere spoonful of jelly. No
j;i place for soul there. You cannot find it anywhere
j:j in that piece of pulp. In your origin there is
j(j nothing to distinguish you from the caterpillar or
jjj the cabbage. Cease then to prate of soul, or spirit,
( or whatever you are pleased to call it. Your life is
m in the cell structure of which you are formed; your-
|(i self is but the collective sensation of the infinite
!) i small sensations of the infinite cells that have grown
I; 1 one out of the other by the expansion of that proto-
j)j plasmic pulp, and death is only the disintegration or
j(j the collapse of those cells whose agglomerated lives
|; j made your life. Let soul henceforth be relegated to
j the region of dream. Let your Psychological
hj Society acknowledge the baselessness of its science,
j ! and retire from the vain endeavour to chase a phan-
jj| tom and prove the impossible.”
Such in substance is the argument drawn from
I the protoplasmic teachings of Professor Allman’s
| address.
THE FORMATIVE POWER IN NATURE.
Has psychology an answer? Yes. A triumphant
• answer.
248 THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 21. 1879.
Do we dispute the President’s facts or his philo¬
sophy? Not one whit. Do we call his theory of
pfbtoplasm a dream ? By no means. On the con¬
trary, we accept it entirely as a proved reality. We
greet with a hearty welcome that ultima Thule of
the materialists.
You have traced man to his elements, and what
do you find? The identical elements to which you
trace the beast, the bird, the fish, the tree, the
fungus. You can distinguish nothing in the jellies
to indicate what they were or what'they will be.
But here you suddenly stand still. The world that
has been admiring your ingenuity in experiment,
your skill in marshalling your facts, the facility with
which you draw conclusions from those facts, is
looking with eager curiosity for the next step in
your exploration. You have presented to science in
a saucer your wonderful element of a man, or, to
speak more correctly, that wonderful element of all
organic life. The world, anxiously hanging upon
your lips, implores you to carry your researches just
one small step further, and tell it how that uniform
protoplasm becomes a man, a mite, a mussel, or a
moss-rose.
We pause for a reply.
What T is science ’ silent ? Are scientists dumb ?
Can it be that the hitherto omniscient confess to
ignorance ?
It is even so. “We can go no further,” they say,
“ than this protoplasmic jelly. Here our senses and
our instruments fail us alike. We cannot even
indulge in conjecture why this bit of protoplasm
becomes a man, or that a mollusc, or that a moss-rose.
We admit our ignorance. We do not seek to dissi¬
pate it. We know that it is unknowable. We
will not, therefore, look an inch beyond this proto¬
plasm. We cannot conceive of anything we do not
see, and we will see nothing that is inconceivable.
Human perception can penetrate no further. Proto¬
plasm, the visible material of life, is the limit of
research. Beyond it is a barrier science cannot pass,
nor can it ever hope to pass.”
This is what the physicists said twelve months ago,
and all who1 questioned their dogma were at once
denounced as fools or lunatics—the victims of delusion,
of diluted insanity.
But humanity needs not therefore to despair.
Physical science has indeed failed where most the
world desired enlightenment. At the point where it
deemed itself strongest it proves to be wea,kest. At
this point it is that another science—a science the
physiologists have derided, and whose very title they
have disputed, leaps the barrier that has baffled
physical science, and waves its votaries onwards and
upwards to a new world of knowledge. Psychology
marches forward from the very point at which physi¬
ology has halted ignominiously.
So far we have travelled together. The psycho¬
logists dispute nothing of the teachings of the
physiologists. We admit every detail of the
mechanism of the body, as taught by the most
advanb'e’d physiology; we accept, not reluctantly,
but cheerfully and hopefully, the protoplasmic
theory. It will be tjie future firm basis of our
psychology.
There, then, is protoplasm, the material in which
lj life is inherent. Physiologists do not profess to
)j know, and we do not pretend to know, what life
jj is, nor in what it inheres, nor how it is associated
)| with the ultimate particles of matter. It is not a
y] perceptible entity; we know it as a quality’ or
)j attribute of certain combinations of matter. It
yj belongs, says the physiologists, to the atoms of proto-
)j plasm, and is propagated by the expansion and side
yj growth of cells. '
So far good—but beyond ? No light—no voice.
Psychology steps upon the scene and claims a
/ j hearing. She takes up the wondrous tale at the point
yj at which physiology was baffled and confessed its in-
M competency to advance.
)j Hear her!
“ Thanks, a thousand thanks to you physiologists
yj for your discovery of protoplasm. My difficulty haS
yi been to account for the presence of life. My chief
)j mission has been to investigate the force that directs
yj the motions of the mechanism of man. I deemed it
;j to be something other than the force that moves the
yj mechanism, because that force was present in all
j other organised beings. But it was difficult to sever
y I experimentally these two forces, and almost impossible
U - to divest the popular mind of the conception of their
yj identity. This difficulty has been removed—physi-
jj ology has found the elements in which life resides—
y j and shown that life alone is not the force that directs
i and determines the motions of the mechanism.
(l “ Take, then, this protoplasm instinct with life—
)j the protoplasm of Allman ’and Huxley—this uniform
\j gelatinous mass, this embryo of animated being. I
) j ask, What is it that moulds this mass into definite and
\ j different organic structures ?
“ What causes this bit of jelly to develop into a
{j man, and that into a cabbage ? ”
Now that is precisely the subject-matter of our
yj science of psychology. Surely a sufficiently real
/! subject—a sufficiently rational subject—a sufficiently
yj important subject, to invite investigation, claim
)j labour and thought, and command the attention of
y j the loftiest intellects.
For this much at least is certain—something is at
yl work with that protoplasm—something moulds that
yj uniform pulp into the infinite variety of living forms
>j we see.
What is that something which seizes and shapes
)j that homogeneous protoplasm and constructs out of it
y j the marvellous mechanism of man, and the not less
jj marvellous mechanism of beast, and bird, and
yj flower?
That something, whatever it be, is what we
\ j psychologists intend when we speak of “ Soul ” or
jj “Spirit.” Our reference is to the thing that takes
yj to itself the protoplasmic elements of life, and builds
j j about itself the complicated body that is perceptible
yj to our senses.’
That something indeed is invisible, impalpable,
yj imperceptible by any of our five senses. But not the
yj less is it because it is imperceptible. We know—
yj Professor Allman admits—that it must be there,
| because we see the shape it takes when it arise^ out
yj of protoplasm. It is not a fancy—a conjecture—a
jj craze—bxxt & reality. Protoplasm would remain as
j a jelly for ever unless something moved among it
!)! and moulded it into the forms of individual being.
249
Nov. 21. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST,
And the forms so moulded are definite forms.
They are not merely sportive shapes infinitely
varied ; they are beings—individuals—conscious
selves—having sensations and existing for definite
ends.
They rise, as it were, out of the ocean of proto¬
plasm, take shapes, live lives, play a part in the
scheme of creation, and, having played their part, the
protoplasmic structures are dissolved and fall hack
again into that ocean of protoplasm whence they had
emerged!
SPIRITUAL POWERS.
What, then, is the something that takes these
shapes, and thus becomes perceptible, and plays a
part in this molecular portion of creation ?
I repeat this is what psychology calls “ Soul ” or
“Spirit,” but whose existence, hitherto denied, and
derided by physical science, that very science, by the
discovery of protoplasm, proved to be a fact, and,
more than this, has publicly acknowledged it.
And what does it prove ?
This. There is something invisible, impalpable,
imperceptible by our imperfect senses that broods
upon, or more probably permeates, that protoplasm,
giving to it shape and character, sensation, conscious¬
ness, individuality, and intelligence. Itself imper¬
ceptible by the cell-formed senses, that something
becomes perceptible when it clothes itself with proto¬
plasmic matter as with a garment. Of its own power,
or by any conceivable indwelling force, protoplasm
could not mould itself even into the structure of a
monad, much less into the curiously complicated
mechanism of man, with his self-consciousness and
his intelligence. Is it not more reasonable and
probable that the, forms so emerging from the proto¬
plasmic jelly are not the automatic products of that
jelly, but that the independent existences borrow the
protoplasmic cells, with their inherent life-force, for
the performance of their work in a world constructed
of molecules—protoplasm itself being a special mole¬
cular combination of atoms the function of which is
—Life.
Professor Allman distinctly recognises this con¬
clusion from the facts, not indeed as an established
truth, but as the probable presumption from those
facts. “ Here,” he says, “ we stand upon the
boundary between life in its proper conception as a
group of phenomena having irritability as their
common bond, and that other and higher group of
phenomena which we designate as consciousness or
thought, and which, however intimately connected
with those of life, are yet essentially distinct from
them."
Verily this is a grand truth to be proclaimed from
the platform of the British Association. Remember
that it is an eloquent and emphatic repudiation of
the materialism that has hitherto been taught from
that platform. It is to us a great triumph, for it is
a distinct acceptance of the principle for which
psychology has so long fought, and upon which its
claim to be a science—namely, the existence of some
entity other than the protoplasmic structure; an
entity existing under other conditions, and doubtless
subject to other laws of being than is the molecular
mechanism whose formation, growth, being, and dis¬
solution are presented to our material senses.
This entity is what, for lack of a better name, we
call soul or spirit. The purpose of our science is the
investigation of the entity as recognised by Professor
ill Allman as being “ exhibited in other and a higher
!}i group of phenomena” than the phenomena of life.
But, having thus practically accepted the basis of
m psychology, we do emphatically protest against the
i(| Professor’s conclusion, that at this point there is a bar-
j \ | rier impassable by human intelligence. He asserts that,
| (I although something other than protoplasm exists, we
m can know nothing beyond that protoplasm. “Have
i{! we,” he says, “made in all this one step further
} | towards an explanation of the phenomena of con-
| < | sciousness, or the discovery of its source ? Assuredly
m not. The power of conceiving a substance differing
Kj from that of matter is still beyond the limits of
;}j human intelligence.” “But,” he adds, “we are not
| < ] on that account forced to the conclusion that there is
!>! nothing in the universe but matter and force.”
Psychology joins issue with him as to this. We
!>! admit the existence of other combinations of atoms
|(; than that which makes molecules, which is but one of
| > | the infinite combinations of atoms our senses are con-
j(| structed to perceive. But we deny that such an
|) | entity is either absolutely inconceivable, or that there
m is any difficulty in the conception of it. The ques-
! j tion is not, can we conceive this, but do such non-
jyj molecular forms exist as a fact in nature, and
j)] is it practicable for science to learn something of
m them ?
Psychology asserts that not only can it conceive of
Kj such non-protoplasmic entities, but that it is within
|)j its capacity not merely to prove their existence, but
j)j to discover much in relation to their nature, powers,
and functions.
And how does psychology propose to do this ? By
!)j noting the action of that imperceptible something
m upon the perceptible protoplasmic structure and
j)i the substances that are perceptible to the senses
hi because they are molecular. We claim to have
I \ j accomplished already not a little in this direction, and
lyj we hope to discover very much more hereafter.
Hitherto we have been met by denial on the part
j } of physicists of the existenqe of anything but the
U\ protoplasmic material of life. ct Your science,” they
j j have said, “is no science, for that which it professes
K; to investigate is non-existing: it cannot be, and
\{\ therefore it is not.”
But now their president asserts its existence. But
j(j he adds that it is inconceivable, and therefore un-
j (j knowable.
Psychology replies that it can be conceived without
j j difficulty, and investigated by the same process as the
\)\ physical sciences are explored, by observation of
K j phenomena and gathering together of facts for its
j)j foundation.
But half the controversy is closed by the Presi-
j;j dent’s address; and this is the event in the review of
j(j the past year which psychology may fairly claim for
jij itself as a great victory.
| (j THE SIFTING- OF THE EVIDENCE IN FAVOUR OF PSYCHOLOGICAL
i! ' ’ I ‘ ; PHENOMENA.
j Now while this conversion of physicists to the fact
j that there is something other than protoplasm t]iat
I moulds protoplasm to shape and intelligence has |)een
250
THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 21. 1870.
proceeding without, the society has not been idle within | (
itself. It has inaugurated what may prove to be the |)
beginning of a new era in scientific research. Some K
years ago I ventured a suggestion that a vast advan- | >
tage would be won for science if a scientific tribunal K
could be established for trial of alleged scientific
experiment and observation, by whom witnesses j\
might be heard to detail the facts, to whom argu- |)
ments based upon those facts might be addressed, j)
and thus the truth ascertained by the hearing of 0
both sides under the test of cross-examination, pre- |)
cisely as we pursue the truth in disputed matters in j>
the business of life, and in our courts of justice.
The suggestion found very general approval, but jj
there were obvious practical difficulties in the way of j)
its adoption as a scheme applicable to all scientific | ;
research. Nevertheless, there was no apparent H
objection to making trial of it by individual societies, \l
and it seemed to be specially adapted for such a |)
society as this, which avows itself a collector of facts, j (
The scheme was new, but it was fraught with obvious I)
advantages. The only question was, if it would find j(
approval with the members and the public.
The novelty was peculiarly adapted for the promo- |(
tion of psychology as a science, the facts and j;
phenomena of which, having been but lately invest!- j;
gated, were, like all novelties, received with more or 1)
less of denial or doubt. It was obviously desirable {
that the evidence should be thoroughly sifted before j)
it was accepted as the basis for scientific deduction. K
The proposal was that evidence should be taken in )
the open court of the meetings of the society, where |(
the voluntary testimony of witnesses could be b
examined and cross-examined, and the precise extent jj
and nature of their observations and experiments j;
ascertained by that which experience has shown to \{
be the only test of truth. j /
We felt that if this could be accomplished it ||
would be of inestimable value, not to this society |/
alone, but to all science : for if successful here the I;
example would very likely be largely followed by b
other scientific associations.
Our only doubt was, if witnesses would present j{
themselves so confident in the correctness of their j>
observations, and the truth of their statements, as K
thus to avouch them where they could be at once n
subjected to critical examination.
The experiment was tried at the close of the last j)
session with a success surpassing our anticipations. K
Two evenings were devoted to this most interesting |)
and instructive work. It must be confessed that the j<
reading of papers, however learned, is for the most j>
part somewhat tedious to an audience. But vi/vd voce j<
examination is singularly lively and amusing. More- |)
over, it is in truth far more instructive, inasmuch as j (
it conveys to the audience facts instead of mere dis- j>
quisition. So it proved in practice. The scheme <
will be continued during the present session, so long, j)
at least, as witnesses present themselves, and of these |(
there is no lack. To perfect the scheme, evidence 1/
and examination are followed by discussion, expressly j\
to elicit from those who have heard it opinions as to |/
the causes and consequences, the worth or the worth- j \
lessness of the facts and phenomena that have been |)
thus attested. K
It would, of course, be extremely desirable if the I)
valuable evidence thus taken should be printed and
circulated. But the funds of the society do not permit
of so costly an enterprise. A suggestion has been
made that a report should be published periodically, at
a moderate price, for the use of those who may desire
to preserve minutes of the proceedings. If some such
arrangement could be made, the Council would gladly
adopt it.
A SOUL IN NATURE.
If the past year has been so productive of advan¬
tage to psychological science, we may venture to hope
for much more from the session that opens to-day.
We stand upon far firmer ground now than we occu¬
pied when we commenced our wrork. The very
foundations of our science were then denied almost
with indignation. Now, as I have shown you, science
in its highest place and from the lips of its chosen
mouthpiece has confessed, not only that there is a
point at which physiology ends, but that at that point
some other science begins—a science that relates to
something beyond physiology, and which physiology
can neither explore nor explain. The grand task of
exploration and explanation is the proper province o
psychology. Physiology descends from structure to
protoplasm. Psychology, moving onward and upward,
ascends from protoplasm to soul. Physiology reduces
man to a jelly; psychology lifts him to an im¬
mortality. There is in the pursuit of this our science
a grandeur and a dignity that cannot fail to impart
something of themselves to the student who honestly
enters upon the path with brave resolve to pursue it
to the end.
And what is that end ? Knowing what we know,
and seeing what we see, there can be little doubt of
the goal at which we shall arrive. It is indeed, as
yet, very dimly and doubtfully to be perceived, afar
off and more, perhaps, by the eye of faith than by
the sensual eye. But to that end tends every new
fact revealed to us, and all investigation of the causes
of observed phenomena. It is, in truth, the only
reasonable solution of the problem which protoplasm
has presented to the thoughtful mind of Professor
Allman. It is here advanced, not as a dogma
(psychology has no dogmas; it is a learner not a
teacher), but as a suggestion merely, based, however,
upon some, though avowedly as yet imperfect, know¬
ledge of facts.
The suggestion is that there is a soul in nature—
that nature itself is soul; that all the molecular
structures perceptible by our senses are not the sub¬
stance but the incrustation, the shell, the integument
only of the molecular something that underlies it
and gives to it shape and character. For this is the
grand mystery of all being—of inorganic equally
with organic structure—what shapes it ? Why does
intake certain definite forms and no other ? To this
question science has not condescended to give atten¬
tion. I do not remember that ever it has been
asked by any scientist. It is not enough to say that
it is the fiat of Divinity ; for Divinity has manifestly
established the reign of law—creation is by evolu¬
tion. We say that the formative force is that some¬
thing we call soul; and seeing that force in operation
everywhere, and everything taking some definite
shape, it is surely a reasonable conclusion that the
shaping soul is everywhere.
Nov. 21. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 251
But, if everywhere, in what condition of existence ?
What, in fact, should we see if our eyes were
suddenly endowed with a power of vision competent
to receive and convey to the mind the impressions
of non-molecular being, as now they are of molecular
being ?
THE WORLD OF SPIRITS.
Without stirring a step, without the addition of
an inch to the range of vision, within the circle
which a minute before was a void about which was
scattered a few visible things, we should witness a
new world, thronged with inhabitants. The embodied
souls of men would be seen more plainly than their
bodies were seen before by the natural eye. The
soul would appear as the substance of the man, and
the molecular body as a mere clothing of the soul,
that is in fact the man. We should see that soul (or
spirit) often exercising influences upon other sub¬
stances outside the body, and often enabled to hold
direct communication with the souls having other
bodies without the intervention of the senses. We
should doubtless see forms like our own, but which,
being of non-molecular structure, we could not see
with our molecular vision. The world thus revealed
would possibly be a reflex of that we call our world.
All space might well be peopled with some forms of
being—“but while this muddy vesture of decay doth
grossly hem us in we cannot see it.”
This is but one of the vast regions that present
themselves to the psychologist for exploration. I
ask you, then, to give your hearty co-operation in the
great work that lies before us. It is not dull work,
nor tedious work, for every step opens to you new
wonders. It is not “ harsh and rugged, as dull fools
suppose, but musical as is Apollo’s lute.” It teems
with questions the most interesting—the most elevat¬
ing—that could engage the intelligence. We beheve
that by instituting the vivti voce examinations of
witnesses, we have given a new and vastly increased
impetus to the progress of psychological science,
enlisting, as it does, the ears and thoughts of those
who could not give the needful attention to mere dis¬
quisition. You can best promote this great work by
your presence at these amusing and instructive in¬
vestigations, submitting doubts, asking particulars,
and suggesting explanations. That is the present
duty of this society, and to that we earnestly invite
you, believing that it has opened the true pathway to
the certain triumphs that await our science in the
future.
A DEATH TRANCE.
“ My mother being sick of fever,” says Lady Fan-
shawe in her memoirs, “ her friends and servants
thought her deceased, and she lay in that state for
two days and a night; but Mr. Winslow, coming to
comfort my father, went into my mother’s room, and
looking earnestly in her face said, ‘ She was so hand¬
some, and looked so lovely, that he could not think
her dead; ’ and suddenly taking a lancet out of his
pocket he cut the soul of her foot, which bled. Upon
this he immediately caused her to be removed to the
bed again, and to be rubbed, and such means used
that she came to life, and opening her eyes saw two
of her kinswomen standing by her, Lady Knollys and
| Lady Russell, both with great wide sleeves, as the
i fashion then was, and she said, ‘ Did you not pro-
| mise me fifteen years, and are you come again
I already ? ’ which they, not understanding, bade her
| keep her spirits quiet in that great weakness wherein
| she was; but, some hours after, she desired my
| father and Dr. Howlesworth might be left alone with
! her, to whom she said, f I will acquaint you that
| during my trance I was in great grief, but in a place I
I could neither distinguish nor describe ; but the sense
| of leaving my girl, who is dearer to me than all my
| children, remained a trouble upon my spirits. Sud-
| denly I saw two by me, clothed in long white gar-
| ments, and methought I fell down upon my face in
I the dust, and they asked me why I was so troubled
i in so great happiness. I replied, “ Oh, let me have
| the same grant given to Hezekiah, that I may live
I fifteen years to see my daughter a woman,” to which
| they answered, “ It is done ! ” and then at that instant
| I awoke out of my trance,’ And Dr. Howlesworth
| did affirm that that day she died made just fifteen
| years from that time/’
CAPTAIN BURTON’S TRAVELS ECLIPSED.
“ Few of the great European collections of
)j paintings are forlorn of works illustrating the topo-
\ | graphy and architecture of Hades, as sketched out in
/j Dante’s immortal verse. Sociefcy,however, has hitherto
U yearned in vain for any authentic description of
)| his Satanic Majesty’s dominions, illustrated by draw-
U ings executed on the spot; and it has been reserved
)| for Professor Leuchin, of Moscow, to fill up this
\ | hiatus by a work which he has just published, under the
) I title of The Mysteries of Hell and its Inhabitants—•
(j a folio volume, enriched by seventy photographs.
Some of these are portraits of the leading native
v. celebrities, while others reproduce the processes of
) | torment most in vogue amongst the present adminis-
V| trators of the Tartarean penal code. In his preface
)! to this remarkable book, the learned Professor gravely
(\ remarks: ‘We have heretofore only been able, by
)j the aid of conjecture, to arrive at a dim appre-
(\ hension of the tortures that await us in the sub-
) | terranean realm; but I have at last, after protracted
( and all but superhuman exertions, succeeded in
H throwing light upon all this more or less vague
\ | information, and in producing an absolutely
U authentic description of Hell and its inhabitants.
>| Seventy striking original photographs of eminent
< I infernal personages, and a faithful depictment
of the Last Judgment, will be found to repre-
(j sent completely and exhaustively all those phe-
j| nomena which have hitherto proved insolubly
(j enigmatical to humanity at large.’ It is to be
\\ regretted that the Professor should have pre-
served a Sphynxian silence respecting the details of
hi his journey in the lower regions, and of the visits he
j)j must have paid to the diabolical dignitaries who so
h| amiably permitted him to photograph their expres-
m sive lineaments. In enabling us, however, to con-
hj template undoubted likenesses of Lucifer, Ashtaroth,
j (| Beelzebub, and sundry other distinguished characters
f I of the same class, Professor Leuchin has established
m a claim to our lasting gratitude.”—Daily Teleqravh.
Hi Nov. 18th, 1879.
252
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 2], 1879.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR:
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the ate 'Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.i
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric: Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
i CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V: —Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons^—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the sanie—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator-
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reiehenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
orMesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, <fcc. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characteia—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:'—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: .Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular, Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
. CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street London.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and G-alileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Scien/?'., devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and rpported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a' few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
B. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week ; angular,, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether,
Nov. 21, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
MRS. WELDON’S BENEFIT
CONOllRT will take place at St. James’s Hall,
on Saturday, 22nd November, 7.30. Tickets 7s. Gd.,
Cs., 3s., 2s., and Is,. Mrs. Weldon will herself conduct
the Band and Choir. Gallig, (Gounod), Nourm'ihal,
and Amarillo, (ITrich), are among the pieces de resis¬
tance ; and Sir Julius Benedict will conduct an overture
of his own.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. |.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE,,
Mr. White’s contention: is that there is place and use
In the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Sir. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. AH the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the eyerlastihg punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been; is. and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, ll, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Two Shillings, Post Free. Cloth. Eed Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. A lex ax nun. M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism,
“ Mr. Alexander is’ unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
T ECTURES ON NATURAL HISTORY.
1 1 DE. CARTER BLAKE’S private class will
meet in the Galleries of Natural History, British Mu¬
seum, on Thursday, 6th, Saturday, 8th, Thursday, 13th,
and Saturday, LSth November, from two to four p.m.
Tickets 2s. Gd. per lecture, or 7s. Gd. course.—Address
Dr. Carter Blake, 28, East-street, Queen-square, W,C.
RE-ENGAGEMENT DESIRED by a
German Governess (dipldmie). French Music
and all branches of an advanced English education;
£80.—Address Fraulein M'dller, at Dr. Galloway, 17,
Spring-terrace, North Shields.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for l£d.; or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN¬
GER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
of the current year, even to the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.,
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
British national associa
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Groat Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy .one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 8 Rue de
la Oossoniero, Paris.
Now Ready,'
ZADKIEL’S ALMANAC for 1880,
Price Sixpence,
Containing:—Voice of the Stars—Weather Predic¬
tions—A Hieroglyphic, &c.—Zadkiel foretold the Zulu
War and the very day of Isandlana, also the Afghan
War, the severe winter and cold spring.
London : Cousins and Co., 3, York-streel, Oovent
Garden.
Price 3s. Gd. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RlFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxbn),’’ and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the-Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To Yon who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
‘\M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVTII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
. XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
O. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVI1.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“M.A., Oxon.” .
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” ■ By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D-D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy,- Berne ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex, Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties- of the Clergy in
Relation to Spirituahsm. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits, in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on, Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of- Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jehcken—Spirit Forms
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Medxumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King. • .
ChApterIV.—Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force. . ,,
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? — Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes -r= Spinoza — Herbert, Spencer — Swedenborg r-
Probfs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Hall—W. H, Harrison..
Chapter Vlt.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her own
Account—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kishngbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—^Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—^Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments,
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Natures—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant—Strauss -r-Leon Caser-
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price 5s. Gd.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE ”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state Of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part L
L—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song o
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
PART II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XV
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal deludes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue N©tive des
Petits Champs, faris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
iv
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
Christmas Pudding,
USE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S EETJIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FKUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
■world."
QTIMULANTS AND INSUFFICIENT
IO AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those, who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SaLT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
1 he Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&C., &c., use
ENO’S EMIT SALT.
ANATUBAL APEBIENT.—ENO’S
FRUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value ,in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
Fagged, weaby, and wobn
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or mmatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FBUIT SALT.—“14, Buedela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Beral.
ENO’S FBUIT SALT.—“ After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try END’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ SUCCESS IN LIFE.”—A new in-
)0 vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CA UTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.’’ Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FBUIT SALT WOBKS,
Hatcham, London, S.E.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price Five Shillings. Grown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS..
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Oraphie, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the coyer designed by Florence
Olaxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—i. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!"—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. — 29. The July Bug. — 30. The Converted
Carman.  
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.   
PBIMITIYE CHBISTIANITY AND
MODEBN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office. 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.O.
LE JOUBNALDU MAGNETISME,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
The tbapped medium;
OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, 6£d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
BBIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
November, 1879.] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL BE VIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
Lectures by Dr. Peebles—A Psychological Study of
Shelley: J.T. Markley—The Spiritual Manifestations
of Two Hundred Years Ago: T. L. Nichols—Joseph
Barker's Testimony—A Letter of Mrs. L. M. Child—
A Ghost Story: Mary S. G. Nichols—What is Spirit¬
ualism ? F. C. Cook, Chicago—Popular Errors and
Objections to Spiritualism Explained and Answered—
Notes and Gleanings; Hebrew Ideas of God; Papers
for the Times; Moral Objections to Spiritualism;
O’er the Silent River; Whittier’s Attitude to Spirit¬
ualism; Almost an Exposure; The Spirit Life; Fort¬
nightly Discussion Meetings. Spiritual Lyrics: Ecce
Homo Ecce Deus.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW Hay Nisbet & Co., 52, Ropework-lane
Nov. 21, 1879.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . 7 6
The Teacher! „ II. „ ..76
The Seer. „ HI. „ ..76
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, . .76
The Thinker. „ V. , ... 7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . ..76
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People . . ... . . .70
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . • .76
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .30
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Southampton- uildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares. '
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 5s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“H.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office S3, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
CONTENTS.
Characteristics of the Hindus    241
Correspondence:—Who looks after the Sufferers ?
—Representative Bodies—Mr. Fletcher and
Dr. Slade—A Private SJance   242
Death Warning in a Dream   243
Spiritualism in the Provinces  244
The Spiritualism of Alice and Phoebe Carey:—
Apparitions of Living Mortals       244
The Last of the Boons     245
A Private Stance 246
“ Crampe Rings, and Creepinge to the Crosse ” ... 246
The Progress of Psychology. By Edward W. Cox,
Serjeant at-Law, President of the Psycholo¬
gical Society of Great Britain:—Psychology at
the British Association— The Formative
Power in Nature—Spiritual Powers—The
Sifting of the Evidence in Favour of Psycholo¬
gical Phenomena—A Soul in Nature—The
World of Spirits     247
A Death Trance     251
Captain Burton’s Travels Eclipsed   251
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood's Rents.
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, Lonlon, and pub¬
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C
