Registered is A. Newspaper,
tomedtEr Spmtealism m W&BBjfo
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : ir, Ave Maria-lane, St, Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille* LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomeryrplace, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.:,225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO,: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 285. (Vol. XII.—-No. 6.) LONDON : FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
<Erintent8.
Objectionable Investigators... ... ... ,.i  61
More Freedom for Women ...      61
The Human “Double”      62
A Society Without a Dogma. By H. P. Blavatsky  ... 62
Review:—The Triumph of Love: a Mystical Poem, in
Songs, Sonnets, and Verse  ‘...   63
The Intellectual Status of Spiritualism. By J. T. Markley,
Author of Stray'Thoughts on Many Themes, <fcc., &c.... 64
Theosophical Ideas. By Col. Henry S. Olcott, President of
the Theosophical Society of New York ... ... ... ...65
The Formation of Materialised Spirits. By A. J. Cranstoun 66
New Materialisation Phenomena 67
The Soul Revelations. By Peary Chand Mittra   ...67
Poetry:—An Autumn Evening Scene  ...  68
CorrespondenceMadame Blavatsky on the Views of the
Theosophists— Space and Time—More Freedom for
Women—To “Inspired Evangelists of Naught”—Public
Lectures—The Horary Question—Spirit Photography in
the Dark—Manifestations with Mme. Blavatsky—Dr.
Wyld’s Paper—Dr. Slade in St. Petersburg—Voice and
Physical Manifestations ... :   • ... 68
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—
Inquirers' Seances ...         ... 71
Occultism    ... ...   72
Answers to Correspondents  ... ... 72
Paragraphs:—The War, 67; Dr. Slade and the Leipzig Pro¬
fessors, 72 ; Spiritualism in Dalston  72
« THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
HSTABHSHHD IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
' The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E, F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;NHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author oi
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr.' J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ;(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, I3s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. ’ Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso, Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New;York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
, All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id..—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for February, 1878.
Friday, 8th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„• „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Monday Wth.—*Foktniqhtly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
Tuesday, llth.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m,
,, „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m. Special
Council Meeting to follow.
Wednesday, 18th.—Inquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. W.
Eglinton.
Friday, 15th.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 20th—Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Inquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. W.
Eglinton.
Friday, 22nd.—^Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Monday, 26<A.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
•FORTNIGHTLY MEETINGS.
On Monday, 11th inst., Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., will
read a paper on “ Stigmatisation." Admission free to Mem¬
bers and their Friends.
SEANCES.
Seances for Inquirers are held weekly at 38, Great Russell-
street. Inquirers may have Tickets free, on application to
the Secretary, with personal recommendations from a Member.
Admission to Members and one Friend, Is. each. Private
Seances for advanced manifestations for Members only, by
special arrangement. Admission 5s.  
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is 'to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and- by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.  ■ 
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one andean easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms :—18o, Liverpool Street, London, E.O.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.;
post free, seven stamps.  
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.Oi
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon;
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mb. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863), From the 60th thousand.
  , Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.  
BUSINESS.
A GENTLEMAN (A private medium)
Preparing to introduce at the Paris Exhibition one of the most
important inventions of the age, one which will bestow some
of the greatest blessings of God to man, requires the loan of
£500 immediately to complete the requisite machinery, models,
<fec. Liberal interest and good security can be given. Principals
only are requested to address at once, appointing personal
interview, to A. G., care of Mr. E; R. Marsh, 49, OMppenham-
road, Paddington, W.
Just published, price 5s., richly gilt,
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O 1 Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-RIchmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How th'e writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist,'Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burae—A Story of, a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By tlie Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna |Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.’’—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. O. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs In India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voles of Conscience. B.y Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F.R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
 W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
ASTROLOGY. “ Worth its weight in gold.”
Every adult person living should purchase at once
“YOUR FUTURE FORETOLD,” a book of 144 pp., cloth, only
2s. 6d. London: Berger, Newcastle-street, and J. Burns; or
post-free of E. Casael, High-street, Watford, Herts. Instruc-'
tions to purchasers gratis.   ■
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE, a narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse.' Price 2s,
From the Autho", at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Dcrijy.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 8, 1878
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Dldsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernaxd-villas, tipper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Eitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.E J., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C. —i—
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshcad, W. P., Derby House, Beiper.
Ashton, E. P., Harcom-t Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, New'castle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A.,24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
■ Brown, James, 169, Eglinton-street,. Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Difnkeld-street,-Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malapar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
. Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H-, 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34. Walnut-street, Cheefham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Olendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, NAY.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regeut’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reiroers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Str'awbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawhridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackhealh, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. E. Andre, Esq. . H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don SantiagoBassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visoonde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon;- Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S. A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
Ms C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq,, Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
II. T. Child, Esq., M D„ 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. ktorw' Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. j. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. GledstaneS;Esq.,33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery,Esq., 2, Rue-de Rocroi, Paris.
Rov. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de rtjnion, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Glducester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
MrsJHallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Beigrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
jST £ipl&s.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
AMca.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Procliaszka, J osefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gagse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq.,"53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
S: Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff SpirituatSocietyi Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J.43mart, 3, Guild-
ford-street," Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola.. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad.’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana PresidenW-
Senbr Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Scnor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE : described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education ; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
ASTROLOGY, a popular sketch of Celestial
. Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J. Pearce, author
of the Weather Guide - Boole, &e. Price Is. London:
Berger, Newcastle-street, Strand. Sent post free by the
author on receipt of twelve penny stamps; address, 3, Cedars-
terrace, Lavender-hill, S.W.
" “ This work is the best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacquainted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily understood idea of what it really is ; and before under¬
taking to learn anything about it by any of my own works, I
advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.”—Zadkiel.
N.B.—The author gives private instruction in Astrology.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
(f'C., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This boob, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 j  Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S.. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. W. EGLINTON
Has returned to'town, and may be addressed,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON^
 S.W. 
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN,
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours,
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes.
MADAME LLANCORI^,
At home from 11 till 4, for Music, Trance, Clairvoyance, and
Automatic Writing.
25, GUILFORD STREET, RUSSELL SQUARE.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
"j^/f'DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
J3_L At home from 12 to 6 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
TH W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
JLU® engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
fNURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hili,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired).
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.C.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
RS. WOODFORDE, 90, Great Russell-
. street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Days and hours of business--
lys, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, from 12 to
For visits of friendship, from 8 to 10 p.m.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may he inspected. Appointments by
letter. 40, St. Mary’s-terrace, Maida-hill West, London.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Birmey,
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
5 p.m.
KAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSENGER,
. ALMANAC and EPHEMERIS for 1878, containing
Predictions of the Weather and Mundane Events, Birthday
Notes, &c., &c. Post free, 7d. ; with Ephemeris, Is, Id.
Raphael's Guide to Astrology, containing rules and infor¬
mation whereby any person may calculate and judge a
nativity. The most original and simple work on Astrology
ever published. Cloth, gilt, 3s. London: J. E. Catty 12
Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
H/TEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
-avJL VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for Gd.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
IO PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.    
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E, W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C,
Price Is.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
Eubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage Sd. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
OEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion hook to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.   
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
EMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur; and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The hook is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY AND RICH, London ; Spirit¬
ualist Office.
ji :|| tl nnh ^ll|it^ #f
Vo^ujvie Twelve. Kumbeh ^ix.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8th, 1878.
OBJECTIONABLE INVESTIGATORS.
Clear evidence has gradually been accumulated, that if
authorities adverse to spiritual truth are drawn or forced to
stances, the facts observed have little or nothing to do with
the conclusions they draw or the reports they give to the
public. The history of the doings of all but one of the
scientific committees formed to investigate Spiritualism,
amply substantiates this point. Hence it may not be amiss
to ask, whether the results attained are worth the abuse
invited by the forcing of Spiritualism upon those who do
not earnestly and sincerely come again and again, seeking
for information.
What good, for instance, will be done by Dr. Slade’s
visit to St. Petersburg ? If a scientific committee is
appointed, its members will begin by demanding that the
phenomena shall be evolved under dictated conditions
instead of under those demonstrated by experience to be
necessary, which is equivalent to an ignorant man demanding
a chemist to produce volumes of nitrogen from water, under
penalty of otherwise being condemned as an impostor by his
most intelligent judge. Next, when any weak phenomena
occur, explicable as within the power of man to produce, the
observers will certify that they are produced by the medium,
none of the ordinary treatment of men in society being
meted out to him. But next comes the tug of war. Some¬
thing occurs which no honest man can allege to be
done by the medium, and the committee is in a
blaze. The witnesses are average men, great in their own
narrow grooves in life, but outside those grooves have little
moral backbone in them, and they do not for one moment
feel inclined to expose themselves to ridicule and abuse.
They therefore draw up a garbled report, which is repudiated
by the minority of witnesses on the side of the medium, |
placed upon the committee by wise prior agreement. Great j
hubbub is caused by one of the disbelievers being won over I
by the facts, and honestly voting with the minority. But
the majority bring out the report, the newspapers ignore
the statements of the minority, and Spiritualism in general,
and the medium in particular, are soundly abused. It is
the old story over again. No connection with astrology is
necessary for the utterance of the present prophecy, and we
hope that the proposed St. Petersburg committee will be the
last invited by Spiritualists to observe the phenomena, until
the time has arrived when scientific men earnestly ask to see
them, and agree to write a humble apology for the miscon¬
duct of their representatives in the past. So far as individ¬
uals or organisations do not press the subject upon antago¬
nistic persons, so far is Spiritualism kept out of abuse, and
it is questionable whether the inharmonious forcing of it
makes it grow any faster.
MORE FREEDOM FOR WOMEN.
Last week attention was called in these pages to some
social customs which painfully fetter the liberty of women; the
facts were collected from various sources, and in some in¬
stances the grievances mentioned were so serious as to have
caused the sufferers to run away from home. These sorrows
cannot yet be avoided, and the world must be taken as we
find it. The age is materialistic, and the average individual
of the time has instincts bound up with a hard, ingrained
selfishness; consequently, his soul cannot vibrate to the j
richer music of the higher world, to thoughts that breathe |
and words that burn” in more celestial climes. It cannot |
receive or clothe with mental imagery the ideas from heaven
sent down, but, groping in the darkness of low motives and j
ignoble aims, works out its own salvation, in one or more !
existences, until it is gradually cleansed by the fire of suf¬
fering which it had prepared for itself in ignorance. The 1
| | general purport of Swedenborg’s teachings, that heaven is
|| within and not without ourselves ; that love of others is
| (] heaven and love of self is hell, is unanswerable; but some
| generations must die out before this truth can be generally
| recognised.
i During the past few years several trades and professions
I from which women were once excluded have been thrown
| open to them, and organisations exist for training them in
i | various duties, and assisting them to obtain permanent em-
j j ployment. Chief among these is a The Society for Pro*
| | moting the Employment of Women,” in connection with
| < | the Social Science Association. The society was established
||| in 1860, has offices at 22, Berners-street, Oxford-street, Lon-
| | don, and is under the presidency of the Earl of Shaftesbury. The
| last annual report sets forth that during the year it obtained
| permanent employment for 94 applicants, and temporary
employment for 224. It gives particulars about various
trades in which women can work. There is an Art Pottery
| Studio at 68, Newman-street, in which ladies turn to good
account their artistic skill and knowledge of design, and
give lessons to others. Miss Collingridge, of 13, Dorset-
street, Portman-square, follows art decoration as a pro¬
fession, and receives pupils and apprentices, who de¬
sign hangings and papers, and paint tiles, panels, and
windows. Miss Crosby has a Plan Tracing Office at
24, Queen Anne’s-gate, Westminster, at which en-
| gineers and architects drawings are copied by ladies.
I ! Mr. Paterson, engraver, East Temple-chambers, White-
i | friars-street, Fleet- street, instructs women in wood en-
1 ‘ | graving; the higher branches of this art are difficult to
learn, but when acquired secure good remuneration. Women
have difficulty in getting sufficient employment as shorthand
writers. At the new Hospital for Women, 222, Marylebone-
road, women are trained as dispensers, but the demand for
their services is at present small. Miss Isabella Clark was
the first Englishwoman qualified to practise as a pharmaceu¬
tical chemist, and is now established at 18, Spring-street,
Paddington. There is a great demand for trained hospital
nurses, and even the probationers are fairly remunerated.
A Women’s Printing Society, Limited, has begun operations
at 21b, Great College-street, Westminster, and Messrs. Bale,
of Great Titchfield-street, train girls in this work. The
Women’s Employment Society teaches book-keeping, and
has obtained situations for many it has so taught; there is
a fair opening for this kind of work. Miss Dodds conducts
a commercial school for girls at 41, Eegent-square. The
report of the society further gives the following useful in¬
formation :—
“ Although the necessity of training for girls is now much more felt
than formerly, the committee cannot issue their report without earnestly
insisting upOn it. It is still unfortunately too common for young
women to come to the office seeking employment who have no special
work which they can call their trade or profession, and who are too old
to serve apprenticeships. Girls leave school at fifteen or sixteen, and
remain at home for four or five years, forgetting any useful knowledge
they may have acquired, and, what is even worse, losing the habits of
order and application which are among the best fruits of school life.
| All regular work is distasteful to them, but if, on leaving school, they
| commenced their training for what is to be their calling in life, the
mind, accustomed to discipline, would be in a condition to receive
| instruction. Unless a woman of twenty has received some training,
I there are but few paid callings, except that of domestic service, open to
j her. Book-keeping can be learnt at this age, but it is only suitable for
I those who are quick and accurate in arithmetic and can write well,
j Hospital nursing can also be undertaken, but this again requires natural
| aptitude and very sound health.”
The following are some of the associations formed to pro-
I mote the interests of women—
j The Ladies’ Industrial Society, 11, Lower Porchester-street,
| Hyde-park. The Bedford Institute Sewing Society, Wheeler-
| street, Spitalfields, E., for the employment of East-end widows; Miss
j Gatlin. The Ladies’ "Work Society, 31, Sloane-street, S.W.,—Miss
62
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 8, 1878.
Wetton ; branch depot at 90, Bold-street, Liverpool. Miss Ford ham’s
Depot for the Sale of Ladies’ Work, 17, Duke-street, Manchester- ijj
square, W. Societies for Promoting the Employment of Women in H
Industrial Pursuits, with occasional classes and a free registry, are at j) j
work at 22, Berners-street, London—Sec., Miss King; 150, North- |sj
street, Brighton—Miss Slatter ; 25, Molesworth-street, Dublin—Miss j) i
A. B. Corlett. The Society for Promoting Female Welfare by the j(j
United Working of Institutions for Women and Girls, of good n]
Character, 47, Weymouth-street, Portland-place, W.; Miss Hutchinson. | )|
Female Middle-class Emigration Society; facilitates the emigration of i(j
gentlewomen and others above the ranks of domestic service; 12, |(!
Portugal-street, Lincoln’s-inn, W.C.; Miss J. E. Lewin. The Ladies’ )i
Sanitary Association, 22, Berners-street, London, W. ; Miss Bose (j
Adams. The Manchester Women’s Institute and Home, Central Offices, j I
107a, Manchester-street, Manchester. The Victoria Club, 25, Begent- j
street. The College for Working Women, 5, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy- jj
square. The College for Men and Women, 29, Queen-square, Blooms- )
bury, W.C.
The periodicals devoted to the interests of women are— j
TAe Enylishibomari1 s Review: published by Trilhner and Co.; and j
at 22, Berners-street, W. The Woman’s Education Journal: the organ )
of the Woman’s Education Union; published at the Office, 112, J
Brompton-road, S.W. The Women's Union Journal: the organ of j
the Woman’s Protective and Provident Union ; published at 31, Little j
Queen-street, Holborn, E.C. Friendly Leaves: the organ of the Girls’ j
Friendly Society; editor, Mrs. Townsend ; published by Hatchards, j
Piccadilly. The Homely Friend: containing tales, hymns, recipes, j
and useful information of all kinds for women and girls of the work- j
ing classes; Partridge and Co., Paternoster-row. The Woman’s Suf- i
f rage Journal; edited by Miss Becker. (
We notice that most of these journals do not recognise
The Queen, which is a good newspaper, as aiding their j
various branches of work. How is this ? \
THE HUMAN “DOUBLE.”
The Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.), of January 26th last, contains |
a long account of the career of the late Mrs. Hardy, the medium, |
including the following circumstances, which are of some philosophical j
interest:— |
Several instances of the appearance of persons in spirit, while said
individuals were yet alive, have occurred in her experience. A gentle- j
man, named Woods, a prominent citizen of Worcester, who was in the j
habit of consulting spirits frequently by private sittings at her residence, )
often made himself visible, and gave orders that she should assign a j
certain hour of a specified day to himself, by recording it upon her j
engagement book. He never failed to have some business—often un- )
expected—which called him to Boston on the day mentioned, and on (
such occasions, totally without previous intention, he would find himself j
saying, “ Well, I have so much time to spare, I will visit the medium, )
though I don’t suppose she is at leisure.” At first he was much asto- ]
nished at finding that the medium expected him, and was in some cases j
waiting for his arrival, refusing others who had come at a venture, and )
telling them the hour was engaged, and that they must wait till it had ] j
passed ; but, finally, he was led to consider it as a matter of course. j!
Another instance of this singular gift existed in the case of Mr. |
McGeary, of Salem, who was also seen by her on several occasions, \ j
when corporeally he was far distant. At his first appearance he directed j i
that she should write his name for three o’clock p.m. of the following ) j
day. She complied, and also recorded the hour of the day, which was j
eleven o’clock a.m. when she did so. He came punctually at the time j j
appointed, and she recognised him. Desirous of arriving at some better j
understanding of the phenomenon, she asked him what he was doing j j
the previous day at eleven a.m. He said that he had at that time just i
decided to visit her the next day at the hour of three p.m., and was j |
endeavouring to impress the fact of his intention upon her mind, so that ) (
if possible she might be disengaged when he called. j!
On another morning, she feeling unwell was lying down in her room, j I
up one flight from the apartment devoted to seances, when the door j i
opened, and she heard a voice which said, “ Good morning.” She j I
looked up, and beheld her mysterious visitor of a former occasion, who 11
remarked, “I want you to give me twelve o’clock to-day.” She sent jj
for her book, and, on its arrival, found that she could not sit for him j
before one o’clock. She therefore marked that hour—the date of said j
writing being about eleven a.m. The gentleman arrived on time, and j
upon her inquiring of him as to the facts of the case, informed her that
at eleven in the morning he was seated in the cars on his way from
Salem to Boston; that his original desire was to see the medium at
twelve o’clock p.m., but he remembered taking out his watch at the
time specified, and feeling a strong impression that he should not be ;
able to visit her before one p.m. This gentleman, who was not in the 'i
least medial, as far as he was aware, but rather of a solid and material
cast of mind, appeared seven times to her in this strange manner, and j / j
never failed to keep the appointments by his corporeal presence which j1 j
were made by his inner self. j I j
On Sunday next, at 6.30 p.m., Mr. J, J. Morse will deliver a trance j
address in the Albion Hall, Glasgow; subject, “ Christianity : Does
Spiritualism supersede or supplement it ? ” On the following evening i
Mr. Morse will deliver a trance address in the Spiritualists’ Hall, 164,
Trongate, Glasgow; subject, “ The Bealities of the Spirit Life.” To j
commence at eight p.m. Corn Exchange, Kirkcaldy, Thursday,
February 14th. 1
A SOCIETY WITHOUT A DOGMA.
BY H. P. BLAVATSKY.
Times have greatly changed since the winter of 1875-6,
when the establishment of the Theosophical Society caused
the grand army of American Spiritualists to wave banners,
clang steel, and set up a great shouting. How well we all
remember the putting forth of <c Danger Signals,” the
oracular warnings and denunciations of numberless mediums !
How fresh in memory the threats of “ angel-friends ” to Dr.
Gardiner, of Boston, that they would kill Colonel Olcott if
he dared call them a Elementaries ” in the lectures he was
about delivering ! The worst of the storm has passed. The
hail of imprecations no longer batters around our devoted
heads; it is but raining now, and we can almost see the
rainbow of promised peace spanning the sky.
Beyond doubt, much of this subsidence of the disturbed
Elements is due to our armed neutrality. But still, I judge
that the gradual spread of a desire to learn something more
as to the cause of the phenomena must be taken into account.
And yet the time has not quite come when the lion
(Spiritualism) and the lamb (Theosophy) are ready to lie
down together—unless the lamb is willing to lie inside the
lion. While we held our tongues we were asked to speak ;
and when we spoke—or rather our President spoke—the hue
and cry was raised once more. Though the pop-gun fusillade
and the dropping shots of musketry have mostly ceased, the
defiles of your Spiritual Balkans are defended by your
heaviest Krupp guns. If the fire were directed only against
Colonel Olcott there wouldbe no occasion for me to bring up the
reserves. But fragments from both of the bombs which
your able gunner and our mutual friend, aM.A., Oxon,” has
exploded, in his two letters of January 4th and 11th, have
given me contusions—under the velvet paw of his rhetoric I
have felt the scratch of challenge !
At the very beginning of what must be a long struggle, it
is imperatively demanded that the Theosophical position shall
be unequivocally defined. In the last of the above two com¬
munications, it is stated that Colonel Olcott transmits “ the
teaching of the learned author of Isis Unveiled, the master
key to all 'problems (?).” Who has ever claimed that the book
was that, or anything like it ? Hot the author, certainly.
The title ? A misnomer for which the publisher is un-
premeditatedly responsible; and, if I am not mistaken,
“ M.A., Oxon,” knows it. My title was the Veil of Isis,
and that head-line runs through the entire first volume.
Hot until that volume was stereotyped did any one recollect
that a book of the same name was before the public. Then*
as a derniere ressource, the publisher selected the present
title.
H If he (Olcott) be not the rose, at any rate he has lived
near it,” says your learned correspondent. Had I seen this
sentence apart from the context, I would never have ima¬
gined that the unattractive old party, superficially known as
H. P. Blavatsky, was designated under this poetical Persian
simile. If he had compared me to a bramble-bush, I might
have complimented him upon his artistic realism, fj Colonel
Olcott,” he says, “of himself would command attention;
he commands it still more on account of the store of know¬
ledge to which he has had access.” True, he has had such
access, but by no means is it confined to my humble self.
Though I may have taught him a few of the things that I
had learned in other countries (and corroborated the theory
in every case by practical illustration), yet a far abler teacher
than I could not in three brief years have given him more
than the alphabet of what there is to learn before a man can
become wise in spiritual and psycho-physiological things.
The very limitations of modern languages prevent any rapid
communication of ideas about Eastern philosophy. I defy
the great Max Muller himself to translate Kapila’s Sutras
so as to give their real meaning. We have seen what the
best European authorities can do with the Hindu meta¬
physics ; and what a mess they have made of it, to be sure !
The Colonel corresponds directly with Hindu scholars, and
has from them a good deal more than he can get from so
clumsy a preceptor as myself.
Our friend, “ M.A., Oxon,” says that Colonel Olcott
tl comes forward to enlighten us ”—than which scarce any¬
thing could be more inaccurate. He neither comes forward
nor pretends to enlighten any one. The public wanted to
Feb. 8, 1878.
THE SFlUlTtlAlIST.
63
know the views of the Theosophists, and our president ||f
attempted to give, as succinctly as possible in the limits of |||
a single article, some little glimpse of so much of the truth j | j
as he had learned. That the result would not be wholly |||
satisfactory was inevitable. Volumes would not suffice to
answer all the questions naturally presenting themselves to m
an inquiring mind ; a library of quartos would barely oblite- j J
rate the prejudices of those who ride at the anchor of |||
centuries of metaphysical and theological misconceptions— | j j
perhaps even errors. But, though our president is not !)j
guilty of the conceit of pretending to “ enlighten ” Spiritu- ! j j
alists, I think he has certainly thrown out some hints worthy J
of the thoughtful consideration of the unprejudiced. j 5
I am sorry that “ M.A., Oxon,” is not content with mere j |
suggestions. Nothing but the whole naked truth will I \
satisfy him. We must a square” our theories with his j j
facts, we must lay our theory down u on exact lines of de- j
monstration.” We are asked, “Where are the seers? ||
what are their records ? and (far more important), how do jj)
they verify them to us ?” I answer, the seers are where j |
“Schools of the Prophets” are still extant, and they have ||
their records with them. Though Spiritualists are not able j
to go in search of them, yet the philosophy they teach !
commends itself to logic, and its principles are mathemati- !
cally demonstrable. - If this be not so, let it be shown. j
But, in their turn, Theosophists may ask, and do ask, j
Where are the proofs that the medial phenomena are ex- j \
clusively attributable to the agency of departed “ spirits ?” | j
Who are the “ Seers” among mediums blessed with an in- j
fallible lucidity ? What “ tests” are given that admit of no |
alternative explanation ? Though Swedenborg was one of |
the greatest of seers, and churches are erected in his name, j
yet except to his adherents what proof is there that the I
“ spirits” objective to his vision—including Paul—pro- | j
menading in hats were anything but the creatures of his |
imagination ? Are the spiritual potentialities of the living
man so well comprehended that mediums can tell when
their own agency ceases, and that of outside influences
begins ? No, but for all answer to our suggestions that the
subject is opened to debate, “ M.A., Oxon,” shudderingly
charges us with attempting to upset what he designates as
“ a cardinal dogma of our faith”—i.e., the faith of the
Spiritualists.
Dogma? Faith? These are the right and left pillars of
every soul-crushing theology. Theosophists have no |
dogmas, exact no blind faith. Theosophists are ever ready j
to abandon every idea that is proved erroneous upon strictly |
logical deductions; let Spiritualists do the same. Dogmas |
are the toys that amuse and can satisfy but unreasoning j
children. They are the offspring of human speculation and j
prejudiced fancy. In the eye of true philosophy it seems |
an insult to common sense that we should break loose from j |
the idols and dogmas of either Christian or heathen exoteric j I
faith to catch up those of a church of Spiritualism. Spirit- I !
ualism must either be a true philosophy, amenable to the m
tests of the recognised criterion of logic, or be set up in its I j
niche beside the broken idols of hundreds of antecedent ! j
Christian sects. Realising as they do the boundlessness of | j
the absolute truth, Theosophists repudiate all claim to in- j j
fallibility. The most cherished preconceptions, the most j j
“ pious hope,” the strongest “ master passion,” they sweep | j
aside like dust from their path, when their error is pointed j j
out. Their highest hope is to approximate the truth; that j j
they have succeeded in going a few steps beyond the Spirit- | i
ualists, they think proved in their conviction that they know j |
nothing in comparison with what is to be learned ; in their j j
sacrifice of every pet theory and prompting of emotionalism I j
at the shrine of Fact; and in their absolute and unqualified j j
repudiation of everything that smacks of “ dogma.” j |
With great rhetorical elaboration “ M.A., Oxon,” paints j |
the result of the supersedure of Spiritualistic by Theosophic | I
ideas. In brief, he shows Spiritualism a lifeless corpse— |||
“a body from which the soul has been wrenched, and for j j
which most men will care nothing.” We submit that the | j
reverse is true. Spiritualists wrench the soul from true j j 1
Spiritualism by their degradation of spirit. Of the infinite j j
they make the finite; of the divine subjective they make j j
the human and limited objective. Are Theosophists mate- j !
rialists? Do not their hearts warm with the same “pure ™
and holy love” for their “loved ones” as those of Spirit¬
ualists ? Have not many of us sought long years “ through
the gate of mediumship to have access to the world of
spirit”—and vainly sought? The comfort and assurance
modern Spiritualism could not give us we found in Theoso¬
phy. As a result we believe far more firmly than many
Spiritualists—for our belief is based on knowledge—in the
communion of our beloved ones with us; but not as mate¬
rialised spirits with beating hearts and sweating brows.
Holding such views as we do as to logic and fact, you
perceive that when a Spiritualist pronounces to us the words
dogma and facts, debate is impossible, for there is no common
ground upon which we can meet. We decline to break our
heads against shadows. If fact and logic were given the
consideration they should have, there would be no more
temples in this world for exoteric worship, whether Christian
or heathen, and the method of the Theosophists would be
welcomed as the only one insuring action and progress—a
progress that cannot be arrested, since each advance shows
yet greater advances to be made.
As to our producing our “ Seers ” and “ their records ”—
one word. In The Spiritualist, of January 11th, I find Dr.
Peebles Saying that in due time he “ will publish such facts
about the Dravida Brahmins, as I am (he is) permitted. I
say permitted, because some of these occurred under the
promise and seal of secresy.” If ever the casual wayfarer is
put under an obligation of secresy, before he is shown some
of the less important psycho-physiological phenomena, is it
not barely possible that the Brotherhood to which some
Theosophists belong, has also doctrines, records, and
phenomena, that cannot be revealed to the profane and the
indifferent, without any imputation lying against their reality
and authoritativeness ? This, at least, I believe, “ M.A.,
Oxon,” knows. As we do not offensively obtrude ourselves
upon an unwilling public, but only answer under compulsion,
we can hardly be denounced as contumacious if we produce
to a promiscuous public, neither our “ Seers ” nor “ their
records.” When Mahomet is ready to go to the mountain it
will be found standing in its place.
And that no one that makes this search may suppose
that we Theosophists send him to a place where there are no
pitfalls for the unwary, I quote from the famous Commentary
on the Bhagavad-gitd of our brother Hurrychund Chintamon,
the unqualified admission that, “ In Hindustan, as in Eng¬
land, there are doctrines for the learned and dogmas for the
unlearned; strong meat for men, and milk for babes; facts
for the few, and fictions for the many; realities for the wise,
and romances for the simple; esoteric truth for the philo¬
sopher, and exoteric fable for the fool.” Like the philosophy
taught by this author in the work in question, the object of
the Theosophical Society “is the cleansing of Spiritual
truth.”
New York, Jan. 20tli, 1877.
The Triumph of Love; a Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets,
and Verse. By Ella Dietz. London: E. W. Allen.
1878.
On each occasion when we have had the pleasure of
hearing Miss Ella Dietz read or recite—and a real pleasure
that has always been—we have felt that this gifted lady’s
mission was a higher one than even that of ably interpret¬
ing the thoughts of others; and, therefore, the receipt of
this poem occasioned no surprise, although we had heard
no announcement of its arrival, nor did it come heralded
with the usual flourish of literary trumpets. We felt sure
that it would be no common work; and our highest antici¬
pations are realised, now the book itself is familiar to us.
Immediately after a first perusal, we found ourselves
repeating Bailey’s pertinent remarks in Festus:—
Many make books, few poems, which, may do
Well for their gains; but they do naught for truth
Nor man, true bard’s main aim. Perish the books,
But the creations live.
Now, this poem is essentially a creation. It is intensely
subjective’; but are not all great poems more or less so—or,
at all events, are not poems great do they not take
64
SPIRI^tTALiSl',
Feb. 8, 1878.
hold upon us, in proportion as they reveal the inner self of
the poet, or (in this case) the poetess ?
That such subjectivity is designed, and designed for the
highest purpose, Miss Dietz tells us in her prologue. She
says:—
If I unveil the workings of that heart
It is, 0 brothers, that your eyes may see
How sin doth bring us every woe and smart,
Until ’tis conquer’d by love’s unity ;
And, fight once fought, the crown’s for ever won,
For what God doeth cannot be undone!
In the first instalment of the poem, called u Retrospec¬
tion,” we have the only approach to direct narrative. Here
is its climax :—
Some years of patient bearing of the load,
Tuning my nature to another’s will,
Speaking soft words, smiling beneath the goad,
Wondering to see my good revert to ill.
Hiding my sorrow with a conscious pride,
Striving with gentleness to help, to guide;
The flower of duty grew where love would not;
I watered with my tears the lonely spot.
And thou wert in the world, and gave no sign,
But through the darkness my soul called to thine.
Let none fear that here we tread the dangerous ground of
the $ Elective Affinities.” The high ideal of love is shadowed
forth in the two last lines of the “ Sursum Oorda ” :—
’Till we reflect God’s glory here,
We cannot pass to His bright sphere.
That is, in one word, the tone of the whole poem. Sun¬
shine and shadow alternate curiously ; the lengthened sweet¬
ness is long drawn out; song and sonnet, narrative and
rhapsody are curiously interlaced; but, on the whole, we may
say, as Charlotte Bronte said of Balzac, that the book leaves
a pleasant taste upon the mental palate. In this phrase the
mysticism of the poem culminates. Here, for instance, is a
passage above the hidden meaning, and the poetic power of
the authoress seems equally exemplified :—
CHARITY.
I feel that I would draw all souls on earth,
To th’ universal love, the mother’s breast,
The fount of life that gives us all new birth,
The bosom on which all alike may rest;
The Comforter, the reconciling Dove,
That broods for ever o’er the soul of man,
And draws us upward spirally : above
Mysteriously working inner plan.
That is the love which seems beyond all law,
The solvent that transmutes all things to good;
Jerusalem the free the prophets saw
The Mother-God that none have understood \
The mystery of godliness revealed,
Which from the earliest ages has been sealed.
Or, again:—
O never speak of love to me,
Unless thy heart can feel,
That in the face of Deity,
Thou would’st that love reveal:
For God is love, and His bright law
Should find our hearts without one flaw.
Perhaps the highest testimony that could possibly be
given to the holiness of the poem is afforded in the
circumstance that a clergyman of the Church of England,
who is not wont to quote words at random in the pulpit,
and whose congregation is one of the largest in London,
selected some words from The Triumph of Love to conclude
a sermon on Christ’s sketch of His mission, as given by St.
Luke in the description of his sermon in the Nazarine
synagogue. The words - of the poem are, in fact, little
more than a paraphrase of Holy Writ at this point:—
My spirit travaileth to give new birth
To light: to lift and let the oppressed go free;
Draw all their sins and sorrow unto me,
And suffer once for all; to give them mirth
For tears; to feed the hungry hearts; for dearth
Plenty and riches, faith and charity.
The book must be read more than once to master its
meaning ; but those who have been privileged to make one
perusal will need no persuasion to induce a second.
Maurice Davies.
A copy of The Spiritualist has just been posted to every physician in
London whose name is in the Post Office Directory.
Mi THE INTELLECTUAL STATUS OF SPIRITUALISM.
jil BY J. T. MARKLEY, AUTHOR OP “ STRAY THOUGHTS ON MANY THEMES,” ETC., ETC.
| p In press circles it is now a subject of frequent remark that
rjj the old enthusiasm of casual Spiritualistic investigators has
II j visibly declined, and that the n elect” only are now en rapport
III with the mediums. As a comparative outsider, I rejoice at this
| (I fact. Being fairly interpreted, this narrowing of experi-
i j ments and issues simply means that phenomenal psychology
| j has outgrown the vulgar and the sensational, and, instead
| | of being a blood-heat, dangerous excitement, Spiritualism is
| | now consolidating itself as a thoughtful, intellectual, and
| | moral attraction. Not so long ago, it was the evening sport
j of the unlettered crowd, the welcome disturber of aristocratic
j ennui; or, worse still, the monetary toy of market-place
| fakirs on the look-out for a loaf. Keen press criticism—
| often ignorant, and not seldom brutal—indirectly helped to
| | purify, perhaps, the most alluring of all moral studies; and
I | the subject is now chiefly left in the hands of a more select and
| ! competent band of earnest investigators. If the spirits now
|j| come to the s<^mc<?-room, they must be on their good be-
| | haviour, for those who “watch and wait” for them are
j I persons of high character, good intentions, and front-rank
|| attainments: who sit coolly, cautiously, and can—from a
| | moral standpoint—say with Wesley:—
) I “ Fearless, their violence I dare :
j They cannot harm, for God is there.”
j Strange to remark, no important personage connected with
j this wonderful, perplexing, and not always satisfactory peep
! into soul-land, has seen fit to turn away from the most
j publicly unpopular, but the most privately fascinating, of
j all modern beliefs. Compared with Spiritualism, what
|| Church, sect, or collective body, has drawn to itself—within
j I a period of twenty years—such an array of literary talent, or
j I so many commanding and distinguished individual reputa-
| I tions ? No one knows better than Dr. Carpenter that this
j “great epidemic delusion” has won the intelligent esteem
I of scores, in England and on the Continent, of highly-gifted
| authors, editors, clergymen, and savants of world-wide autho-
| rity and fame. This fact, to say the least, gives Spiritualism
| an intellectual status, even if it does not absolutely prove
! the phenomenal claims for which it contends. We are
| j asked to accept the supernatural elements of New Testament
i | Christianity upon the Oriental testimony of a few not over-
| ! learned Galilean fishermen. Why, therefore, should we treat
j j so lightly the Spiritualistic evidence of such a galaxy of
| | master-minds, calmly engaged, with nineteenth-century criti-
| | cal intelligence, in the pursuits of professional callings ?
This reference to Scripture is no infidel sneer, for I love
j j and respect all that is true, beautiful, and holy in the
| | Romish as well as in the Protestant Churches. That is why
| I am the more surprised to find impassioned opposition to
I | Spiritualistic inquiry, from many good people, to whom the
I I private seance room should be a scientific witness to Biblical
| j revelation, and an eloquent pulpit reference to the life immortal.
| ! A moment’s reflection must show that when a belief, how-
j | ever novel and startling, attracts to itself not a few of the
j j conspicuous votaries of art, science, literature, and religion,
| | its social and moral pretensions alone remove it from the
jj| suspicions of denominational jugglery, whilst the large
II number of intellectual reputations—many of the highest
| | order—in England and abroad, give important weight to a
| | subject, too hastily dealt with, but which concerns every
| | human being in creation. Unfortunately, this investigation
| | cannot rise to the vulgar level of the popular vote. A black
| | experience teaches that it must be kept within the cautious
l| confines of the blite of intellectual society. Otherwise, as a
| | phase of experimental philosophy, it will soon get abused
I I and be made, as in America, to stink in the nostrils of all
| j refined people. To avoid those scandals which have alienated
| | its most influential friends in the United States, Spiritualism
| | should, I maintain, be as much as possible confined to the
III professional classes, and the higher strata of intellectual
j j society. Let the intelligent propagandist bring its claims
| | chiefly before thoughtful, non-dogmatic scientists, editors,
||| authors, the clergy, and miscellaneous men of genius.
I | Common-place people—I write with due respect—will not
| | dare to question the rhetorical announcements of pulpit
I) advocacy in the matter of a future life,until they gain mental
Feb. S, 1873.
The spiritualist.
65
independence through the slow process of education. It is m
the cute, dare-devil thinkers among the literati, the schools i |
of philosophy, and the nonchalant loungers of intellectual | i
society, to whom Spiritualism will he at once a puzzle and a I j
source of moral consolation. The sway of this subject over jj
many of the best minds, in Continental Europe especially, it
favours the possibility of fraternal union among the learned j j
upon themes religious and ghostly. The passion and j
pictorial outbranchings of art; the profound musings of Ij
reverent science; the apocalypse of which poetry is the j
golden voice, and the churchal ceremonial whose loudest | !
echo is an aisle whisper, and whose enchantment is less in |
doctrine than in deeds, may each find in seance unfold- j
ings the bond and beauty of spirituelle communion, new |
ideal, love, hope, and a fruitful view of the heavenly states. j
Peterborough.     j j
THEOSOPHICAL IDEAS.
BY COLONEL HENRY S. OLCOTT, PRESIDENT OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY OF i
NEW YORK. [ j i
I can only infer from Mr. Harrison’s giving placQ to what j
has been written (and well written) in criticism of my article j
on a The Views of the Theosophists,” that the discussion j
meets his approval. I will, therefore, again ask a hearing. j
I joyfully cross lances with “ M.A., Oxon,” for long acquaint- j
ance teaches me that though I be vanquished in the tilt, I j j
shall have chivalrous treatment at my victor’s hands.
I. begin with his paper in The Spiritualist, of January j
11th. “ How,” he asks me, “ can Occultism and Spiritualism j
be regarded as * natural allies ? [ I should have thought j
that Occultism, according to Olcott, was the deadly foe of j
Spiritualism as interpreted by popular teachers. Indeed, I j
should have thought that the mission of Occultism was to !
strike at the root of the central theory of Spiritualism, and j
to discourage its practice altogether.” Occultism is the natural j
ally of Spiritualism against the common enemy, Materialism, j
because they both teach that man survives physical death, j
and that this is a demonstrable fact. j |
But Occultism is the more potent antagonist of the j j
common enemy in that it teaches pure Spiritualism, the j j
quintessence of popular Spiritualism. Occultists have so j j
great a veneration for Spiritual philosophy as to regard as of j j
secondary importance, when not positively dangerous, the | I
psycho-physiological phenomena of mediumship. Both j j
Theosophists and Spiritualists are searching after spiritual | j
truth; but, while the former aim to get the whole and | j
highest truth, irrespective of individual prepossessions and | |
prejudices, the latter start out with a dogma, and show a
tendency to erect a theology upon the basis of blind faith, j j
There have been efforts to formulate a Spiritualist creed, j j
organise churches, both with and without Christian features, j j
and to refuse sceptics the privilege of testing mediums, j j
And, if the criticisms of “ M.A., Oxon,” and other orthodox j
Spiritualists upon my article of December 7th mean any- |
thing, they mean that, in introducing the Eastern notions of j j
Elementaries and Elementals under European names, we jj
Theosophists are laying profane hands upon the sacred dogma j j
that the medial phenomena are attributable only to the j j
(i spirits” of our deceased friends. Thus, it is seen that up j j
to a certain point we are allies, beyond that, antagonists, j j
What there is good in Spiritualism we would preserve, what j j
bad, eradicate. But far be it from us to force our notions j j
upon Spiritualists. We have been silent until silence would j j
be construed as weakness. If we utter any truth, it will find j j
hearers, if only error, that will show itself in due time. We j j
seek no converts ; those who wish to know our views must j j
come to us, we shall not go to them. W e are forced into j j
print by the discussion and misrepresentation of our principles. I j
When I said thatu we accept the doctrine of the immortality j i
of the human spirit,” I did mean the immor- j j
tality. By the human spirit, I meant just what the term j j
implies—that portion of the divine spirit which overshadows j j
or rather illuminates the individual, which completes the j
human trine. When I say that immortality—the immortal j
continuation of the personal entity—is potential, I convey j
the idea that it rests with each of us whether we shall be |
individually immortal, or, by the gradual severing of the j
bond between spirit (vou?) and soul become j j
obliterated. My friend Oxon may be startled with the state- 1
ment that many men lose their souls “ even before
bodily death; ” but it is not new, nor, to me, unphiloso-
phical. He has read Blavatsky’s Isis Unveiled, and praises
it. If he will consult what the learned author says in
many places throughout both volumes, he will find the sub¬
ject ably and exhaustively treated, with ample references to
authorities. He will find (Vol. I., p. 307 seqh) in a report
of a recent discourse of the Rev. Chauncey Giles, one of the
lights of Swedenborgianism, that the doctrine of soulless
men is a dogma of the New Church. “These creatures,” says
the preacher, “ with all their graces, rich attire, and bril¬
liant accomplishments, are dead in the eyes of the Lord
and the angels, and when measured by the only true and
immutable standard, have no more genuine life than skele¬
tons whose flesh has turned to dust.” Especially I commend
to him the author’s clear language (Vol. II., p. 369) in
describing the gradual absorption of the soul (^v^v) by the
grossly materialistic or sensual mind: “ Like the Vampire
of the Servian tale, the brain feels and lives and grows in
strength at the expense of the spiritual parent. Then the
already half-unconscious soul, now fully intoxicated by the
fumes of earthly life, becomes senseless beyond hope of
redemption. ... It ignores all that cannot be demon¬
strated by either its organs of action or sensation, . * . it
dies at last completely. It is annihilated. Such a cata¬
strophe may often happen long years before the final separa¬
tion of the ^-principle from the body. . . . Grim death
frees but a soulless corpse ; at best an idiot. Unable either
to soar higher or awaken from lethargy, it is soon dissolved
in the elements of the terrestrial atmosphere.”
My friend Oxon defines the trine of man to consist of “ a
physical body, a spiritual body, and a particle of the Divine
Mind, indwelling, which most call soul, and some spirit.”
Our disagreement is at the point I have italicised. We say
that this particle of the Supreme Essence overshadows or
illuminates, but does not enter into and dwell within man
except in those rare instances when a Buddha, or a Jesus,
appears on earth. Such men are complete trinities.
He asks me to define the nature of conscience, and says:
“ Is it pretended that a man who has lost his relations with
his spirit has no standard of right and wrong ?” No, it is
not so pretended. Soul death in the living man does not
imply that the unfortunate may not be possessed of far more
discernment of the relations of earthly affairs than many not
so bereft. They may be very meteors of intellect, brilliant
in repartee, radiant in accomplishments, arbiters of fashion
and of taste. But with death comes to them night—the
extinguishment of all that made up sensible existence. The
soul-wreck that is bowi into the world of spirit—if anything
at all remain to be born—is spiritually an idiot, as Madame
Blavatsky says, for its whole capabilities for spiritual per¬
ception have been absorbed by the vampire, physical brain.
My friend labours to comprehend the distinction between
the adept’s exercise of will-power and the medium’s astral
spirit’s unconscious, or conscious, agency in the production
of phenomena. There is the greatest difference between the
two, and therein lies the danger to the medium. The adept,
by a whole life’s training, perfects his control of the will¬
power. Having learnt the great secret of discerning spirits
—recommended by Paul, and illustrated by Jesus, and all
other Biblical thaumaturgists—the adept’s astral spirit
works with, through, and in perfect accord with either pure
disembodied spirits or his own immortal spirit — his
AvyoecBr)?' But mediums, lacking the “ discernment of
spirits,” allow themselves to be worked by multifarious
spirits, angels, or spooks—they know not which—as the
case may be. When the medium’s astral spirit produces
phenomena, it is unconsciously to himself, it is influenced,
guided, and compelled by other “ spirits,” by foreign wills.
He, the automaton; they, the hidden motors. “ How,” asks
“ M.A., Oxon.,” “how are we to know whether it be the
medium’s soul, an elementary, or an elemental?” You
cannot, except through the study of the occult sciences.
Hence the peril that the medium runs in giving his body as
a rendezvous for any astral “ tramp” to occupy if he find it
open and unguarded. We Theosophists raise the note of
warning; let him that hath ears, hear—him that hath eyes,
see.
New York, January 22, 1878
THIS SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 8, 1878.
66
THE FORMATION OF MATERIALISED SPIRITS.
BY A. J. CRANSTOUN.
The following are notes of a stance held at my house,
23, Oathcart-road, South Kensington, on 22nd of January,
1878\
Owing to my state of health, which prevented me leaving
the house, the members of our circle kindly consented to
meet at my residence.
The circle consisted of five persons in all: a lady, Mrs.
Cranstoun, Mr. Colley, Dr. Monck, and myself. We dined
together at six o’clock, and about eight we commenced the
seance. It was held in our drawing-room, which consists of
two parts, separated by a folding door; one half of this
door was opened, and over it was hung a black calico cur¬
tain, in order to make a cabinet of the back portion of the
room. The drawing-room is on the second floor, and there
is one window in the cabinet room, looking down into a
small garden, at a very considerable depth below; there is
also a door leading from this part of the room into the
lobby.
It was altogether impossible that any accomplices or ghost-
personators could have entered the house without the know¬
ledge of ourselves and of our servants ; this, however, did
not prevent Mr. Colley adopting the usual precautions neces¬
sary to make it a test seance.
We sat round a large oval table, one side of which was
about four feet from the door and curtain. The cabinet
room contains very little furniture: a small sofa and two
small cabinets, too small to curtain even a child, and, I
may add, for the information of the scientific-sceptical, that
the chimney was so small that nothing larger than an infant
could have come down it. The seance room was lit by gas,
and a fire was burning, which all the time afforded a sub¬
dued light.
Before beginning the stance, we thought it better, the
circle being so small, to add to it one of our servants, a
Tyrolean girl. We then intended putting our pet dog out
of the room, as she is very watchful and suspicious of
strangers, barking, and even sometimes biting, but Dr.
Monck, controlled by Samuel Wheeler, as is alleged, told us
most emphatically to let the dog remain. We then lowered
the gas, and the circle and Dr. Monck seated themselves
round the table and set the musical box going. We sat in
this way for more than half an hour, without anything
occurring, which was rather tiresome, and Dr. Monck, not
being in good health, became a little impatient, and several
times asked Samuel to tell us at once whether he could do
anything or not, as, if not, it would be better to break up
the stance. Samuel shortly afterwards declared, through
Dr. Monck, that the female element at the seance was too
weak, and that we should add to the circle another of our
servants, also a Tyrolean girl. We did so, and sat again
for about another half-hour without anything occurring;
after which the manifestations began.
I may here explain, in order to avoid repetitions, that
during all the manifestations I am about to describe, Dr.
Monck never for one moment left our sight, or the room in
which we were sitting. He stood either in front of the
curtain or walked about the room, but never went into the
cabinet, and was all the time, with the exception of a very
few minutes, hereafter mentioned, in his normal condition.
The first manifestation was a white, vapoury cloud
appearing on the floor in front of Dr. Monck, out of which
in a minute or so was developed a female form—a girl clad
in white. When we greeted her as Alice (who had often
previously manifested herself), she nodded her head in
assent, and, at Dr. Monck’s request, clapped her hands.
Dr. Monck then left her, and walked round the circle, plac¬
ing his hands on the shoulder of each person one after
the other, Alice each time clapping her hands. She did not
speak, nor did she move from beside the curtain where she
had first appeared, nor did she appear so large or so strongly
materialised as I had seen her on former occasions. She
remained some minutes, after which she appeared to sink
into the floor beside Dr. Monck.
Immediately after this Dr. Monck was controlled apparently
by her, for he spoke with a girl’s voice.
The next manifestation was that of a man of perhaps
smaller stature than Dr. Monck, clothed in a white robe and
j head-dress. Immediately on his appearance, Dr. Monck
| passed into his normal condition, and looking at the form
! with evident surprise, greeted him in the most friendly way.
j “ What! are you here ? ” (meaning his old friend Samuel
| Wheeler). The voice of this form was the same voice as that
,! in which Dr. Monck speaks when he is controlled by Samuel.
This form walked quite naturally round the room, he leaned
! down to me, and spoke in a low tone, saying, “ I cannot
j - speak much, the power is weak.” I could not see his
| features very distinctly, but he took my hand in his and
j made me feel his forehead, nose, hair, and eyebrows; the
j face did not seem to me to be living flesh, but hard and cold,
i This form did not stay very long, disappearing, as it seemed
| to me, partly in the floor, and partly into Dr. Monck’s
| left side.
The next appearance was a cloud at Dr. Monck’s left side,
11 out of which rapidly was evolved the majestic well-known
figure of The Mahedi. Dr. Monck walked away before he
| had finished growing up to his full height. This mysterious
being then immediately walked boldly about the room,
occupying himself while he did so in arranging his splendid
white robe, which hung from his shoulders in the most
graceful manner, reminding me of a picture of some Arab
tribe, whose dress was quite similar to his. He wore a
high kind of turban, adorned with what appeared to be sprays
of jewels. In return to the greetings from each of us, he
made the most dignified salaams, in the Oriental style.
Indeed, his gait, gestures, and motions, had that indescribable
| grace and dignity peculiar to the older civilised Orientals,
j and which the inherent vulgarity of modern Europeans can
! never approach. He was much taller than Dr. Monck. He
walked first to a cabinet table at the wall, and examined
carefully all the objects on it; I was sitting with my back to
this table, and he brought me in his hand from it, and laid
before me on the table, in a very marked manner, a copy of
Tfie Medium, which he had found lying there, containing a
representation of some new kind of lamp. What his object
in this was, I do not know, unless it was a hint to procure
such a lamp instead of our gas, which indeed is very incon¬
venient for stances.
He then continued his journey round the room, examining
the objects on another table, and from thence went to the
chimney-piece and looked at the articles on it. He then went
I round the circle, coming quite close to any one who wished
| to see him more distinctly. He put his face quite close to
I mine, during which Dr. Monck raised the gas for a few
] seconds, as he also did for others, so that the Mahedi might
I be well observed. His face is of a completely Oriental type,
| dark complexion, dark eyes, and black beard ; he does not
I present the slightest resemblance to Dr. Monck. The features
I were flexible, and like flesh; indeed, I think they were flesh,
| and the eyes were alive and shone with intelligence. He
| then placed one of his feet on the table, and allowed any one
| to examine it and touch it; the foot and leg were quite like
j those of a living man, and were a little cold, and there was
| downy hair on the leg. His hands and arms are rather lank,
| but muscular, and of a swarthy colour. Two of the circle
I felt his pulse, which was normal, but rather weak, while at
i the same time Dr. Monck’s heart was beating most violently,
even in an alarming manner. Then the Mahedi, at Dr.
Monck’s request notified by signs, as he evidently does not
understand English, lifted my chair and myself with the
greatest ease. Indeed, on other occasions we had ample
I proofs, as so well recorded by M. de Yeh, of his more than
| human muscular strength. He then sat down at the
| table and wrote his name, once or twice on paper,
| in English characters; presumably in this being controlled
| by Samuel. After this a new and most striking phenomenon
| occurred. The Mahedi became controlled by another intel-
! ligence, who made him speak English. He walked straight
| to me, clasped my hand in his, pressing it warmingly and
| lovingly, and approached his mouth to my ear, and whispered
| these words :—“ My dearest friend, I am with you always.”
i But I did not recognise the voice as the voice of my departed
i friend. He then went to Mrs. Cranstoun, and knelt beside
I her, clasping her hand, and gave her a message purporting
| to come from our departed friend : then, taking a book from
| the table, he lay down on the floor, opened the book with
' one hand, with the other pressing his heart, and gradually
T?£b. 8, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
67
sunk back as if dying. This was evidently the representa¬
tion of a death-scene; in many respects it was strikingly,
solemnly, and affectingly true.
He then got up, walked over to where Dr. Monck was
standing near the curtain, and gradually appeared to dis¬
solve into cloud or vapour, and was absorbed into Dr. Monck’s
left side, during which process Dr. Monck gave every symp¬
tom of very great pain and exhaustion.
How this large and powerful man, clothed in flesh, with
his flowing robes, could in so short a time be thus dissolved
into a mist, and be absorbed into Dr. Monck’s body, is a
mystery to me—one of those “ things in heaven and earth
which are not dreamt of in my philosophy.”
The death-scene is for me the most important matter;
whether it affords a proof of the presence and identity of my
deceased friend, or whether it was produced by thought-reading,
is a question upxm which I reserve my opinion until further
evidence upon this point be given. I have every reason to
hope, from the heretofore progressive character of our seances,
that such further evidence will yet be afforded,, and I have
the more faith in this, as I have already obtained through
Dr. Monck on one occasion—I may say almost accidentally—
a proof which is almost convincing. Unfortunately, per¬
haps, for myself, I am exceedingly sceptical, and of an un¬
usually suspicious temperament.
One word about our dog. During the considerable period
of time when the Mahedi was present with us, she was lying
in the lap of our servant wide awake, and in a position from
which she must have seen the Mahedi walking about the
room, yet she never barked, or showed tbe least uneasiness.
That she was mesmerised or controlled to quietness by some
unseen power, I have no doubt, for had she been in her
natural state she would have tried what the spirit’s flesh
and blood were like.
I merely give a statement of the facts of this seance,
without theorising. Theory to account for them I have none;
nor do I think that the time has yet come when any theory
wide enough to cover all the facts even of these materialisa¬
tions is possible; much less a theory to cover all the classes
of complicated facts which pass under the name of u Spirit¬
ualism.” I merely record facts as a help to a more accurate
classification of the phenomena, which is so much needed.
The editor of The Spiritualist remarked in a late number,
rather in a tone of blame, that our seances were held under
conditions of “ stringent privacy;” this is an error; certainly
not “ stringent,” for on more than one occasion we have
admitted persons not members to the stances, and in every
instance with more 'or less injurious effects, particularly to
the health and strength of the medium. As to privacy, we
are persuaded that valuable results can only be obtained by
a closed circle, the members of which are actuated by mutual
esteem and respect for each other, and for the medium, and
all united together by as many ties of sympathy and habits,
even to those of diet and aspirations, as possible. So far from
such an experiment being blamable, it seems to me to be
the reverse, and our carrying out our views does not hinder
other persons forming circles upon whatever principles they
may deem best to obtain either. Knowledge of the truth
we have progressively arrived at.
At the close of the seance Dr. Monck’s condition caused
us all great anxiety; he was in a most profuse perspiration,
which even saturated his clothes, and he was very much
exhausted. He spent the night and the next day in my
house, continuing all that time to suffer from the effects of
these wondrous manifestations.
23, Cathcart-road, S.W.
NEW MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA.
Day by day the evidence of remarkable manifestations occurring in the
presence of Dr. Monck is gathering great strength, for, as recorded in
these pages by a cool eye-witness, while Dr. Monck has been fully
visible at one part of a room in Mr. Cranstoun’s house, a full-sized
living and breathing materialised form has been walking about at
another. Owing to patient research, extending over many years, it has
been proved that such materialisations take place; but hitherto the
medium has almost invariably been in the darkness of a cabinet at the
time, or dimly visibly on rare occasions to a solitary favoured indi¬
vidual. Never have both the full forms and their living features been
clearly visible to all the sitters at once for a prolonged time, as we
understand to have been the case at Mr. Cranstoun’s house. On with¬
drawing attention from first impressions, and from the beards and
dresses of the living forms so produced, we have hitherto invariably
j found a likeness to the medium when observation has been concentrated
upon the lines of the eyes and noses of the forms in a sufficient light.
] In his next, we hope that a careful observer, like Mr. Cranstoun, will
go more into detail about the features,, because if in the lines of the
eyes and nose “The Mahedi’’ does not resemble his medium,
the manifestation does not fit in with the hundreds seen by us which
| have preceded it, and is something new in kind as well as in degree. If,
■ however, the resemblance is there, the fact means that Dr. Monck’s
strong mediumship has been the first to produce an old-established
manifestation under the eyesight of a full circle of sitters, in a good
I light—that a living form, much resembling himself in the features,
| developes in his presence, as well as other forms, unlike himself but
| devoid of living flexible faces. A new circle, not versed by experience
II in antecedent manifestations, does not know on what points to keep a
| look-out without some few suggestions.
11 With Miss K. Cook forms develops on and arise from the bare carpet,
11 in the presence of several persons, while her hands are held ; but these
11 forms have not yet presented living features to the gaze of the observers.
! I But during the other class of manifestation, when Lillie Gordon, who
|{ resembles the medium, has been well in view of all the circle, the
I features of the medium have not been clearly under the observation of
i all the sitters at the same time.
I THE SOUL REVELATIONS.
BY PEAKY CHAND MITTRA.
The Katha Upanishad says: u The fathers too shalt thou
behold, the heroes too who in battle died, the saints and
sages glorified, the pious, bounteous, and kings of old.”
Our present communication with the spirits is through the
mind ; the spirits by their will-force appear in their natural
bodies, and different draperies, on man’s nervous system, but
they are not seen in reality. It is one thing to see through
the mind, another thing to (see .through the soul. Till
the sensuous organs cease to be impressive, and until we do
not live on the mind, we cannot know the revelations of the
soul—the unimpassionable, immaterial principle in us, living
not on matter but on God.
The soul is naturally pent up by the brain or mind, but
when its bondage is loosed it manifests its supremacy in
dreams, somnambulism, and clairvoyance. With the view
to effect this object, the Aryas used to drink somlata. Sir
Humphrey Davy, after inhaling nitrous oxide, was changed
into a different state. After recovery he said : “ Nothing
exists but thoughts ; the universe is composed of impres¬
sions, ideas, pleasures, and pains.” Till we are in a spiritual
state we can have no pure cognition. The brain by itself
is no power ; all its high powers are derived from the soul,
and such portions as are undeveloped constitute our animal
nature. Particular training calls forth particular powers,
but the training which aims at the extinction of our nervous
force, and the consequent evolution of the psychic principle,
is our best education, as it raises us above the earth, the
earthly thoughts and feelings, and brings us in communion
with the Soul of Souls, and the spiritual world, of which He
is the perpetual sun. Marlborough said : “ This little body
! trembles at what the Great Soul is about to perform.”
| Antonius said ; u A soul free from the tumults of passion is
I an impregnable fortress, in which a man may take refuge,
! and defy the powers on earth.” The soul-states are pro-
| gressive. The first state is tranquillity unshaken by earthly
| thoughts and feelings—an “ impregnable fortress” against
| all mundane impressions, however powerfully transmitted
| to our brain even by spirits. The second state is utter
| freedom from what is concrete, to have no thoughts as to
| form, but to feed on essences. This is the state in which
we see the spirit-land, and the spirits in reality, and the
| soul from the light within has no difficulty in knowing them.
| The mind, however elevated, is for the earth. The soul is
! not for the earth, but for God and His world of essences.
| All the empirical knowledge which we acquire here is, after
I all, shadowy compared with the real and eternal knowledge
| which we obtain from God, through our soul.
Calcutta, January 11, 1878.
The War.—At the present time, not a few persons are anxious to
I involve England in war; among them are classes who thrive upon in¬
creased national taxation, also contractors on the look-out for profits,
military men tired of an idle life, and various others, who, through
certain newspapers, and by divers means, are stirring up an angry
public feeling. War, especially when it is not purely defensive, is a
great crime, and killing men is murder. It is to be hoped that
everything possible will be done by Spiritualists, from the public plat¬
form and in private life, to prevent England being dragged into the
I fray, and to remove from power any Government which may involve
the nation in war.
63
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 8, 18 i 8.
fomi).
AN AUTUMNAL EVENING. '
Despoiled of early charms she’s well-nigh sped,
Our summer of her former loves bereft,
And yet we scarce can think her nearly dead
With such adornment for her parting left,
Such glowing beauty with her failing breath—
The tale hath seeming more of life than death.
Long stems of wildling rose and thorn embraced
In common sympathy, entwine the way
O’er showrer-sprinkled blades in trellis laced,
Stealing from every slanting beam some ray,
Till, dazzled with the sight, we almost deem
A spirit touch hath conjured forth the scene.
Tall in her ancient pride the swarthy pine
Seemeth to frown o’er former rivals now ;
Old yellow oaks and beeches strong, to shine
With more than summer beauty ’neath her brow,
Though canopied ’neath purple wrought with gold,
Like a stern Eastern monarch to behold.
Yon weeping birch low shedding raindrops clear,
Might seem to mimic woe, till eve’s last beam
Shall make the woodland’s all-illumined gear
The image of. some far remembered dream
Of childhood’s painting—fairy gardens bright
Begemmed with every ray of heaven’s light.
Thus when life’s summertime is fairly gone,
And little spared of former gladsome days,
I’d leave a memory to every one,
Gleaming at least with some poor varied rays—
Rays though so far removed from summer’s light,
To make my fading as this autumn bright.
R. A. Cox.
Cmesponuence.
Great freedom is given to correspondents,who sometimes express opinions diametrically'opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.]
MADAME BLAYATSKX ON THE VIEWS OF THE THEOSOPHISTS.
Sm,—Permit an humble Theosophist to appear for the first time in
your columns, to say a few words in defence of our beliefs. I see in
your issue of December 21st ultimo, one of your correspondents, Mr. J.
Croucher, makes the following very bold assertions—“ Had the Theo-
sophists thoroughly comprehended the nature of the soul and spirit, and
its relation to the body, they would have known- that if the soul once
left the body it could not return. The spirit can leave, but if the soul
once leaves, it leaves for ever.” This is so ambiguous that, unless he
uses the term “ soul ” to designate only the vital principle, I can only
suppose that he falls into the common error of calling the astral body,
spirit, and the immortal essence, “soul.” We, Theosophists, as Col.
Olcott has told you, do vice versa.
Besides the unwarranted imputation to us of ignorance, Mr. Croucher
has an idea (peculiar to himself) that the problem which has heretofore
taxed the powers of the metaphysicians in all ages has been solved in
our own. It is hardly to be supposed that Theosophists or any others
“ thoroughly ” comprehend the nature of the soul and spirit, and their
relation to the body. Such an achievement is for Omniscience; and
we Theosophists, treading the path worn by the footsteps of the old
sages in the moving sands of exoteric philosophy, can only hope to
approximate the absolute truth. It is really more than doubtful
whether Mr. Croucher can do better, even though an “ inspirational
medium,” and experienced “through constant sittings with one of the
best trance mediums ” in your country. I may well leave to time and
Spiritual philosophy to entirely vindicate us in the far hereafter. When
any (Edipus of this or the next century shall have solved this eternal
enigma of the Sphinx—man, every modern dogma, not excepting some
pets of the Spiritualists, will be swept away, as the Theban monster,
according to the legend, leaped from his promontory into the sea, and
was seen no more.
As early as February 18th, 1876, your learned correspondent, “ M.A.,
Oxon,” took occasion, in an article entitled “ Soul and Spirit,” to point
out the frequent confusion of the terms by other writers. As things are
no better now, I will take the opportunity to show how sorely
Mr. Croucher, and many other Spiritualists of whom he may be taken as
the spokesman, misapprehend Colonel Olcott’s meaning, and the views of
the New York Theosophists. Colonel Olcott neither affirmed nor dreamed
of implying that the immortal spirit leaves the body to produce
the medial displays. And yet Mr. Croucher evidently thinks he did,
for the word “ spirit ” to him mean's the inner astral man or double.
Here is what Colonel Olcott did say, double commas and all:—
“ 2. That mediumistic physical phenomena are not produced by
pure spirits, but by * souls ’ embodied or disembodied, and usually with
the help of elementals.”
Any intelligent reader must perceive that, in placing the word “souls ”
in quotation marks, the writer indicated that he was using it in a sense
not his own. As a Theosopbist, he would more properly and philo¬
sophically have said for himself “ astral spirits,” or l< astral-men,” or
doubles. Hence, the criticism is wholly without even a foundation of
plausibility. I wonder that a man could be found who, on so frail a
basis, would have attempted so sweeping a denunciation. As it is, our
President only propounded the trine of man like the ancient and oriental
philosophers and their worthy imitator Paul, who held that the physical
corporeity, the flesh and blood, was permeated and so kept alive by the
psuche, the soul or astral body. This doctrine, that man is trine—spirit,
i
■1
| or nous, soul, and body—was taught by the apostle of the Gentiles more
broadly and clearly than it has been by any of his Christian successors
(see 1 Thess. v. 23). But having evidently forgotten or neglected to
“ thoroughly ” study the transcendental opinions of the ancient philo¬
sophers and the Christian apostle upon the subject, Mr. Croucher views
the soul—psuche as spirit—nous, and vice versA.
The Buddhists, who separate the three entities in man (though view¬
ing them as one when on the path to Nirvana) yet divide the soul into
several parts, and have names for each of these and their functions.
Thus confusion is unknown among them. The old Greeks did likewise,
holding that psuche was bios, or physical life, and it was thumos, or
passional nature, the animals being accorded but the lower faculty of
the soul—instinct. The soul or psuche, is itself a combination, consensus
or unity of the bios, or physical vitality, the epithumia or concupiscible
nature, and the phran, mens, or mind. Perhaps the animus ought to
be included. It is constituted of ethereal substance, which pervades the
whole universe, and is derived wholly from the soul of the world—
anima mundi, or the Buddhist—Svabhavat—which is not spirit; though
intangible and impalpable, it is yet by comparison with spirit or pure
abstraction—objective matter. By its complex nature, the soul may
descend and ally itself so closely to the corporeal nature as to exclude
a higher life from exerting any moral influence upon it. On the other
hand, it can so closely attach to the nous or spirit, as to share its
potency, in which case its vehicle, physical man, will appear as a God even
during his terrestrial life. Unless such union of soul and spirit does
occur, either during this life or after physical death, the individual man
is not immortal as an entity. The psuche is sooner or later disintegrated.
Though the man may have gained “ the whole world,” he,has lost his
“ soul.” Paul, when teaching the anastosis, or continuation of indi¬
vidual spiritual life after death, set forth that there was a physical body
which was raised in incorruptible substance. The spiritual body is
most assuredly not one of the bodies, or visible or tangible larvae, which
form in circle-rooms, and are so improperly .termed “ materialised spirits.”
When once the metanoia, the full developing of spiritual life, has lifted
the spiritual body out of the psychical (the disembodied, corruptible
astral man, what Colonel Olcott calls soul), it becomes, in strict ratio
with its progress, more and more an abstraction for the corporeal senses.
It can influence, inspire, and even communicate with men subjectively;
it can make itself felt, and even, in those rare instances, when the clair¬
voyant is perfectly pure and perfectly lucid, seen by the inner eye (which
is the eye of the purified psuche—soul). But how can it ever manifest
objectively ?
It will be seen, then, that to apply the term “spirit” to the ma¬
terialised eidola of your “form-manifestations,” is grossly improper,
and something ought to be done to change the practice, since scholars
have begun to discuss the subject. At best, when not what the Greeks
tQrmeA phantasma, they are but phasma, or apparitions.
In scholars, speculators, and especially in our modern savants, the
psychical principle is more or less pervaded by the corporeal, and “ the
things of the spirit are foolishness and impossible to be known ” (1 Cor.
ii. 14). Plato was then right, in his way, in despising land-measuring,
geometry, and arithmetic, for all these overlooked all high ideas. Plutarch
taught that at death Proserpine separated the body and the soul entirely,
after which the latter became a free and independent demon (daimon).
Afterward, the good underwent a second dissolution: Demeter divided
psuche from the nous or pneuma. The former was dissolved after a
time into ethereal particles—hence the inevitable dissolution and sub¬
sequent annihilation of the man who at death is purely psychical; the
latter—the nous ascended to its higher Divine power and became gradu¬
ally a pure Divine spirit. Kapila, in common with all Eastern
philosophers, despised the purely psychical nature. It is this agglomera¬
tion of the grosser particles of the soul, the mesmeric exhalations of
human nature imbued with all its terrestrial desires and propensities,
its vices, imperfections, and weakness, forming the astral body—
which can become objective under certain circumstances—which the
Buddhists call skanda (the groups), and Colonel Olcott has for con¬
venience termed the soul. The Buddhists and Brahmanists teach that
the man’s individuality is not secured until he has passed through
and become disembarrassed of the last of these groups, the final
vestige of earthly taint. Hence their doctrine of the metempsychosis,
so ridiculed and so utterly misunderstood by our greatest .Orientalists.
Even the physicists teach us that the particles composing physical
man are by evolution reworked by nature into every variety of in¬
ferior physical form. Why, then, are the Buddhists unphilosophical
or even unscientific, in affirming that the semi-material skandas of the
astral man (his very ego, up to the point of final purification) are ap¬
propriated to the evolution of minor astral forms (which, of course,
enter into the purely physical bodies of animals) as fast as he throws
them off in his progress toward Nirvana f Therefore, we may correctly
say, that so long as the disembodied man is throwing off a single
particle of these skandas, a portion of him is being reincarnated in the
bodies of plants and animals. And if he, the disembodied astral man,
be so material that “ Demeter ” cannot find even one spark of the
pneuma to carry up to the “ divine power,” then the individual, so to
speak, is dissolved, piece by piece, into the crucible of evolution, or as
the Hindus allegorically illustrate it, he passes thousands of years in
the bodies of impure animals. Here we see how completely the ancient
Greek and Hindu philosophers, the modern Oriental schools, and the
Theosophists are ranged on one side, in perfect accord; and the bright
array of “inspirational mediums” and “ spirit guides” stand in perfect
discord on -the other. Though no two of the latter, unfortunately,
agree as to what is and what is not truth, yet they do agree with
unanimity to antagonise whatever of the teachings of the philosophers
we may repeat 1
Let it not be inferred, though, from all this, that I, or any other real
Theosophist, undervalue true Spiritual phenomena or philosophy, or
that we do not believe in the communication between pure mortals and
£eb. 8, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
69
pure spirits, any less than we do in communication between bad men
and bad spirits, or even of good men with bad spirits under bad. condi¬
tions. Occultism is the essence of Spiritualism, while modern or
popular Spiritualism I cannot better characterise than as adulterated,
unconscious magic. We go so far as to say that all the great and noble
characters, all the grand geniuses—the poets, painters, sculptors, musi¬
cians—all who have worked at any time for the realisation of their
highest ideal, irrespective of selfish ends—have been Spiritually
inspired. Not mediums, as many Spiritualists call them—passive tools
in the hands of controlling guides—but incarnate, illuminated souls,
working consciously in collaboration with the pure disembodied human
and new-embodied high planetary spirits, for the elevation and spirit¬
ualisation of mankind. We believe that everything in material life is
most intimately associated with Spiritual agencies. As regards
psychical phenomena and mediumship, we believe that it is only when
the passive medium has given place, or rather, grown into the conscious
mediator, that he can discern between spirits good and bad. And we
do believe, and know also, that while the incarnate man (though the
highest adept) cannot vie in potency with the pure disembodied spirits,
who, freed of all their skandas, have become subjective to the physical
senses, yet he can perfectly equal, and can far surpass in the way of
phenomena, mental or physical, the average “ spirit ” of modern
mediumship. Believing this, you will perceive that we are better
Spiritualists, in the true acceptation of the word, than so-called
Spiritualists, who, instead of, showing the reverence we do to true
spirits—gods—debase the name of spirit, by applying it to the impure,
or, at best, imperfect beings who produce the majority of the phenomena,
The two objections urged by Mr. Croucher against the claim of the
Theosophists, that a child is but a duality at birth, and “perhaps until
the sixth or seventh year,” and that some depraved persons are annihi¬
lated at some time after death, are (1) that mediums have described to
him his three children, “who passed away at the respective ages of
two, four, and six yearsand (2) that he has known persons who were
“ very depraved” on earth come back. “These statements,” he says,
“have been afterwards confirmed by glorious beings who come after,
and who have proved by their mastery of the laws which are governing
the universe, that they are worthy of being believed.” I am really happy
to learn that Mr. Croucher is competent to sit in judgment upon these
“ glorious beings,” and give them the palm over Kapila, Manu, Plato, i
and even Paul. It is worth something, after all, to bean “inspirational
medium.” We have no such “glorious beings” in the Theosophical j
Society to learn from; but it is evident that while Mr. Croucher sees and
judges things through his emotional nature, the philosophers whom we
study, took nothing from any glorious being that did not perfectly
accord with the universal harmony, justice, and equilibrium of the mani¬
fest plan of the universe. The Hermetic axiom, “ as below, so above,” I
is the only rule of evidence accepted by the Theosophists. Believing in
a spiritual and invisible universe, we cannot conceive of it in any other j
way than as completely dovetailing and corresponding with the material,
objective universe; for logic and observation alike teach us that the
latter is the outcome and visible manifestation of the former, and that |
the laws governing both are immutable.
In his letter of Dec. 7th, Colonel Olcott very appropriately !
illustrates his subject of potential immortality by citing the admitted
physical law of the survival of the fittest. The rule applies to the
greatest as to the smallest tilings—to the planet equally with the plant.
It applies to man. And the imperfectly developed man-child can no
more exist under the conditions prepared for the perfected types of its
species, than can an imperfect plant or animal. In infantile life, the
higher faculties are not developed, but, as every one knows, are only in
the germ or rudimentary. The babe is an animal, however “ angelic ”
he may, and naturally enough, ought to appear, to his parents. Be it
ever so beautifully modelled, the infant body is but the jewel-casket
preparing for the jewel. It is bestial, selfish, and, as a babe, nothing
more. Little of even the sovl—psuchi, can be perceived except as
vitality is concerned; hunger, terror, pain, and pleasure appear to be
the principal of its conceptions. A kitten is its superior in everything
but possibilities. The grey neurine of the brain is equally unformed.
After a time mental qualities begin to appear, but they relate chiefly to
external matters. The cultivation of the mind of the child by teachers
can only affect this part of the nature—what Paul calls natural or
physical—and James and Jude sensual or psychical. Hence the words
of Jude, “ psychical, not having the spirit,” and of Paul, “ The psychical
man receiveth not the things of the spirit, for to him they aae foolish¬
ness, the spiritual man discerneth.” It is only the man of full age, with
his faculties disciplined to discern good and evil, whom we can denomi¬
nate spiritual, poetic, intuitive. Children developed in such respects
would be precocious, abnormal—abortives.
Why, then, should a child who has never lived other than an animal
life ; who never discerned right from wrong; who never cared whether
he lived or died—since he could not understand either of life or death-
become individually immortal ? Man’s cycle is not complete until he
has passed through the earth-life. No one stage of probation and
experience can be skipped over. He must be a man before he can
become a spirit. A dead child is a failure of nature—he must live
again; and the same psuche re-enters the physical plane through
another birth. Such cases, together with those of congenital idiots,
are, as stated in Isis Unveiled^ the only instances of human re¬
incarnation. If every child-duality were to be immortal, why deny
alike individual immortality to the duality of the animal ? Those who
believe in the trinity of man know the babe to be but a duality—body
and soul; and the individuality which resides only in the psychical, is,
as we have seen proved by the philosophers, perishable. The com¬
pleted trinity only survives. Trinity^ I say—for at death the astral
form becomes the outward body, and inside a still finer one evolves,
which takes the place of the psuche on earth, and the whole is more or
less overshadowed by the nous. Space prevented Col. Olcott from
developing the doctrine more fully, or he would have added that not
even all of the elementaries (human) are annihilated. There is still a
chance for some. By a supreme struggle these may retain their third
and higher principle, and so, though slowly and painfully, yet ascend
sphere after sphere, casting off at each transition the previous heavier
garment, and clothing themselves in more radiant spiritual envelopes,
until, rid of every finite particle, the trinity merges into the final
Nirvana, and becomes a unity—a God.
A volume would scarce suffice to enumerate all the varieties of
elementaries and elementals; the former being so called by some
Kabalists (Henry Kunrath, for instance) to indicate their entanglement
in the terrestrial elements which hold them captive, and the latter
designated by that name to avoid confusion, and equally applying to
those which go to form the astral body of the infant, and to the
stationary nature-spirits proper. Eliphas Levi, however, indifferently
calls them all “elementary,” and “ souls.” I repeat again, it is but
the wholly psychical disembodied astral man, which ultimately disap¬
pears as an individual entity. A s to the component parts of his psuche,
they are as indestructible as the atoms of any other body composed of
matter.
That man must indeed be a true animal who has not, after death,
a spark of the divine ruach or nous left in him to allow him a chance
of self-salvation. Yet there are such lamentable exceptions; not
alone among the depraved, but also among those who, during life, by
stifling every idea of an after existence, have killed in themselves the
last desire to achieve immortality. It is the will of man, his all potent
will, that weaves his destiny, and if a man is determined in the notion
that death means annihilation, he will find it so. It is among our
commonest experiences that the determination of physical life or death
depends upon the will. Some people snatch themselves by force of
determination from the very jaws of death ; while others succumb to
insignificant maladies. What man does with his body he can do with
his disembodied ^swc/ie.
Nothing in this militates against the images of Mr. Croucher’s
children being seen in the astral light by the medium, either as
actually left by the children themselves, or, as imagined by the father
to look when grown. The impression in the latter case would be but
a,phasma, while in the former it is a phantasma, or the apparition of
the indestructible impress of what once really was.
In days of old the “mediators” of humanity were men like
Christna, Gautama Buddha, Jesus, Paul, Apollonius of Tyana,
Plotinus, Porphyry, and the like of them. They were adepts, philo¬
sophers. Men who, by struggling their whole lives in purity, study,
and self-sacrifice, through trials, privations, and self-discipline, attained
divine illumination and seemingly superhuman powers. They could
not only produce all the phen.omena seen in our times, but regarded it
as a sacred duty to cast out “ evil spirits ” or demons from the un¬
fortunates who were obsessed. In other words, to rid the medium of
their days of the “ elementaries.”
But in our time of improved psychology every hysterical sensitive
blooms into a seer, and behold! there are mediums by the thousand !
Without any previous study, self-denial, or the least limitation of
their physical nature, they assume, in the capacity of mouthpieces of
unidentified and unidentifiable intelligences, to outrival Socrates in
wisdom, Paul in eloquence, and Tertullian himself in fiery and
authoritative dogmatism. The Theosophists are the last to assume
infallibility for themselves, or recognise it in others; as they j udge
others, so they are willing to be judged.
In the name, then, of logic and common sense, before bandying
epithets, let us submit our differences to the arbitrament of reason.
Let us compare all things, and, putting aside emotionalism and pre¬
judice as unworthy of the logician and the experimentalist, hold fast
only to that which passes the ordeal of ultimate analysis.
H. P. Blavatsky,
New York, January 14, 1878.
SPACE AND TIME.
Sir,—I am glad to "see that my anticipations, expressed years ago,
that we should be indebted to a new generation of thinking men and
women for a fair and candid examination of the claims of Spiritualism, is
now being realised in your columns, and it is not, I assure you, an empty
compliment when I say that the journal which you conduct is in my
opinion a credit to the movement which it advocates. I do not, how¬
ever, take up my pen to enter the lists as a controversialist, for I find
my thoughts are far better expressed by others, but I should like to say
in passing that the theories of my friend Dr. Wyld, and his followers, do
not disturb my settled convictions that the intelligences—good, bad,
and indifferent—which come to us from the invisible world, proceed
from departed human beings of like habits and character, and this is
confirmed in my mind by the actions I have witnessed, and the nature
of the messages I have invariably received. On this point, by the way,
it would be interesting to know what proof the occultists give of any
intelligence such as we have been accustomed to call spiritual, being
derived from beings of another race, whom they assert are of a very
low order in creation, but who, to play the part assigned to them, must
be intimately acquainted with the ways and usages of modern society,
and with the languages of all nations.
My immediate object in writing this letter, is to take exception to a
passage in Mr. Charles Massey’s paper, “ Space and Time.” He says,
“I, for instance—I do not accept the story of Mrs. Guppy’s miscalled
flight from Holloway to Lamb’s-Conduit-street; it is not because I see
anything at all incredible in it, but because the evidence has failed in
this particular instance to satisfy me of the fact as proven, though I
think it very probably is true. No Spiritualist, of course, is absurd
enough to suppose that there was an actual flight through space of Mrs.
Guppy’s phenomenal body.”
70
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 8, 1878.
I, a Spiritualist, am absurd enough to confess that I do believe that
the material living body of Mrs. Guppy was transported from one point
to another in an instant of time, and I do not know any fact on record
which is better attested. (See Spiritualist oi June 15, 1871.) I per¬
haps do not clearly comprehend what Mr. Massey means, as his admis¬
sions and denials appear to me contradictory, and I should have hesi¬
tated to comment upon them had I not met with a similar statement in
that wonderful book Isis Unveiled, where Madame Blavatsky plainly
asserts that no living body can pass through stone walls, Yol. II., p. 589.
Her words are—“ Hence we discredit all stories of the aerial flight of
mediums in the body, for such would be miracle, and miracle we
repudiate. Inert matter may be in certain cases, and under certain
conditions, disintegrated, passed through walls and recombined, but
living animal organisms cannot.” I am obliged to tell this excellent
lady, who has herself performed a miracle in literature, that this is an
erroneous statement. I assert that in my own experience living
animals have been brought to me from a distance in compliance with an
unexpressed wish, and, therefore, unknown to the medium, through
brick walls, in an instant of time (see The Spiritualist, July 15,
1871), and Mrs. Guppy’s flight, which, from other circumstances, I
predicted would happen, is an absolute fact, to which thirteen witnesses
testify, and corroborate in the most complete manner.
Benjn, Coleman.
Upper Norwood, February 2nd, 1878.
more freedom for women.
Sir,—I loved some ten years ago a young and beautiful girl. Sbe
reciprocated my affection. Her family deceived her, and compelled
her to marry against her will. I love her, rightly or wrongly, with a
passion and devotion which I feel are bringing me to my grave. T have
not seen her or spoken to her but twice in this lapse of time, and I do
not know where she is. But I have seen her in the “ Night Watches ”
so constantly, that I believe my writing to you will be the means of my
finding her ; should it prove so, I will let you know. My heart says
“Yes; she will see this, and will see you.” I believe she can save
my life. Kindly insert this, and accept the thanks of an ardent
Spiritualist. “Cannon Ball.”
Feb. 1st, 1878.  
TO “INSPIRED EVANGELISTS OF NAUGHT.”
Sir,—I am a plain man, of limited capacity. Till lately, however, I,
in my egregious vanity, fancied that I knew, more or less, what Spirit¬
ualism was, and that I was a Spiritualist. But, sir, what with
occultism, which, with its elementals, robs me of my belief in the
humanity of the vast majority of the Spiritual agencies at work, without,
so far as I can see, any sufficient evidence to counterbalance that which
supported my belief; what with the medium’s-own-spirit-does-it-ism,
which, on an even slenderer basis of probability, not to say on a basis
of self-evident impossibility, 'seeks to do the same; what with meta¬
physics, which weave phantom ropes to tie into gordian knots; and
what with the various other isms and ics too numerous to mention and
too abstruse to explain, I am beginning to doubt, not only what Spirit-
ulism is, but whether there is, or ever was, or ought to be, any such
thing as Spiritualism, and am forcibly reminded of the lines in Rejected
Addresses—
Thinking is but an idle waste of thought,
And naught is everything, and everything is
Naught.
Junior U.S. Club, 4th February, 1878.
PUBLIC LECTURES.
Sir,—Will you kindly allow me to inform your readers that the
morning service hitherto conducted on Sunday, at 429, Oxford-street,
London, by Mr. Colville, will be continued, commencing at 11.30 a.m.;
that the form of prayer, used will be that of the Rev. Chas. Yoysey, in
his revised prayer-book; that short lectures will be given by advanced
thinkers, whose co-operation I earnestly invite for this purpose; that
the first service will take place on Sunday next; and that there will be
no collection, my intention being to rely on voluntary contributions here¬
after, provided the thing, prospers, and is deemed worthy of the same.
T. L. Henly.
THE HORARY QUESTION.
Sir,—The horoscopes for the times mentioned by Mr. Massey, in the
case of the sick child, are both of them very evil, that for the 12 th ult.
being especially threatening. Without troubling your readers with a
long catalogue of “ aspects,” let me say that from the figure for the first-
mentioned date (the 8th Dec.) I should think there was just a chance
of recovery, for though the Lord of the House of Sickness was stationed
in the house of death, yet the lord of the house of death was combust
with the sun, who is the Lord of the Ascendant, and is placed in the
fifth (house of children). The moon also is applying to a conjunction of
Venus.
The second figure, that drawn for the time of the visit, is a much more
malignant one, and shows the patient to be passing through a severe
crisis, which was almost at its worst at the hour stated. The moon had
just left the conjunction of Saturn, and is in close square of the sun
from the house of sickness. She then applies to the conjunction of
Mars. If the child survived 24 hours (when the conjunction of Mars
would have passed), I should say that recovery might be hoped for, and
I base this opinion on an examination not so much of these horoscopes
as upon figures erected for the moon’s crises, dating from the 12th ult.
In questions of life or death the figure is generally taken for the hour
of decumbiture, and the crises from this hour are most to be relied on.
Aldebaran.
Jan. 28, 1878, 5.30 p.m.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY IN THE DARK—MANIFESTATIONS WITH MME. BLAVATSKY.
Sir,—We have again had fine photographs of “Angela” and
“Alexandrine.” At the outset we requested that “Angela” should
show her hand in the picture, which had not been done in the recent
ones. The result was a fine success, with not only the hand (holding
the rose mentioned in my last), but a beautifully modelled arm bare to
the elbow.
We were told to bring next day some new flower, and not to mention
beforehand what kind of flower it should be. Two natural roses were
accordingly brought, the one much more full blown than the other. The
result was that both flowers appear in the photographic picture, the one
in her hair, th&other in her hand; the pose of the arm, and the length
of it exposed, being varied from the preceding photograph.
Three days ago the Countess de Bullet came to our seance (who had
not attended for a longtime). “John King” had said that when she
should come he meant to give her a “ surprise.” The surprise proved
to consist in this: he came forth with his light, and placed in her hand
two beautiful fresh roses. He then requested her to spread out her lap,
and there was poured into it a considerable quantity of the most delicate
and delicious bon-bons and cakes that the unrivalled confectionery of
Paris can furnish. He said that this was his “ new-year’s offering ”
to her. Five of us partook of them with high relish, and a quantity
remained over for her to carry home in a handkerchief. We had some
talk over this matter, in which I expressed the idea that he had taken
them probably from Sirandin’s, in the Rue de la Paix (the great shop
of Paris), and the flowers from some florists or hothouse. When he
came to write afterwards, as he usually does, through Firman’s hand,
he said; “I do not thank John O’Sullivan for making me out a robber.
I did not procure the things in the way he suggests.” I said aloud that
I had not meant that he had taken them dishonestly, and that I sup¬
posed he had fairly compensated for what he took, either in money or in
some other way. The next day, when he was again there to talk and be
talked to, I asked him about his “ spiritual bakery,” and how he had
produced those delicious things which we had all found to be so
thoroughly real. “ 1 reproduced them from the essences of the things,”
was his reply. Now this was a very curious and suggestive
statement to me who had witnessed some remarkable fact-pheno¬
mena at Madame Blavatsky’s (that great and wonderful woman,
whom all the world can now judge of from her book, which
I have not yet seen) last February. She had been toying with an
oriental chaplet, in a lacquer cup or bowl, the aromatic wooden beads
of which, strung together, were of about the size of a large marble, and
copiously carved all round. A gentleman present took the chaplet in
his hands, admired the beads, and asked if she would not give him one
of them: “ Oh, I hardly like to break it,” she observed. But she
took it presently, and resumed her playing with it in the lacquer bowl.
My eyes were fixed upon them, under the full blaze of a large lamp just
above her table. It soon became manifest that they were growing in
number under her fingers as she handled them, till the bowl became
nearly full. She presently lifted out of it the chaplet, leaving a con¬
siderable number of loose beads, from which she said he might take
what he wanted. I have ever since regretted that I had not the presence
of mind, or the venturesomeness, to ask for some for myself. I am
sure she would have given them freely, for she is all kindness, as well
as, apparently, a woman of all knowledge. My presumption about the
beads thus created under our eyes was that they were {i apportsf
brought in by spirits, in compliance with her wish or will. I believe
(though not quite certain) that her idea, and Olcott’s, is that these phe¬
nomena are produced in some way by a great brother “adept ”in Thibet
—the same one from whose old spinnet I was made to hear in the air
overhead (as ,1 have before mentioned, and as many of her friends had
done before) the faint, but clear tinkling music which I was told came,
borne on a current of “ astral fluid,” from Thibet; to which home of
her heart Madame Blavatsky said she was going back (never again to
leave it), after she should have completed her mission-task and business,
which was chiefly that of publishing her book.
Another case of the fabrication of material objects out of, apparently,
nothing. Coming in late one afternoon to her little parlour, where she
usually spent seventeen hours out of the twenty-four at her writing-
table, I found Colonel Olcott with her, occupied in correcting her
earlier proof-sheets. I had by this time become somewhat intimate
with her and Olcott, to both of whom I shall always retain a strong
attachment as well as profound respect. He told me how there had
taken place that afternoon one of those “ little incidents ” (as he calls
them) which were of constant occurrence there. There had been a
group of visitors, and an animated discussion on the comparative
civilisation of the ancient Orient and the modern West. The subject
came up of the tissues fabricated in the one and the other. Madame
Blavatsky is an enthusiast on the Orient side of this dispute. She sud¬
denly put her hand to her neck and drew forth from her ample bosom
(from beneath the old dressing-gown, which is the only garb in which I
have seen her), a handkerchief of silk crape, with a striped border, very
like what is called “ carton crape,” and asked whether occidental looms
produced anything superior to that. They assured me (and I have
ample warrant for believing them) that it had not been there before that
moment. It was in smooth fresh folds, and the conversation had arisen
accidentally. I admired it, recognised in time the peculiar sickly-
sweet and pungent odour which attends all those “ apports ” from far
Cathay (including the beads above mentioned), and observed the
peculiar signature on one edge of the handkerchief, which I had seen
on various objects, and which I was told was the name (in pre-sanskrit
characters) of a great brother “ adept ” in Thibet—to whom, by the
way, she says she is very far inferior. When we were afterwards sum¬
moned to their very simple repast (to which had been added a hospitable
bottle of wine for me, though they never touch it), she remarked that
she felt chilly, and asked Olcott for something to put round her neck—
“ Give me that handkerchief.” He gave it to her, out of the sheet of
Feb. 8, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST. 71
letter-paper in which he had carefully folded it in its smooth unruffled
condition. She at once made a careless twist of it and tied it round her
neck. When we returned from the dining room to her warmer snug¬
gery of a parlour, she took it off and threw it on the table by her side.
1 remarked, “You treat in very unceremonious fashion that beautiful
handkerchief which has been sent to you all the way from Thibet. Since
you can get them so easily, have you any objection to give that one to
me?”—“Oh, certainly not, if you would like to have it,” and she
tossed it over to me. I smoothed out its creases as well as I could,
again wrapped it in a sheet of paper, and put it in my breast pocket.
Later on, as I was taking my departure, and we were all on foot, she
said, “ Oh, just give me that handkerchief for a moment.” Of
course I obeyed. She turned her back to me for an instant or
two, and then, turning again to me, she held out two handkerchiefs,
one in each hand. “Take whichever you please; I thought that per¬
haps you might prefer this one (handing me the new one) since you
have seen it come.’’ Of course I did so, and after travelling about
fifteen miles by rail that night, I gave it to the lady best entitled to
receive a favour thus conferred upon me by another lady, which latter
lady, by the way, claims to be septuagenarian, though looking only about
forty. When I left America, a few days afterwards, it had not yet
melted away, nor wafted back to Thibet, on a “ current of astral fluid.”
I should add that the second handkerchief was a perfect fac-simile of the
first, down to every detail of the name in ancient oriental characters;
which, by the way, was evidently written or painted in some black pig¬
ment or ink, not stamped mechanically.
And now I come to the reason why I recall these reminiscences of
nearly a year ago, in connection with John King’s protest against having
stolen out of shops the above-mentioned flowers and confectionery, and
of his having, as he said, “ reproduced them from the essence of the
things.,' In the course of the evening with Madame Blavatsky (this
was before the reproduction of the second handkerchief), I had
referred to the anterior phenomenon of the beads of the chaplet,
and asked Madame Blavatsky whether they (the “ Adepts ” of
the Orient) claimed that they can make matter — create real,
palpable, ponderable objects—out of nothing. “ No,” she answered,
“ that is impossible. There must be a basis, a first object.
Then it can be reproduced.” Is not this (I would ask) something like
John King’s making his flowers and confectioneries “from the essence of
the things,” such as they already existed in material reality in the hot¬
houses or in Sirandin’s shop in the Rue de la Paix ? And does it not
suggest any glimmer of light upon the practical modus operandi through
which five loaves and two small fishes were once (by an extraordinary
Virgin-Born Messiah-Prophet of the Most High Supreme) made to
feed a mighty multitude who were an hungered ? Is there a power in
spirit under the control of great supernal authority, to concrete into
what we call Matter the spiritual “essence of things ” ? Or to gather
out of universal nature, the air, electricity in its diverse forms, ter¬
restrial and animal magnetism, human organisms, &c., the elements
for the concretion of what we call material objects? And to do it by
a flash of thought, by a wave of will ? Does this throw some light on
the phenomenon (now so familiar to us here, and to so many others
everywhere else) of the materialisation of spirits?
But paulo minova canamus. My particular business in this corre¬
spondence is to record and testify to plain, honest, simple facts—facts
patiently and keenly observed by three calm, cool, and critical minds.
I like to feel terra firma under foot. Let my friends and brother
Spiritualists over there in England fill splendid columns of your large
type with essays on their observations of psychic things in general,
viewed from balloon altitudes, to which I humbly decline to soar.
Let psychic eagles stretch pinions made of fine-writing quills, out of
sight towards the sun (beware of landing in the moon !). I am a more
humble terrestrial bird. They may call, or think, me a goose if they
like : the least flighty of birds. In other words, I am an old-fashioned
Spiritualist (what, are we already, some of us, “ old-fashioned ” ?). I
believe in the possibility, and in the fact, of our continued communi¬
cation with our loved and (not) lost. Nay, I do not merely “ believe ”
in that—I know it, if I know anything ; if I may be said {pace the
metaphysicians) to know that I have ten fingers and ten toes, and that
two and two make four.
I have had evidence of that great fundamental truth — evidence
demonstrative and conclusive — to the most critical, and the most
severely logical, mind. Therefore, I am sure that I too shall live
again; that my continued life will depend upon what I make this
one ; that “ death ” is only evolution, like that of the butterfly (the
psyche) from the caterpillar. And therefore, and therefore, and there¬
fore, and a great many divine therefores, hang, in an endless suc¬
cession, reaching from earth to heaven, upon that first inductively
established truth, which is indeed the pearl of great price, for the dear
sake of which alone I attend good stances, and write the record of
them to The Spiritualist, for the benefit of those readers who like
facts as well as I do, and as much as Goethe said he hated them.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, Jan. 27.  
DR. wyld’s paper.
Sir,—I notice a very queer printer’s mistake in a quotation from
our national poet in a letter in The Spiritualist of Feb. 1st. “ Arousing
which” is substituted for “a rousin’ whid.” This last word is the
Scotch for an untruth; and the passage means that clergymen have
been known sometimes to tell a great fib, and then to clench it with a
passage from Scripture. It is needless to say that any suggestion
attributing anything like a fib to Dr. Wyld is singularly inappropriate.
  Scotchman.
DR. SLADE IN ST. PETERSBURG.
Sir,—We left Berlin on the 23rd, at 11.15, and arrived here at half¬
past eight on the night of the 25th. At the railway station we were
| met by Mr. Aksakof, who accompanied us to this hotel, where he had
i secured rooms for us. The hotel is only a few doors from Nevsky
Prospect, and quite near also to M. Aksakof. Yesterday Dr. Slade
gave two sittings, with fair success. J. Simmons.
j Hotel de la Paix, St. Petersburg, Jan. 28th, 1878.
VOICE AND PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
I Sir,—I find that it is not generally known among Spiritualists that a
| seance is held by Mrs. Bassett, at 15, Southampton-row, London, every
| Wednesday evening. A few days ago there was a successful display
j of spirit power. A small party sat round a table in the dark with
joined hands, one of the party being Mr. Herne. “Peter’’was the
first invisible actor to make his presence known ; immediately upon the
extinction of the gas he lifted up a musical instrument from the table,
| and carried it round the room, touching its strings, and talking to us in
a loud voice. He was lively, active, and talkative, as he especially
j seems to be when coming through Herne.
Mrs. Bassett’s own control, “James Lombard,” seemed to think that
II Peter was taking up more than his share of the time, as he eventually
i! interposed in a loud and different toned voice, with the remark that he
I • had been waiting a long while to get a word in. Then these two spirits
II remained talking with us, interrupting one another, contradicting one
) j another, and speaking at the same time. Upon a question being asked
[| by one of us, they would occasionally both reply simultaneously,
11 and their answers were in accordance with their individual view
It of the subject. Supposing this talking to have been done by
[ j ventriloquism, which it certainly was not, it would be the best per-
\ | formance of the kind that has ever yet been witnessed. It does not
| detract from the interest of the curious experience of this oral conver-
I sation of spirits, that they should enunciate doctrines contrary to reason
(| and common sense. Lombard, for instance, asserted that it was better
) i in every way for a child to die in early infancy than to pass a lifetime on
(j earth. This must be an erroneous statement, for if material experience
| i can be dispensed with, the want of it being elsewhere supplied,
j where is the necessity for any of us to be painfully born into
| this unsatisfactory world at all ? I know it is often thought by
j j ignorant people, that when a child dies it is a blessed occurrence for
i that child to be spared the pains and troubles of earth-life; but a little
j | • better philosophy than that one would expect from a spirit, who must
II have had, one would think, opportunities of studying the philosophy
} of existence from his side of life. I do not remember anything else
j | said that any one could take exception to, for the information given
j j seemed likely to be correct. Peter exhibited the greatest indignation
| j at a remark made by a certain lady at the Association, with regard to
(| the want of veracity of spirits in general. He, seeming to feel that he
51 was personally included in the allegation, strongly objected to being
11 called a liar, for he knew, he said, that he was not one. After a while,
(! Peter continually saying he was going, although he remained, we had
11 a few serious words from a spirit called Mr. Robinson. This person,
(I whose voice is like the voice of an old man, with a clerical accent, is
j! quite capable of giving a discourse as long as any power is left. The
) | seance was an exceptionally good one, in consequence of the harmony
I of the circle, but the presence, I am told, of a few strangers, would not
j prevent somewhat similar manifestations taking place. The impression
| made upon me was that these three voices belonged to three distinct
11 individuals there present with us, although invisible. Mrs. Bassett
) I does not become entranced while the voices which come through her
j j mediumship are heard. The last words Peter said to me were, “ Don’t
(j let the antics of a poor comical clown like me cause you to disbelieve in
I God.” J. H. Gledstanes.
j BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
|] inquirers’ seances.
||| On Wednesday, the 30th of January, the usual weekly seance for
Hi inquirers was held at the Rooms of the National Association of Spirit-
Ill ualists, 38, Great Russell-street, London, with Mr. Eglinton as
j medium. There were eight sitters, and the greatest stranger was
11! invited to tie the hands of the medium behind his back, in such a way
j| | that he could not bring them to the front. This was effected with tape,
j 11 and also by sewing together the sleeves of the coat. Thus secured he
j j was seated in a chair within the cabinet, the curtains of which were
j | pinned in front of his waist, his legs remaining visible the whole time.
||! Immediately upon the gas being lowered, violent movements of the
| | curtain occurred, the “ fairy bells ” were handed into the cabinet, and
j| were taken and played vigorously, the voice of “Joey” being in full
||| force. A musical box placed across the medium’s knees was in good
iji light set going and stopped without visible contact, and was eventually
I i moved off by “Joey,” who also wrote in pencil in a book placed on
i j the medium’s knees, “‘The curfew tolls the knell of parting day.’
|j| Dedicated to Miss Kislingbury.” He also sang a song respecting a
! i “ little faded flower,” and a lady being permitted to enter the cabinet,
j i declared the voice was not that of the medium, who was deeply
| | entranced. A large white hand was several times protruded from the
! j cabinet, and, as the power declined, “Joey” desired that one of our
! i number should pass behind the curtains, immediately after a final
||| effort, which consisted in waving to and fro, visibly to all, the card-
i | i board tubes; the same lady as before entered, and found Mr. Eglinton’s
i i hands firmly set in their original position. After bidding “ Good
jjj night,” we turned up the gas, and found the medium’s hands more
111 securely and intricately fastened to the chair itself, as “Joey” had
|(| intimated.
I | The circle was very harmonious, and at one time “Joey” seemed
j i inclined to afford some higher manifestation, but upon reflection he
I j thought the minds of some of the sitters were scarcely prepared for
jjj anything more complex. Wm. Newton,
jj| Chairman of Seance Committee, in charge.
72
THE SPIRITUALIST. Feb. 8, 1878.
OCCULTISM. j
Some time ago the news reached England that a Theo- ||
sophical Society had been formed in New York, some of |)
whose members, by means of magical arts, could exercise jl
sway over spirits, human and sub-human. Our good friend, j(
Colonel Olcott, in his opening address as president of the j|
society, laid much stress bn the wonder-working powers of ||
a Mr. Felt, who by the exercise of occult knowledge would j|
teach the members how, in true old magical fashion, to raise I
elementary spirits by incantations and the burning of odo- |j
riferous compounds. Time rolled on, but silence reigned as j(
to the success of the efforts of Mr. Felt, who, indeed, seems I
to have dropped out of existence, so far as the Theosophical H
Society is concerned. Next came the news that the Theo- I
sophical Society was to be resolved into a secret organisation, \)
which step, moreover, precluded the obtaining of any in- j
formation as to the doings of Mr. Felt. More recently, I
without any appeal to the results of new and verifiable j
observations, Colonel Olcott favoured the readers of these j 1
pages with an interesting and elaborate series of specula- j
tions as to the nature of spirits, and their relation to the j
material world. j
Whether the members of the Theosophical Society in
America number more than fifty, whether they agree )
among themselves, and whether the ideas put forth by j
Colonel Olcott were formally endorsed by more than two of j
the members before publication, we do not know. But a |
coherent and well-thought-out system has been put forward, j
leaving, for the consideration of those who examine it, the j
vital question—“Is it true?” In the course of recent dis- j
cussions on the matter, expressions have been used to the j
effect that these Occultist ideas will cause “ divisions among j
Spiritualists,” “ the formation of two schools,” and soon. If
English Spiritualists are not so foolish; but while united on l j
the solid basis of proved facts, are quite content to good- j
temperedly discuss speculations of all kinds. So we request j
Colonel Olcott, now that he has given English readers the j
outline of the system he advocates, to produce his facts in j j j
support of a few of the more vital points thereof, and thus I) j
put inquirers in the way of verifying them for themselves. j
The scientific method of proving a new truth is to adduce j
an array of facts which can be verified, and afterwards to ) j
draw only those conclusions which the facts necessitate, f
The theological method is to launch a speculation first, and j | j
to leave its adherents either to find facts to fit it if they can, n
or to do without them altogether. After the large amount j
of talk which has taken place about Occultism, it is high f)
time that the facts were forthcoming.
Colonel Olcott, for instance, alleges that “ elementaries ” i j
exist and manifest at seances. He defines them to be j j
“ impure, disembodied, perishable human souls.” He has m
launched the assertion; but where is the evidence of the | |
perishability of any portion of each being so communicating ? j j
He offers none. By the positive method, he would be re- jjj
quired to give—say, a dozen indisputable and verifiable facts, ! j
which admit of no other conclusion but that the alleged j j j
perishability is unquestionable. Can we not have this point m
briefly cleared up by him first, and if no evidence exists to | |
demonstrate it at present, can he select any other cardinal j |
doctrine of Occultism which he is prepared to demonstrate j j
by facts, instead of to promulgate by assertions ?
Madame Blavatsky, in her interesting and valuable | I
writings, tells us much about adepts having power to leave j j
their own bodies, and to obtain information by the visits of j j
their spirits to distant persons in distant places. May we | |
ask whether her well-known Occultist friends in London now | I
go through the labour of writing long letters to her, or j j
whether time and trouble to all concerned are avoided, by | I
her “astral spirit” visiting them in London, and obtaining j j
the information face to face? If not, why not? And if j j
not, has her spirit ever, on any single occasion, obtained any j j
information in long and complete detail, from any friend of Kj
hers in London? If not, do adeptship and magical powers j !
“ work” outside the realm of words ? j j
Our Transatlantic friends have given to their privileged j j
readers some interesting speculations, the truth or error of jjj
which observers may in the future be on the alert to verify jjj
or cast aside; but in future there would be much economy ||{-
in their giving us their facts first and their conclusions
afterwards, instead of reversing the process, if indeed they
are able to complete a reversal.
Ox Monday next, the 11th inst., Dr. C. Carter Blake will read a
paper before the National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great
liussell-street, on “Stigmatisation.”
Next Thursday evening, at eight o’clock, Mr. Harrison will read a
paper, by invitation, before the Brixton Psychological Society, 6, Lough-
borough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Mr. Lacroix, the Canadian Spiritualist, who recently studied all the
aspects of the movement in London, has reached his home in Montreal,
and returns his thanks to those who assisted him in his researches here.
Dr. Slade and the Leipzig Professors.—A correspondent writes
us from Berlin under date of January 1st:—“I think I informed you
that Dr. Slade visited Leipzig in the latter part of November, and gave
sittings to some Professors belonging to the University, some of whom
expressed a desire to further pursue the investigation on our return
from St. Petersburg next spring. On learning that he had not gone to
Russia, as he had intended, it was proposed that he return to Leipzig,
and meet the Professors. Everything being arranged he went to
Leipzig again on the 10th of December, and remained one week, the
guest of Baron Hoffman. Professors Zollner, Weber, and Scheibner, I
think, are the three gentlemen to whom the Doctor devoted his time,
sitting each day at 11 a.m., and again at 8 p.m.; sittings lasted about
one hour each. Full and complete notes were taken of everything that
transpired. These cover so much that they decided to publish their
report in a book, illustrated with diagrams. The sittings were held in
a room furnished by themselves. They hope to have the book out in
February.”—fianner of Light.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—At a meeting of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism held recently the report of the Council
for the year ending 31st December, 1877, among other things, stated
that “the receipts amounted to £28 11s. 3d., and the expenditure,
£28 Is. 2d., leaving a balance in hand of 10s. Id. There were no out¬
standing liabilities on 31st December last. The amount of £38 17s. 3d.
has been added to stock account, made up of £12 8s. lid. for additions
to the library, £1 Is. for a reading-desk, and £25 7s. 4d. in respect of
sundry furniture and fittings, privately presented. During the past year
19 new members have been elected. Six resignations of membership
have been received and accepted with regret. The total number of
members on the books on 31st December last, as compared with the
corresponding period in 1876, is shown as under, viz.—3lst December,
1877, 12 life, 32 honorary, 36 ordinary: total, 80 members. 31st De¬
cember, 1876, 9 life, 29 honorary, 29 ordinary: total, 67 members.
Total incsease, 13, The thanks of the Association are due for many
valuable additions to the library received during the past year through
the generosity of the following donors, viz., the Rev. John Charles
Earle, B.A.; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. Thos. Grant; Mrs. Emma
Hardinge-Britten; Mr. F. A. Binney; Mr. J. J. Morse; Dr. George
Sexton; Dr. Wm. B. Carpenter, F.R.S., &c. ; Professor Adolphe
Didier; Mr. James Regan; Mr. W. J. Colville; Sir Charles Isham.
Bart.; Mr. Thomas Blyton; the Rt. Hon. Countess of Caithness; Mr.
Wm. Crookes, F.R.S., &c.; Mr. W. H. Harrison; Baron and Baroness
von Yay; Mrs. Edward Elgie Corner; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Miss
F. J. Theobald; Herr Christian Reimers; Mr. Edward Maitland ; Mr.
Edwin Dottridge; Miss Anna Blackwell; Miss Kislingbury; Rev.
Samuel Watson; and Mrs. Wm. Tebb. In consequence of the law pro¬
ceedings instituted against certain professional mediums, the Council
has found it advisable to adopt protective measures with a view to
prevent any action being taken prejudicial to the interests of the Asso¬
ciation. On 26th July last the Association’s place of meeting was
removed from 74, Navarino-road, to the new rooms, 53, Sigdon-road,
Hackney. The ordinary experimental seances on Thursday evenings
have been well attended, and the results have been on the whole of an
interesting nature; although, from the varying conditions incidental to
such promiscuous seances, the experiences have been mostly of an
elementary character; while the more conclusive evidences of spirit
action have been obtained only on rare occasions, and were due to the
presence of one or more developed mediums. The Council perceive
with marked satisfaction an increasing tendency on the part of members
and others to follow up a more systematic investigation in the privacy
of the home circle.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
P.—Not a line has ever been inserted in the literary portion of this journal
on payment. Some well-known periodicals openly announce through their
agents that they insert such paragraphs subject to the approval of the
editor, but the system is essentially corrupt, and a betrayal of the confidence
placed in a journal by the public.
J. 0.—The journal is so full that we have no room for such long dissertations.
T. H.—Mr. Allen is a very good publisher, at least we have found him so
during the many years he has published this journal for us in the City.
C. B.—From press of other matters, the carrying out of the idea mentioned in
our first article last week, of launching a brochure about certain evils in
society, has been abandoned for the present. Such a step would be most
righteous work on the part of anybody who executed it in an efficient and
spirited manner, and would tend to reduce unhappiness in thousands of
homes. Those who act wrongly in the direction indicated would be indig¬
nant- at the fire of public opinion being brought to bear; those who do not
act wrongly would be pleased at seeing the subject well ventilated. There
would be little neutrality.
• .—Some of your remarks are beyond the limits of common courtesy.
Everybody is liable to do unwise things under the influence of temper, and
you shiould retrace your steps.
Feb. 8, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
Researches in the phenomena of spirit¬
ualism, by William Crookes, F.R.9. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.Gt.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s'“ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE'; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U. S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,-.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 15s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion ; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and IScience; the Spirit, and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient inteUigence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some, other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the modiumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'.trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala,”: published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. Thp author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Bddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 5.60 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiraiu n-
ally through the mediumshio of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d. •
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s'. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. BourchierWrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS*, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . ,    •
Religions of the World (Leigh)--A well-written little book,
recommended by The SpinnuAUST Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ....
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ....
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 10
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Ansesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Oollyer, M.D. . .12
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
' Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . , 16
The Koran ;' commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale .  . . . 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
; d;
24 0
2 6
6 0
l| 0
18 0
12 6
15 6
7 6
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authok and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Hontgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions oe the Press.
“As a dispassionate seientifle man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination has been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not.
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the'
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb-'
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning, and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so.
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London. W.O.
YOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 8s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.” s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . ..76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . ..76
The Seer. ,,‘TItj • , . .76
The Reformer. „ IY. „ . . . .76
The Thinker. „ Y. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . ..76
H armonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence .. . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .86
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
COnjugaLLove; Truth v. Theology. . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . . .76
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 foi' Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6d., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
wTho state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will he
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts hound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
It
THE SPIKITUALIST,
Feb. <8, 1878,
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE¬
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
LORD BEAGONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people Is really the foundation
upon winch all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, eras a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
£
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.’’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“ Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
r'^NO’S FRUIT SALT.— A Lady writes: —
-d “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.’’
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
UNO’S FRUIT SALT,
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS EORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
ggreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.  
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent torm.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products)'keeps the blood pure, and is thus ot itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshlng and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
| the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
er less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please.—I am,
dear sir, ysurs respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. so, 1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno's Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Porw-PHARMACIE DE BERAL. l RUE DE
LA PAIN,
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
’Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Sbacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejato Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No'one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.,.. To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-hook, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller,
“An odd hut most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured."
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and tbe imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour,... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine,
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
& most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will he sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover. ... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in iis contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shaeabao was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
•‘A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the typo
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News..
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; fiill of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,’’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is hound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.” ,
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great RusseU-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also he had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in YariousWays—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—^Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State ot Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peouliar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IVDirect Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted-Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S »i ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress oi Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IXAction of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.. Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI;—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an impressible
State—-Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor hy Beveridge: & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Aye
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
