Hbgisieehd as a Newspaper.
aK■!) .0^ f $i d tt o r<o0 i d3. i:<. xsvd r>rC
#Ihst Mt| Spiritualism iw §rrat Iritaiu.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi,Via Della Maltonaia. ROME:
Signor Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE : 84, Russell-street.-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly and Co. NEW YORK:
51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “ Banner of Light ” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. SAN FRAN¬
CISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. xoxo, Seventh-street.
No., 352.—(Yol. XIV.—No. 21.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MAY 23, 1879. Published Weekly; Price TwopencO.
Contents
Theosophio Thaumaturgy  ;   241
Ideas about Spirits held by the Chinese of the Straits
Settlements .. ..     .. ;. .. .. .. 241
The Moral Teachings of Spiritualism ..   243
The Pall Mall Gazette on Clairvoyance ..  244
The Antiquity of Spiritualism  245
The Psychological Society of Great Britain . . .-. .. 245
A Test Manifestation .. ., *     246
Interesting Public Seances .,   .. 246
A Curious Phenomenon well Certified ' .. .. 246
Mesmeric Experiments      247
Practical Lessons in Spiritualism. By Louisa Andrews.. 247
An Extraordinary Mesmeric Seance .. .. .. . . . . 248
A Death-bed Vision   .. 249
A Letter to a Visitor 250
Religious Mania .. .. .. ... .. ..  250
Perpetual Directors ..      250
Healing Mediumship 251
Salem Witchcraft   251
Correspondence--The Cambridge University Psychological
Society, 251; Sunday Meetings, 261 j Letters from
“Outsiders”.. ..       251
Paragraphs—A Psychological Society in Sydney, 241; Inner
Consciousness, 242; Dr. Slade, 249 j Dr. Carter Blake 250
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER :
si Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics
of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated
Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries throughout
the Globe ; it also has an influential body of readers on the
Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading
and more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in
the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among
those who have published their names in connection with their
communications in its columns are Mr. C. P. Varley, C. E., F. R. S.;
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal
of Science ’’(who admits the reality of the phenomena, but has,
up to the present time, expressed no decided opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace. President of the Biological Sec¬
tion of the Biitish Association for t he Advancement of Science
(1876) ; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the
Right Hon. the Countess of Caithness ; His Imperial Highness
Nicholas of Russia (Duke of Leuchtenberg) ; Mr. H. G. Atkin¬
son, F.G.S. ; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen
(formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples); Baron
Dirckinok-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald Massey; Le Comte
de Bullet; the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly American
Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Parkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psycholo¬
gical Society of Great Britain ; Mr. Alexander Calder, Presi¬
dent of the British National Association of Spiritualists; the
Rev. J. Tyerman (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.);
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George
Wyld; Mrs, Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksa-
kof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order
of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay
(Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital ; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore ; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B,
(India); Mrs. Honey wood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr,
Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George Stock, B. A. (Oxon);
Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian
Reimers; Mr. William White (author of the “Life of Sweden¬
borg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D. ; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London Mr. 8. C. Hall, F.S-A.;
Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S. ; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M. ; Mr. C. Con¬
stant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; M'\ William Oxley:
Miss Ki-lingbury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris) ; Mrs. F. Showers ;
Mr. J. N. T. Mathese; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr.
W. Lindsay Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other
ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom,
10s. lOd.; in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The, Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, ,St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris : Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capuoines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig : 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence : Signor G. Parisi,
Via Della Maltonia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples : Biitish Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege : 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne : 96, Rnssel-street. Shanghai : Messrs. Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Bdston, U.S.: 9, Mentgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-Street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal
OffUe. Meinphis, U.S.: 225, Uhion-streaLSai^raneiseo s 319,
Keamey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Garden-street.
Washington t No. 1010, Seventh-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
OFFICE HOURS.
The Offices of the Association are open between the hours
of 2 p.m. and. 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except Sat¬
urday., when they are open between the hours of 2 p.m. and
6 p.m.  
CALENDAR FOR MAY.
Friday, 2nd, and each succeeding Friday.—^Experi¬
mental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 5th.—FobthightiiT Discussion Meeting at
8 p.m. “ Object Lessons in Spiritu¬
alism, and their Importance.” By
Mrs. Andrews.
Tuesday, \Zth.—Soirde Committee at 6 p.m.
,, ,, House and Offices Committee at 6.30
p.m.
,, ,, Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
,, ,, Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Monday, 19t7i.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at
8 p.m. “ Recent Researches in Spirit¬
ism.” By Desmond, G. Fitzgerald,
M. S. Tel.
Friday, 23rd.—Library Committee ut 5.30.
„ „ Seance Committee at 6 p.m.
Tuesday, 27th.—Annual Geneeal Meeting of Mem¬
bers at 6.30 p.m.
C. A. BURKE, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akebman Road, Beixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books
on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
RITISH MUSEUM LECTURES.—Dr.
Caetee Blake will LECTURE in the Galleries of Natural
History and Antiquities, on Tuesday, May 27; Thursday, May
29; Tuesday, June 3; and Thursday, June 5, from 11 to 1 o’clock.
Tickets 2s. 6d. each Lecture, or 7s. 6d. for the Course.
Address Dr. Cabteb Blake, 28, East Street, Queen’s Square,
W.C.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Ca/vendish Squct/re, London, W.
Pbesidbnt—Me. Seejeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro*
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent,
that move and direct the material mechanism of man. Com¬
munications as to alleged phenomena are invited by the
Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings with¬
out subscribing to or recognising any particular theory or
belief. .. . . J. -
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubneb & Co. London.
Cloth, small 8vo., price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use in the
divine economy for all varieties of men and women; and
that there is not any one, however perverse or insignificant,
who is not created for some function in universal humanity.
As to the question of everlasting punishment, Mr. White
maintains an original position. If asked whether, he believes
in the everlasting punishment of sinners,‘ he answers, Yesj but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he answers.
No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish which exist
as to the future life arise from the constant assumption that
the everlasting punishment of sin is identical with the ever¬
lasting existence of sinners. Sin or transgression has been,
is, and ever will be eternally punished; torment and misery
are everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing; and pre¬
cisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or
later, cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility of
everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
WILL HOLD
SUNDAY EVENING SERVICES
AT
STEINWAY HALL,
Lower Seymour-street, Portman-square, London, W.
ADMISSION FREE.
Those subscribing One Guinea are entitled to sofa stalls;
other subscribers of 10s. 6d. and 5s. are given numbered
stalls. Tickets date from April 1st to June 30th. To be
obtained from Mr. Fletcher, 4, Bloomsbury-place, W.O., and
Miss Leslie Younge, 32, Fairfax-read, N.W. Lecture at
7.30 p.m.
Price Is. Post free 13 stamps,
GPIRITUAL SANITY : A REPLY TO Dr.
O Forbes Winslow’s ’ ‘ Spiritualistic Madness,” and a
Brief Outline.of the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiri¬
tualism. By”S. E. Gay.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS ia offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the
city, by an English brother. The apartments can only ac¬
commodate four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3
per week each; or, for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two
occupy one room. Address, S.T., care of M. A. Mallett, 3,
Rue de la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be oh*
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal; East-street; Mr.
Elmer, St. James'- street; and Mr. Boughton, St,G6orge s-rd.
APHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions
of events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a
large hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lanca¬
shire quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wreck|, the
British armaments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by
which any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth
gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO in
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filafete.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
SYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly
Journal devoted to the investigation of the unexplained
phenomena of psyohio life. Edited by Alexandee Aksakoe,
and contributed to by several German and foreign men of
science. Price Is. monthly.—Leipsie: Oswald Mutze.
London : The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers
and the Colleotion of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 till 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with rail particulars on application,
FRANCIS RlVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 23, 1879
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Pkesiden't.
Alex. Oalder, Esq.. 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington,
S.W.
Viob-Pebsidexts.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 62, Warwiok-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-
buildings, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13,
Alexandra-road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park,
W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P.,‘ Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addisoombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S.. Vale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road,
Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 6, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 69, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Epo, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 84, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road, New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square,
W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lampart-hall, Northampton.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower street, W.C.
March, R. A., Heaton Villas, 71, Greenwood road, Daiston.
Miail, Rev. W., 71, Richmond road, Daiston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree terrace, Uttoxeter road.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish road, Blundel Sands, near
Liverpool.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett road, Daiston, E.
Pearson, 0., 16, Harpur street, Bloomsbury. W.C.
Pickersgill, W.C., 3, Blandford square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 47, Momington road, Regent’s park.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum Villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolf crescent, Maida vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Ann street, Cavendish
square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1,
Hereford square. West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, MissH., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Honobabt TBeasuber.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford square, South Kensington,
S.W.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G, H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobold, Esq.
Seobetabx.
Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honobaby ob Corresponding- Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburgh, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Balidje,
Capoussou, Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at
Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach,
Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gueldenstubb, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexander Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburgh.
The Baron von Dirchmck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Ham monton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey,
U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-
Mer.
Boboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.,Oude, Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 46, Drummond-street, Carlton,
Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg
University, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor 0. Wittig, Esq.,Kornerstrasse, 2B,Leipsic, Germany.
W.H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, South Melbourne,
Victoria, Austrs ia.
M. Leymarie, 6, Reu Neuve, des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy,
1, Paris,
Bpes Sergent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New
York, U.S.A,
M. Leon Favre, Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Phila¬
delphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de
1’Europe, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 286, Ohaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck,
Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Frit?, Rue de Palais, 137, Schaerbeok, Lex-
Bruxelles.
loeut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
2. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cavuga Co., New York,
U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel del’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L..O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-
square, London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul; Trieste,
Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
IsaacB. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah,U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eporjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 64, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaje,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr, J. H., Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near
Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Berks T. Huchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavillion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H, J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York.
T. Blyton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Daiston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 46 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fitz,
121, Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Traces,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Bnxton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M.
Anton Prochaszka, Josefstaadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse,
23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Daiston Association of Enquiries into Spiritualism. Hon.
Secretary, T. Blynton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston-
lane, Daiston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.—Mr. A. J. Smart, 22,
Moira-place—Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola Cerventes, 34, 28, Madrid.
President—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad Espirita Central de la Republica Maxicana. Presi¬
dent—Senor Refugio T Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo,
Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Columbia, South America.
President—Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BEITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading room and library, with a secre¬
tary in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries.
Seances can be attended by recommendation from a member.
For terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of Truth
—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—V. Love
and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII. The Burial of
Webster—VTII. The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda —IX. The
Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope for
the Sorrowing—XHI. Compensation—XIV. The Eagle of
Freedon—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI. Little Johnny—XVII.
“ Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX
“ I still Live”—XX. Life—XXI. Love-XXII. “ For a’ that”
—XXIII. Words o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
prophecy of V ala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle
or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The
Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price
5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C., Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
rilHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the oldest
JL journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world ! Issued weekly, at No 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac
B. Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor ; aided by
a large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a Uterary department
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical, and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit message department; contributions by the most talented
writers in. the world, Ac. Ac. Terms of subscription, in ad¬
vance, 16s. pfer annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
( Office, London, W.O.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
,61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 6. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
6, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 till 6 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
•> engagements to deliver public or private addresses in
London or the provinces. Address, 92, Caroline St., Notting¬
ham.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and
Healing. Medical advice to ladies and children.
Terms modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of
business—Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Satur¬
days, from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. 80, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, W.C.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Frank¬
lin, gives seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-
square, from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every
evening from 8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engage¬
ments can be made-by letter sent to the above address.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Handwriting, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-courb, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients, and may be consulted daily
from 2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
GLAIRVOYANTE and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair; sex and age re¬
quired. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism, Specialities.
At home from 12 till 6 p.m. Patients treated at their homes
when desired. 99, Park-street, Grosvenor-square,London, W.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; Post free for l^d.; or six copies post free for
6d.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal deludes psycho-
logiques, fondd par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Societe
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN SPITITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It
shows (we think successfully) that every form of medium-
ship, now so familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical
records of identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts l and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These books, ‘consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrow¬
ing parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
FOLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodgings on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualist] can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
A SELECT CIRCLE, holding SScmcea for
physical manifestations once a week, requires a few
more members— especially ladies. For particulars, apply to
R, S. T., care on^ti^prfRirke, 38, Great Russell-street, W.d.
No. 352,—VOjLUJVIE FOURTEEN J NUMBER TWENTY-ONE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 23rd, 1879.
THEOSOPHIC THAUMATURGY.
The following paragraph from The Bombay Gazette was
copied into The Friend of India of April 11th last:— .
“ Strange stories have, for several years, been rife in the
American newspapers about the marvels of Thaumaturgy
wrought by the Countess Blavatsky, one of the Theoso-
phical party now in Bombay. If they are credible, the
inference would be that a Simon Magus in petticoats had
arisen in our days. Some of them stagger belief, as, for
instance, her causing music to float through the air in the
absence of any comprehensible cause, the instantaneous dupli¬
cation of documents and articles of clothing, the causing of
inscriptions in golden letters, of Oriental texts to appear
and disappear on the furniture, the rendering of herself in¬
visible, the production of paintings and writings on paper by
the mere placing of her palm upon the same. Yet all these
phenomena and many equally strange have been attested by
numbers of eye-witnesses, not Theosophists, not even always
previous acquaintances. Of one of her magical pictures—the
portrait of an Indian jogi—Thomas Le Clear, an eminent
American painter, and William B,. O’Donovan, an equally
distinguished sculptor, affirmed, in a London journal, that no
living artist could, in their opinion, equal it in vigour,
breadth, and uniqueness, while they were both unable to
decide upon the nature of the colouring substance employed
or the manner of its application.”
The same paper proceeds to give an account of somewhat
similar feats in Bombay, one “under the very eyes of an
assistant magistrate and collector of the North-west Pro¬
vinces.” Another has already been commented upon, in the
strain naturally to be expected, by several London news¬
papers. A gentleman, known to our readers by his contribu¬
tions to these columns, may perhaps be identified as one of
the witnesses to this particular marvel, nothing less than the
instantaneous transmission of a glove from Mme. Blavatsky
in Bombay to the gentleman in question in London, who
received it through the mediumship of a lady, a well-known
private medium. As, however, he has publicly explained
(while declaring his own entire belief in the fact asserted,
and confidence in the persons principally concerned as agents)
that in his view the evidence depends for its force on the
personal character of the two ladies in question, which the
general public cannot be expected to know much about, we
agree with him that it does not satisfy the conditions which
would make the story suitable for publication. Evidences of
spirit agency or of magical power should be quite indepen¬
dent of such assumptions. To personal friends the integrity
of individuals may be matter of almost or quite absolute
certainty, but for the inexperienced public it is better to
exclude injurious suggestions by strict demonstration that
they are inconsistent with the facts.
Can a Bombay daily newspaper be delivered in London by
occult means on the morning of its publication ? That would
be evidence adapted to the requirements of the public.
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood will give evidence before the Psycho¬
logical Society next Thursday, about phenomena he has observed.
A Psychological Society in Sydney.—The first regular fortnightly
meeting of the Psychological Society of New South Wales was held last
evening at the Temperance Hall. There was an attendance of about a
hundred and fifty members. Mr. E. Greville, M.P., presided. Mrs. Hardinge
Britten delivered an eloquent discourse on “ The Powers of the Soul.” A
discussion then took place, in which Mr. Harold Stephen, Mr. A. De Lissa,
Mr. Sinclair, and Mrs. Britten took part. The society numbers about a
hundred and twenty members. The Hon. J. B. Wilson was appointed
president; Mr. E. Greville, vice-president; C. Haviland; hon. secretary, and
Mr. M‘Donnell, treasurer. The committee comprises ten, and the council
twenty members. The society has a good library; it meets every fortnight,
and at the next meeting Serjeant Cox’s paper on psychology will be read
and commented upon. Last night’s proceedings closed with a vote of thanks
to Mrs. Britten for her able address.—Sydney Evening News.
IDEAS ABOUT SPIRITS HELD BY THE CHINESE OE THE
STRAITS SETTLEMENTS.
Mr. Martheze has forwarded us from Singapore an inte¬
resting book just published there by Mr. J. D. Yaughan,
Barrister-at-Law, entitled The Manners and Customs of the
Chinese of the Straits Settlements, and from it we make the
following extracts:—
SIN CHEW.
“ The following description of Sin Chew, as practised by the
Chinese of the Straits Settlements, is taken from the judg¬
ment of Sir Benson Maxwell in the suit of Choa Cheow Neoh
v. Spottiswoode:—
* The word Sin Chew is composed of Sin, which means a
spirit, soul, or ghost, and Chew, which means ruler ; and the
composite word means the spirit ruler, or spiritual head of
the house. When a man dies, his name, with the dates of
his birth and death, is engraved on a tablet; this is enclosed
in an outer casing, on which a new name, which now for the
first time given to him, and the names of his children, are
engraved. This tablet is kept either in the house of the
worshipper, or in that which has been set apart for the Sin
Chew. It is sacred, andean be touched only by the male descen¬
dants or nearest male relatives of the deceased, who alone may
look upon the name on the enclosed tablet. It is the represen¬
tation of the deceased. At certain periods, viz., on the
anniversary of his death, and once in each of the four
seasons, his son or sons, or if he has none, his nearest male
relative, but never his daughters or other females, go to the
place where the tablet is, and lay on a table in front of it a
quantity of food, such as pigs, goats, ducks, fowls, fish,
sweetmeats, fruit, tea, and arrack. They light joss-sticks,
fire crackers, bum small squares of thin brown paper, in the
centre of each of which is about a square inch of gold or
silver tinsel; they bow their heads three times, kneel, touch
the ground with their foreheads, and call on the Sin Chew
by his new name to appear and partake of the food provided
for him. The food remains on the table for one or two or
even three hours, during which time the spirit feeds on its
etherial savour; and to ascertain whether it is satiated or
satisfied, two 'pitis (Chinese coins) or two pieces of bamboo are
thrown on the table or on the ground in front of it, and if
they both turn up with the same face, the offering is con¬
sidered insufficient, and more food is laid on the table. After
the lapse of a sufficient time to allow the spirit to partake of
it, the same test is again resorted to, and so on, until the coins
or bamboos, by turning up different faces, show that the
spirit has had enough. The food is then removed, and eaten
or otherwise disposed of by the relatives, but there is no
distribution of it in charity or among the poor. Indeed, the
Chinese have a repugnance to food which has been offered in
this way, except when they are members of the family. The
papers which are burnt supply the spirit with money and
clothing, the gold and silver tinsel turning into precious
,, metal. No prayers are offered to the spirit; the person who
> | makes the offering of food asks for nothing whatever. The
primary object of the ceremony is to show respect and rever¬
ence to the deceased, to preserve his memory in this world,
and to supply his wants in the other. Its performance is
agreeable to God, the supreme all-seeing, all-knowing, and
invisible being, who assists and prospers those who are regu¬
lar in this duty; and its neglect entails disgrace on him
whose duty it is to perform it, and poverty and starvation on
the neglected spirit, which then leaves its abode (either the
grave or the house where the tablet rests) and wanders about
an outcast, begging of the more fortunate spirits, and
haunting and tormenting his negligent descendant, and man¬
kind generally. To avert the latter evil, the wealthier
Chinese make, in the seventh Month, every year, a general
242
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 23, 1879.
public offering, or sacrifice, called Kee-too or Poh-toh, for the j)
benefit of all poor spirits.’ The real Chinaman as well as a n
few Babas remit money annually to China for the perform- j j
ance of the Sin Chew at the graves of their ancestors.” j;
WORSHIPPING THE DEAD. I)
“ Every family goes to the graves of its ancestors twice a j \
year. Eatables of various kinds are placed at the foot of j)
each grave with chop-sticks, and joss-sticks are lighted and U
stuck into the ground round the grave. Each visitor takes i r
a few in both hands and kow-tows to the ground twice, and j \
sacred paper representing money is burnt; for the spirits of |)
the dead are supposed to require money to buy clothes and |(
food in the other world. After burning the paper the kow- \\
towing is repeated, and while doing so each person says * on j (
such a day we, your descendants or relations, come to worship j)
you ; protect and guard us,’ or words to the same effect. In | \
the meantime the ghosts of the departed are supposed to I)
enjoy themselves over the eatables. When they are satisfied, | (
their children return home and demolish the food left by the j)
spirits. . . !;
“ The prospect of death has no fears for the Chinese, and j j
they commit suicide on the slighest provocation. A wife will j;
do it to revenge herself on her husband when she goes to j |
the other world, believing that she will have the power to j;
return at any time to vex and tease her refractory spouse. A j (
coolie afflicted with a troublesome sore that lasts longer than j)
he thinks necessary will coolly go out during the night and | (
hang himself on the first tree he comes athwart. Or a trivial ! j
dispute with his master will lead a coolie to take his own life | \
to rid himself of the annoyance. For imaginary or tempo- !)
rary evils they commit suicide hastily, but often will endure i (
for years the greatest sufferings with patience and fortitude. | /
The worship of the dead and the attention paid to their K
wants in the other world by the living must in a great ]/
measure conduce to this callousness of death. They have no ! \
definite ideas of what their future state may be, but are con- j)
vinced, unless very wicked in this life, that they are sure to | \
be happier in the other world than in this. The Christian’s I <j
ideas are somewhat opposed to this view. However good he | J
may be, the terrors of death and the cruel punishments await- i /
ing him on the other side of the grave, inculcated by a false i (
teaching, render him fearful of the change. i)
“From the first to thirtieth day of the seventh moon evil n
spirits, or rather the spirits of the dead, are conciliated or wor- j)
shipped. During this month the spirits are supposed to wander i (
about the earth, and if not propitiated plague the offenders j )
with divers pains and aches and more serious mishaps. Long j)
tables are spread with all the delicacies of the season, and !(
placed opposite the temples, and in other convenient places, j)
exposed to the open air or under rough sheds erected for the j (
occasion. Amongst the food are conspicuous the animals ij
sacrificed to the manes of the dead, chiefly pigs, goats, fowls, j (
and ducks ; which are roasted whole and placed on the tables, j j
in all their hideousness. The. tables are ornamented with 1 (
artificial flowers, fish, and fruits, and are well worth seeing, j)
The spirits feast during the month to their hearts’ content, ] (
and at the end of the ceremony the viands are disposed of I j
by the living.” I (
SUPERSTITIONS OE THE CHINESE. ’ |)
“The Chinese people nooks, corner of roads, trees, rocks, |(
and sundry other places with fays and fairies and goblins \')
damned innumerable, and do them worship to propitiate them, i f
Incense sticks, slips of paper, tinsel ornaments, and other j)
gewgaws may be seen at the most out-of-the-way spots, K
showing that the inhabitants of the neighbourhood have dis- !)
covered an evil spirit thereabouts. j (
“ Silk cotton trees have invariably a female demon, called j)
Bantu Puntianak. These creatures assume the loveliest n
female shapes, and appear on the high roads, especially on j)
moonlight nights, and allure men to their destruction. They |(
are exorcised by driving a few long iron nails into the tree. |)
If a nail is driven into this goblin’s head she immediately be- \ (
comes human. They sometimes appear at feasts, and eat and |)
drink and enjoy themselves like other people, and win the jj
hearts of the young men. jj
“ There is a legend that, in Malacca Once, a young fellow |)
fell in love with one of these goblins at a feast, and knowing j |
her to be a hantu, got an iroti nail and a hammei1 and sud- I (
denly drove the former into her skull, and she at once became a
real woman and married the young man. They had a son,
and years after the goblin, having grown tired of her human
existence, told her son to feel in her hair that something had
got there troubling her ; he did so and came upon the head
of the iron nail that his father had driven in ; his mother
told him to pull it out; he did so, and immediately to his
astonishment the mother vanished through the roof and was
never seen again.
“There is another demon, very tall and ghastly, called Hantu
Qallah : * he waylays men in out-of-the-way places and takes
their heads off. There is one goblin who only has a head
and no body—a cherub, perhaps—who also waylays men and
destroys them.
“ If a man is very ill and other modes fail to cure him, he
makes an image like himself in paper, and puts it with some
money and food in a paper house, and places it in a tree, and
the evil spirit that is punishing him it is supposed will be
appeased.
“ Nor is the belief in demons confined to the lowest classes.
In the garden of one of the richest men in Singapore, at Passir
Panjang may be seen an immense granite boulder, supposed
to be the abode of evil spirits, enshrined in a handsome
temple in which worship is held to appease the demons. They
have a strong belief in persons being possessed with devils.
At some of the country temples sometimes dwells a demoniac
or two, and they are consulted by sick persons. A Baba told
the writer that he was very ill some years ago, with dysentery,
and all the Chinese doctors in town (Singapore) failed to
cure him ; he was advised to visit one of these demoniacs on
the Cayalng Road, which he did ; the impostor received him
with great ceremony, and suddenly began to shake all over as
if moved by some spirit, and he then directed the inquirer to
do a lot of nonsensical things which he said would cure him.
The Baba tried the remedies, but without success, and even¬
tually appealed to an English doctor, who successfully cured
him ; so much for science. The Baba’s faith in the possessed
has ever since been much shaken.
“ This man has a strong belief in the return of the spirits of
the dead to the earth. He says that if he is tardy in the third
and seventh moons to prepare the sacrifices for the benefit of his
departed ancestors the spirit of his father appears to him at
night, and upbraids him for his undutiful conduct; and he
there and then gets out of bed and slaughters fowls and ducks
to satisfy the old gentleman.
“ Nearly every disease a man gets is assigned to the malig¬
nity of evil spirits. If the worship of the dead is neglected
or improperly performed the spirits are sure to punish the
living. To counteract the influence of evil, Babas hang up in
their houses sprigs of certain plants—one called jaringo and
another of the aloes kind; or they nail over the door a
picture of a god or goddess; the keih~ or patpoh, as it is
called by the Babas, is also put up for good luck.
“ Babas believe in the use of many Malay charms, and tie
them on their arms or hang them around their necks. The
belief in the Ubat Gunah—a spell or charm that wins the
heart of a man or woman in spite of all obstacles—is uni¬
versal ; they also believe that the red slips of paper which
they buy from fortune tellers, written over with Chinese
characters, pasted up on the door-posts of a house, keep away
evil spirits. Jade stones are worn as charms; these are sup¬
posed to wax whiter when the wearer is about to be unlucky,
or reddish when he is to be prosperous; similar to the super¬
stitious belief that coral beads change colour as the health of
the wearer varies.”
The annual general meeting of the members of the National Associa¬
tion of Spirituansts will be held at 38, Great Russell-street, next Tuesday,
at 6.30 p.m.
Mr. E. W. Wallis will give a trance lecture at Mr. Groom’s, 200, St.
Yincent-street, Ladywood, Birmingham, on Tuesday evening next, May
27th, at eight o’clock. After the lecture Mrs. Groom will give clairvoyant
tests. Friends are invited. Collection towards expenses.
Inner Consciousness.—The more I have examined the workings of my
own mind, the less respect I feel for the part played by consciousness. I
begin, with others, to doubt its use altogether as a helpful supervisor, and
to think that my best brain-work is wholly independent of it. Its position
appears to be that of a helpless spectator of but a minute fraction ot a huge
amount of automatic brain-work.—Francis Galton.
* Hdntu, goblin, sceptre.—Crawf'O.vd,
May 23, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
243
THE MORAL TEACHINGS OF SPIRITUALISM.
The following is extracted from Miracles and Modern
Spiritualism, by Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace (J. Burns,
London) :—
The hypothesis of Spiritualism not only accounts for all
the vast array of phenomena which claims to put us into
communication with beings who have passed into another
phase of existence (and is the only one that does so), but it is
further remarkable as being associated with a theory of a
future state of existence, which is the only one yet given to
the world that can at all commend itself to the modern
philosophical mind. There is a general agreement and tone
of harmony in the mass of facts and communications termed
“ spiritual,” which has led to the growth of a new literature,
and to the establishment of a new religion. The main
doctrines of this religion are: That after death man’s spirit
survives in an ethereal body, gifted with new powers, but
mentally and morally the same individual as when clothed in
flesh. That he commences from that moment a course of
apparently endless progression, which is rapid, just in pro¬
portion as his mental and moral faculties have been exercised
and cultivated while on earth. That his comparative happi¬
ness or misery will depend on himself; just in proportion as
his higher human faculties have taken part in all his pleasures
here, will he find himself contented and happy in a state of
existence in which they will have the fullest exercise. While
he who has depended more on the body than the mind for
his pleasures, will, when that body is no more, feel a grievous
want, and must slowly and painfully develop his intellectual
and moral nature till its exercise shall become easy and
pleasurable. Neither punishments nor rewards are meted
out by an external power, but each one’s condition is the
natural and inevitable sequence of his condition here. He
starts again from the level of moral and intellectual develop¬
ment to which he has raised himself while on earth.
Now here we have a striking supplement to the doctrines
of modem science. The organic world has been carried on
to a high state of development, and has been ever kept in
harmony with the forces of external nature, by the grand
law of “ survival of the fittest ” acting upon ever varying
organisations. In the spiritual world, the law of the “ pro¬
gression of the fittest ” takes its place, and carries on in
unbroken continuity that development of the human mind
which has been commenced here.
The communion of spirit with spirit is said to be by thought¬
reading and sympathy, and to be perfect between those whose
beings are in harmony with each other. Those who differ
widely have little or no power of intercommunion, and thus
are constituted “ spheres,” which are divisions, not merely of
space, but of social and moral sympathetic organisation.
Spirits of the higher “ spheres ” can, and do sometimes
communicate with those below; but these latter cannot
communicate at will with those above. But there is for all
an eternal progress solely dependent on the power of will in
the development of spirit nature. There are no evil spirits
but the spirits of bad men, and even the worst are surely if
slowly progressing. Life in the higher spheres has beauties
and pleasures of which we have no conception. Ideas of
beauty and power become realised by the will, and the infinite
cosmos becomes a field where the highest development of
intellect may range in the acquisition of boundless knowledge.
It may be thought, perhaps, that I am here giving merely
my own ideal of a future state, but it is not so. Every state¬
ment I have made is derived from those despised sources, the
rapping table, the writing hand, or the entranced spc aker.
And to show that I have not done justice either to the ideas
themselves, or to the manner in which they are often
conveyed to us, I subjoin a few extracts from the spoken
addresses of one of the most gifted “ trance-mediums,” Mrs.
Emma Hardinge.
In her address on “ Hades/’ she sums up in this passage
her account of our progress through the spheres:—
“ Of the nature of those spheres and their inhabitants we have spoken
from the knowledge of the spirits, dwellers still in Hades. Would you
receive some immediate definition of your own condition, and learn how you
shall dwell, and what your garments shall be, what your mansion, scenery,
likeness, occupations P Turn your eyes within, and ask what you have
learned and what you have done in this, the schoolhouse for the spheres of
spirit land. There—there is an aristocracy, and even royal rank and varying
' I degree, but the aristocracy is one of merit, and as the wisest soul is he that
J . is best, as the truest wisdom is the highest love, so the royalty of the soul is
11 truth and love. And within the spirit world all knowledge of this earth, all
I j forms of science, all revelations of art, all mysteries of space, must be under-
II stood. The exalted soul that is then fully ready for his departure to a
11 higher state than Hades must know all^tbat earth can teach, and have
i.j practised all that Heaven requires. The spirit never quits the spheres of
> j earth until he is fully possessed of all the life and knowledge of this planet
1! and its spheres. And though the progress may be here commenced, and not
, | one jot of what you learn, or think, or strive for here, is lost, yet all achieve-
> | ments must be ultimated there, and no soul can wing its flight to that which
) i you call, in view of its perfection, Heaven, till you have passed through
J | Earth and Hades, and stand ready in your fully completed pilgrimage to
| enter on the new and unspeakable glories of the celestial realms beyond.”
I Could tbe philosopher or the man of science picture to
I himself a more perfect ideal of a future state than this ? Does
| it not commend itself to him as what he could wish, if he
| could by his wish form the future for himself ? Yet this is
j the teaching of that which he scouts as an imposture or a
| delusion—as the trickery of knaves or the ravings of madmen
! —modern Spiritualism. I quote another passage from the
) 1 same address, and I would ask my readers to compare the
(| modesty of the first paragraph with the claims of infallibility
j| usually put forward by the teachers of new creeds or new
j I philosophies:—
“ It is true that man is finite and imperfect; hence his utterances are too
(i frequently the dictation of his own narrow perceptions, and his views are
) j limited by his own finite capacity. But as you judge him, so also ye ‘ shall
/! judge the angels.’ Spirits only present you with the testimony of those
) j who have advanced one step beyond humanity, and ask for no credence from
(| man without the sainction of man’s judgment and reason. Spirits, then, say
) | that their world is as the soul or spiritual and sublimated essence of this
)! human world of yours—that, in locality, the spirit world extends around
) j this planet, as all spirit spheres encircle in zones and belts all other planets,
(! earths, and bodies in space, until the sphere of each impinges upon the other,
(1 and they form in connection one vast and harmonious system of natural and
j I spiritual worlds throughout the universe.”
(j The effects of vice and ungoyerned passions are thus
) j depicted :—
) | “ Those spirits have engraved themselves with a fatal passion for vice,
but, alas! they dwell in a world where there is no means for its gratifica-
{| tion. There is the gambler, who has burnt into his soul the fire of the love
(I of gain; he hovers around earth’s gamblers, and, as an unseen tempter,
j | seeks to repeat the now lost joys of the fatal game. The sensualist, the
) i man of violence, the cruel and angry spirit—all who have steeped themselves
(I in crime or painted their souls with those dark stain spots which they vainly
\ i think are of the body only—all these are there, no longer able to enact
j i their lives of earthly vice, but retaining on their souls the deadly mark, and
) I the fatal though ungratified desire for habitual sin; and so these imprisoned
71 spirits, chained by their own fell passions in the slavery of hopeless criminal
A | desires, hover round those who attract them as magnets draw the needle,
jn by vicious inclinations similar to their own. But you say the soul, by
| ) j tempting others, must thus sink deeper into crime Ay, but remember that
i) another point of the spiritual doctrine is the universal teaching of eternal
progress.”
And then she goes on to depict in glowing language how
;> | these spirits too, in time, lose their fierce passions, and learn
m how to begin the upward path of knowledge and virtue.
| | But I must leave the subject, as I wish to give one extract
I) | from the address of the same gifted lady, on the question,
\{\ “ What is Spirit ?” as an example of the high eloquence and
|) | moral beauty with which aU her discourses are inspired:—
“ Small, and to some of us even insignificant, as seems the witness of the
| c i spirit-circle, its phenomenal gleams are lights which reveal, in their aggre-
\ j gate, those solemn truths to us. There we behold foregleams of the powers
hi of soul, which so vastly do transcend the laws of matter. That soul’s con-
| j | tinued existence and triumph over death; our own embodied spirit’s power
u of communication with the invisible world around us, and its various occult
|(l forces. Clairvoyance, clairaudience, prophecy, vision, psychometry, and
i) i magnetic healing; how grand and wonderful appears the soul invested, even
j,i} in this earthly prison house, with all these gleams of power so full of glorious
i) i promise of what we shall be when the prison gates of matter open wide and
j (! set the spirit free! Oh! fair young gins, whose forms of supreme loveliness
j) I are nature’s crowning gems, forget not, when the great Creator’s bounteous
i) | hand adorned your blooming spring with the radiance of summer flowers,
I) I that He shrined within that casket of tinted beauty a soul whose glory shall
11 j survive the decay of all earthly things, and live in weal or woe, as your
| \ | generation stamps it with beauty or stains it with sinful ugliness, when
I >! spring shall no more return, nor summer melt in the vast changeless ever-
|) | more. Lift up your eyes from the beautiful dust of to-day, which to-morrow
| (j shall be foul in death’s corruption, to the ever-hving soul which you, not
n | destiny, must adorn with immortal beauty. Remember you are spirits, and
j j j that the hours of your earthly life are only granted you to shape and form
j 51 those spirits for eternity. Young men, who love to expand the muscles of
I (I the mind, and wrestle in mental gladiatorial combats for the triumphant
| (| crowns of science, what are all these to the eternal conquests to be won in
I (j fields of illimitable science in the realms of immortahty! Press on through
i) | earth as a means, but only to attain to the nobler, higher colleges of the
i / i never-dying life, and use moral aims as instruments to gild your souls with
: : the splendour that never fades, but which yourselves must win here or here-
244
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 23, 1879.
after, ere you are fit to pass as graduates iu the halls of eternal science. To | (
understand that we are spirits, and that we live for immortality, to know and | (
insure its issues: is not this, to Spiritualists, the noblest though last bright j)
page which God has revealed to us ? Is not to read and comprehend this j)
page the true mission of modern Spiritualism ? All else is but the phe- i (
nomenal basis of the science which gives us the assurance that spirits live, i (
This is one great aim and purpose of modern Spiritualism, to know what the j j
spirit is , and what it must do—how best to live, so that it may most surely |)
array itself in the pure white robes of immortality which is purged of all k
mortal sin and earthly grossness.” j (
The teachings of Mrs. Hardinge agree in substance with \l
those of all the more developed mediums, and I would ask i )
whether it is probable that these teachings have been evolved K
from the conflicting dogmas of a set of impostors ? Neither j)
does it seem a more probable solution, that they have been •;(
produced “ unconsciously ” from the minds of self-deluded |)
men and weak women, since it is palpable to every reader ] (
that these doctrines are essentially different in every detail, j)
from those taught and believed by any school of modern j(
philosophers, or any sect of modern Christians. j)
This is well shown by their opposing statements as to the j (
condition of mankind after death. In the accounts of a |)
future state given by, or through the best mediums, and in i (
the visions of deceased persons by clairvoyants, spirits are j)
uniformly represented in the form of human beings, and their K
occupations as analogous to those of earth. But in the most 1/
religious descriptions, or pictures of heaven, they are repre- is
sen ted as icinged beings, as resting on, or surrounded by j)
clouds, and their occupations to be playing on golden harps, Is
or perpetual singing, prayer, and adoration before the throne ])
of God. How is it if these visions and communications are K
but there-modelling of pre-existing or preconceived ideas by i)
a diseased imagination, that the popular notions are never K
reproduced ? How is it that whether the medium be man, I)
woman, or child, whether ignorant or educated, whether K
English, German, or American, there should be one and the | /
same consistent representation of these preterhuman beings, l\
at variance with popular notions of them, but such as j)
strikingly to accord with the modern scientific doctrine of n
“ continuity ” ? I submit that this little fact is of itself a j <
strong corroborative argument, that there is some objective
truth in these communications. ]|
All popular religions, all received notions of a future state j (
of existence, alike ignore one important side of human nature, j (
and one which has a large share in the happiness of our j )
present existence. Laughter, and the ideas that produce it, j (
are never contemplated as continuing to exist in the spirit \)
world. Every form of jovial merriment, of sparkling wit, |(
and of that humour which is often akin to pathos, and many I)
of the higher feelings of our nature, are alike banished from j (
the sectarian’s heaven. Yet if these and all the allied feelings \)
vanish from our natures, when we “ shuffle off this mortal j(
coil,” how shall we know ourselves, how retain our identity ? j)
A poet, writing on the death of Artemus Ward in The j(
Spectator, well asks :— j)
“ Is he gone to the land of no laughter, !)
This man who made mirth for us all P j)
Proves death but a silent hereafter, ! /
Prom the sounds that delight and appal! K
Once closed, have the lips no more duty, I (
No more pleasure the exquisite ears; I)
Has the heart done o’erflowmg with beauty, i /
As the eyes have with tears ? ” I (
Now it is noteworthy that the communications which the j(
Spiritualist believes to be verily the words of our departed j)
friends, gives us full assurance that their individual characters j (
remain unchanged; that mirth, and wit, and laughter, and |j
every other human emotion and source of human pleasure \\
are still retained by them; and that even those small incidents |)
of the domestic circle, which have become a source of innocent K
mirth when they were with us in the body, are still capable j;
of exciting pleasurable feelings. And this has been held by |(
some to be an objection to the reality of these communications !}
instead of being, as it really is, a striking confirmation of j(
them. Continuity has been pre-eminently the law of our j>
mental development, and it rests with those who would j(
abruptly sever this continuity to prove their case. They have j)
never even attempted to show that it accords with the facts R
or with the analogies of nature. j;
Equally at variance with each other are the popular and j(
Spiritualistic doctrines as regards the Deity. Our modern *'
religious teachers maintain that they know a great deal about
God. They define minutely and critically His various attri¬
butes ; they enter into His motives, His feelings, and His
opinions; they explain exactly what He has done, and why
He has done it; and they declare that after death we shall
be with Him, and shall see and know Him. In the teaching
of the “ spirits ” there is not a word of all this. They tell us
that they commune with higher intelligences than themselves,
but of God they really know no more than we do. They say
that above the higher intelligences are others higher and
higher in apparently endless gradation, but as far as they
know no absolute knowledge of the Deity himself is claimed
by any of them. Is it possible, if these “ spiritual ” com¬
munications are but the workings of the minds of weak,
superstitious, or deluded human beings, that they should so
completely contradict one of the strongest and most cherished
beliefs of the superstitious and the religious, and should agree
with that highest philosophy (of which most mediums have
certainly never heard), which maintains that we can know
nothing of the almighty, the eternal, the infinite, the absolute
Being, who must necessarily be not only unknown and un¬
knowable, but even unthinkable by finite intelligences ?
I would point to the thousands it has convinced of the
reality of another world, to the many it has led to devote
their lives to works of philanthropy, to the eloquence and
poetry it has given us, and to the grand doctrine of an ever-
progressive future state which it teaches. Those who will
examine its literature will acknowledge these facts. Those
who will not examine for themselves either the literature or
the phenomena of Spiritualism, should at least refrain from
passing judgment on a matter of which they are confessedly
and wilfully ignorant.
I maintain, therefore, that whether we consider the vast
number and the high character of its converts, the immense
accumulation and authenticity of its facts, or the noble
doctrine of a future state which it has elaborated, the study
of modern Spiritualism is calculated to add greatly to our
knowledge of man’s true nature and highest interests.
THE PALL MALL GAZETTE ON CLAIRVOYANCE.
The Pall Mall Gazette of May 17th, says of u Gipsy’s ”
book, A Marked Life; or, The Autobiography of a Clair-
voyante (Sampson Low and Co.):—“ If this volume contains
—as it is alleged to contain, and as the publishers’ note pre¬
fixed to it implies that they have ascertained that it does
contain—a true account of the experiences of a clairvoyante,
assuredly the disbelief that at present exists concerning this
and other mystic crafts must soon disappear. Society has of
late been brought to look upon second sight and Spiritualism
as species of fraud nearly akin to for tune-telling; and the
exponents of these arts, whether they be spirit-media who
exhibit their powers at a guinea a head, or wandering gipsies
who extort shillings from credulous maidservants, are even
sometimes prosecuted and punished. The confessions of
‘ Gipsy ’ must, however, convince all those who believe in
them that these people have been most unfairly dealt with.
* Gipsy ’ does not, indeed, attempt to ascertain or explain the
origin of her power; but if it has any existence at all it
surely must be attributed to the assistance of spirits. By
merely shutting her eyes and waving her hands before her
face she is able to dip into futurity and conjure up at will
complete visions of coming events. It certainly seems a little
unfair to the world that one so gifted should have confined
herself to foretelling the success of a theatrical company
during a provincial tour, or ‘ fixing ’ the position of a coin
which has been hidden under a sofa. How many calamities
might have been averted if only ‘ Gipsy ’ had devoted her
powers to the world! After having once convinced the public
of her genuineness, than which surely nothing would have
been more easy, she might have started as a sort of universal
prophetess, and have regulated all the greater concerns of
human life. She, however, limits the exercise of her powers
to her own affairs ; and from what one reads in her biography,
she has not, even with their assistance, managed to pass
through life without encountering more serious misfortunes
than fall to the lot of the most commonplace people. At the
age of fifteen she elopes with a man of more than double her
age, who during their married life constantly threatens to kill
May 23, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
245
her, who once or twice savagely assaults her, and who on one
occasion attempts to confine her in a lunatic asylum. Three
times she is ruined and turned out in the world penniless,
and once she is burned out of house and home. Her husband
is nearly killed in the civil war of America, while she herself
is within an ace of being drowned in a boating expedition on
Lake Erie. At last she is divorced from her husband, after
having secured his acquittal on a charge of felony; and she
goes upon the stage, where, as manageress, proprietress, and
leading actress, she achieves a brilliant success. Tired of
this, she leaves America for London, being shipwrecked and
again nearly drownded en route. Some of these adventures
are disclosed to her in previous visions, but her second sight
does not much assist her in avoiding them. A more adven¬
turous biography if true, and a more audacious one if false, it
has never been our lot to read. Trouble is heaped up on
trouble in a most startling manner ; and the style in which
the history is related- does not tend to increase its verisimili¬
tude. Moreover, the belief in second sight is too much a
thing of the past. In the Highlands of Scotland and in
Scandinavia the belief was widely indulged in about a hun¬
dred years ago. But all faith in clairvoyance seems to have
disappeared from Scotland when MacCulloch wrote his His¬
tory of the Western Islands, sixty years ago; and there is
not much probability of its ever being revived, either there
or elsewhere—except, indeed, as a method of obtaining money
by false pretences.”
THE ANTIQUITY OF SPIRITUALISM.
Not a few ardent followers believe that Spiritualism will
be the religion of the future; certainly it was of the far
distant past. In that wonderful people, the enormous anti¬
quity of whose complex civilization is now firmly established,
who, more than two thousand years before our era, had
covered the valley of the Nile with works which we could not
rival, though the unknown God and Lord of Life was wor¬
shipped under various names and attributes, the popular
religion and household cultus was a Spiritualism the same as
is now developing amongst ourselves. Last year, Professor
Max Muller opened the series of Hibbert Lectures with a most
valuable survey of the Religion of Ancient India : this year,
Mr. le Page Renouf has undertaken to set forth the results
of the latest and fullest researches in the Civilization and
Religion of Ancient Egypt. On Thursday, the 15th ult., in
Stein way Hall, on the platform now familiar to many London
Spiritualists, he dealt with the popular views of the spiritual
composition of man current among the Egyptians five thou¬
sands years ago. This, it must be observed, is no matter of
surmise or inference from a few disputed passages or obscure
texts. The Egyptians have left their belief written at large
in endless inscriptions and records upon all conceivable sub¬
jects and in all conceivable forms, from royal edicts to private
prayers and memoranda. A principal and pervading tenet
amongst them was the double nature of man. Every human
being had his double, wraith, or astral spirit, as much a part
of him as his fleshly frame, at times and in certain con¬
ditions, independently visible and palpable. The Egyptian
name for this was kdr, a word exactly corresponding to the
Latin imago and the Greek 6l$w\oV. Through this mystic
companion individual separate existence was continued and
carried on after the dissolution of earth-life, and the commu¬
nication with it by survivors formed the greater part of that
ancestral worship and reverence for the dead that so re¬
markably distinguished Egyptian social life. Indeed, com¬
munion with the departed, care for their remains, and
elaborate arrangements for preserving their memory, formed
the principal occupation of domestic life in all classes, and
was probably carried to a height and perfection of which
some recent addresses and communications in The Spiritualist
afford an imperfect glimpse. Now, with wonder and astonish¬
ment, we are painfully recalling and struggling back to
powers and conditions that were the familiar possession and
privilege of ages that were grey before the birth of Moses.
Then the veil between this life and spiritual life was thin,
transparent, and more easily lifted, and the passage from
sphere to sphere less impeded. Another point brought forward
by Mr. le Page Renouf was the frequency and recognition of
“ possession ” in ancient Egypt; and he cited a large portion
of a royal inscription recording how a princess had become
j possessed by an adverse deity, to eject whom the highly
) | sacred image of one of the great gods was brought in solemn
|i state, and placed by the afflicted princess in presence of the
11 king and his army, who with awe and terror—so powerful
[| was the possessing demon—witnessed the expulsion of the
11 evil influence. Possession and obsession in all places were
| i familiar and recognised phenomena, and scientifically dealt
>j with.
iThe above is but an imperfect reminiscence of the points
| fully treated by Mr. Renouf, and it may be added that in
I the other primeval empire whose antiquity approaches
| nearest to that of Egypt—the Assyrian—the worship of,
and communion with, the departed, was as largely practised
j and as well understood as in the Nile Valley. There, too,
both spheres and states of existence stood nearer one another,
and communications and passages from one to the other were
|| not such matters of wonder, doubt, ridicule, and suffering,
as in later ages; then, too, the departed had more power
| and direct influence, and were held in higher reverence. In
| the Ishtar tablets of b.c. 2250, it is written :—
“I will raise up the Dead, devourers of the living;
Over the living the Dead shall triumph.”
[Again, in the same record, there appears a trace of the
| occurrence of “ Materialisation ” :—
“The spirit of Heabani, like glass, transparent from the earth arose.”
  W.-
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OE GREAT BRITAIN. '
The fifth annual meeting of this Society took place at 11, Chandos-street,
{; Cavendish-square, on Thursday, the 15th inst.
|| The president (Mr. Serjeant Cox.) and the hon. treasurer and secretary
(Mr. E. K. Muntpn) were unanimously re-elected for the ensuing year,
i Lord Borthwick, Mr. William Crookes, E.R.S., and Mr. George Harris,
LL.D., were re-elected as vice-presidents, and the retiring members of the
Council were again appointed. The Hon. Percy Wyndham, M.P., was
I elected to the seat on the Council vacant by the resignation of Mr. Dunlop,
j| C.B.
\: We extract from the hon. secretary’s annual report the following announce-
) i ment as to the Society’s future plan of action:—
) I “ Several members having intimated their opinion that the debates might
(: now assume a more practical character, the Council have conferred with the
II Investigation Committee with the view of arranging a series of discussions
not confined to mere theory. I am instructed to say that the labours of the
I Investigation Committee have been but partially successful, but enough has
been elicited to demand further inquiry. It is suggested that this may be
I better pursued by the common aid of the whole Society; and that such an
1 investigation of psychic phenomena as is demanded in the interests of
psychological science can only be satisfactorily made by collecting facts
} I through the direct evidence of competent witnesses on personal examination.
The Council therefore recommend that the Society should invite viva voce
communications of observations made by intelligent and reliable witnesses of
the phenomena presented within their personal experiences, that minute
j particulars maybe elicited and the accuracy essential to scientific inquiry
j secured.
1“ The Council propose to devote the greater portion of the next session
; to the accomplishment of this design—one of great interest and importance
if conducted in the spirit of free and impartial inquiry—and to this end they
ask all who have evidence to give to proffer it frankly for examination. The
I plan suggested is as follows:—The business will commence, as now, with
written communications of psychological phenomena; witnesses who have
volunteered their evidence will then be invited to give it in the formal shape
of an examination; questions for elucidation will be permitted; and, at the
expiration of a limited time, the taking of testimony will be adjourned, and
j the remainder of the evening will be occupied with discussions upon any
| matters suggested by the evidence received. Those who desire to com-
\ j municate any psychological facts and phenomena presented within their
11 personal knowledge (hearsay will not be admitted) are requested to notify
(| the same to me, and an intimation will be given when their presence will be
) j required.
) | r The first evidence meeting will be held on an early day, and the plan
(i will be continued at each subsequent meeting until further notice. As the
J i attendance of members at this inquiry will probably be large, the rule as to
; | the limited admission of friends will have to be strictly observed, and none
) I but members will be allowed to put questions to the witnesses or take part
(| in the subsequent discussion.”
{i The following is stated in the letter of a special correspondent of the
) I Philadelphia Times, dated New York, May 4th:—“ The talk of the town in
) | educational and literary circles is the surprise which Superintendent Kiddle
j | has executed on his friends and the public. Mr. Henry Kiddle has been
(i for about nine years superintendent of the Public Schools of this city. He
) I grew up in the profession of teaching, and has for nearly forty years been
) I identified in one way and another with the Public Schools. He is a scholarly
(| gentleman of about fifty-five years of age, exceedingly courtly in his manners,
\ I and a most diligent worker. As an organizer of educational affairs he has
); probably few superiors. Religiously his affiliations have been with the
? I Protestant Episcopal Church. Mr. Kiddle now astonishes everybody by
proclaiming himself a Spiritualist.”
246 THE SPIRITUALIST. . May 23, 1879.
A TEST MANIFESTATION.
At a recent meeting of the Investigating Committee of the j
Psychological Society, a chair was threaded upon the arm of
Mr. Serjeant Cox while he was grasping the hand of Mr.
C. E. Williams, the medium. The chair was afterwards I
examined, and the joints of it found to be firmly fastened.
When the manifestation was effected, Mr. Serjeant Cox’s arm
was below the second of the cross-bars of the back of the
chair, so that if his arm passed through the wood via the
top of the chair, it must have passed through two bars,—one
four inches in depth, the other three-quarters of an inch in
diameter. Mr. Serjeant Cox asserted positively that he had
not released the hand of Mr. Williams for an instant. He
took it before the light was extinguished, and when the light
was struck again, the chair was there, hanging on his arm.
INTERESTING PUBLIC SEANCES.
Mb. F. 0. Mathews, test and clairvoyant medium of
Birmingham, was recently engaged by the Glasgow Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, to which he gave nine public stances;
he gave several private sittings in the city as well, and he
sustained the good reputation which had preceded him. His
first sitting was given to the Association on Sunday morning,
May 4th, at 11.30 a.m. While the members were engaged
in singing, he passed into the trance condition, and addressed
the meeting at some length, and while doing so left the
impression that “oratory was not his forte.” We were
rewarded for our patient listening by a change of control,
and the giving of a series of unmistakable tests to many of
the sitters. Mr. Mathews had never been in the room before,
and was a total stranger to all present. The medium—whose
eyes were shut—turned to a lady near him, and said :—
“ Madam, there is a spirit here who wishes me to thank you
for your kindness to Mary. Mary is not in the spirit-world.
The spirit who communicates is related to you and to Mary,
and now in spirit accompanies Mary on her journey.” The
spirit was recognised by the person addressed. Her niece,
Mary, had sailed twenty-four years before to America, and the
spirit communicating was Mary’s mother, the departed sister
of the listener. He then walked to another lady and said :—
“ Your little girl is here, and says you will know who she is,
for you have a lock of her hair in your pocket, where it has
been ever since you took it down to look at it.” This was
quite correct; the lady had the lock of her deceased child’s
hair in her pocket.
He said to Mr. Walker, the president, “ Good morning,
my old friend. Betty says she sits here with a white cap on,
grey hair straggling out, and a cane by her side.” Mr.
Walker did not recognise the person, and said so. “ Oh yes,
you do,” exclaimed the medium ; “ she is offering you a pinch
of snuff, as of old.” Mr. Walker then admitted that he knew
the spirit well; at first she had escaped his memory, for
Betty was the last “ body ” he should have thought about.
Some of his tests were not recognised at the time they were
given, but were afterwards verified.
Speaking to a gentleman, Mr. Mathews said:—“ John,
your father William desires me to deliver to you a peculiar
message to this effect:—‘My son, be careful what you are
about. You intend to read this book (here the speaker lifted
the Bible off the reading desk) through from Genesis to
Revelations, and to ponder well its contents. Have a care
that you do not give a false interpretation or undue weight
to the words, Eternal, Everlasting, Hell, and Damnation, and
thereby follow my example and come to a premature grave.’ ”
The gentleman said that the test was wonderfully true ; he
intended to act as described, and his father had died of
religious mania brought about by fear of eternal punishment.
Speaking to another, the medium said:—“ Sir, you have a
heavy payment to make to-morrow, which must be attended
to ; the papers connected therewith are now in your pocket.”
Many other tests of a most satisfactory description were given.
I have had two private sittings with Mr. Mathews, and
whether the communications were pleasing or the reverse,
they were true; I have no hesitation in stating that Mr.
Mathews is possessed of excellent clairvoyant powers, mani¬
fested in all degrees from sympathy and mind-reading up to
those higher grades, and taking cognisance of the spiritual
and material alike. J. Coates.
65, Jamaica-street, Glasgow.
A CURIOUS PHENOMENON WELL CERTIFIED.
The following is from .Mind and Matter (Philadelphia,
U.S.A.), May 10th, 1879
Spiritual Conference at Lyric Hall, No. 259 J, North 9th
Street, April 27, 1879.
Report of the Committee appointed by the “ Keystone
Association of Spiritualists ” to investigate the phenomenon
(i of denominated spirit-writing in Wm. H. Powell.
The Committee was appointed on Sunday, April 6th, 1879,
? and consisted of W. Paine, M.D., chairman; Reuben Garter,
;j M.D.; B. F.DuBois, H. H. Clayton, Francis J. Keffer, John
)\ P. Hayes, and A. Lawrence.
According to arrangements, the Committee, in connection
ji with Mr. Powell, met at the office of Dr. Paine, No. 250,
J| South Ninth-street, on Thursday evening, April 8th, 1879.
Mr. Powell passed into a state of somnambulancy, or cata-
(\ lepsy, that he denominates spirit control, when his pulse
| / i became more full; respiration increased from 18 to 25, face
](I flushed, the carotid vessels throbbed, and the heart had a
|) | laboured action.
Kj In the course of three or four minutes he signified the
)j want of a slate, and commenced to write with his index
I' finger. This finger was then washed with strong soap and
j water, and the entire Committee examined it to see that there
| was nothing on it previous to the effort to write.
After writing messages on slates, this abnormal condition
disappeared, and Mr. Powell, conscious, talked as freely as
I before. In order to make a more careful test of this peculiar
) j phenomenon, his sleeves were rolled up, his hands, arms, and
11 face were washed in strong soap and water, then in a solution
) | of muriatic acid of sufficient strength to destroy any calca-
II reous substance that might be secreted about him. His finger
nails were pared and carefully scraped; perfectly new slates
were furnished, and a brilliant light; every possible precau-
| tion was taken to detect fraud or deception. In a few
! moments Mr. Powell passed into a similar condition to that
previously mentioned, and with his finger extended, in view
I of all, there appeared a soft, pulpy mass with which he could
write with perfect freedom.
The experiment was repeated seven (7) times, and in every
| instance with the same results.
He also took hold of the index finger of a member of the
Committee, and there appeared upon the end of his finger a
I similar substance, with which he could write with his finger,
i as well as with his own. The moment he let go of the finger
l\ the substance would drop off, but in most instances was
1i retained as long as he had the finger grasped between his
I own.
The finger nails of the member of the Committee through
which he wrote were also washed and scraped, and carefully
| observed ; the Committee are positive they did not come in
| contact with any substance after the washing and scraping,
I until they were applied to the slate, where the substance
I exuded and writing was executed.
The slates were washed with acid water, and every pre¬
caution taken so that no substance was on the slate at the
time of the application of the finger. The substance could
) | be seen exuding from the finger while Mr. Powell was in
>! this state, and several pieces were obtained and subjected to
{I careful chemical and microscopic examinations.
The microscopic appearance was that of albuminous cells
(j filled with a pigment. There were also fragments of cuticle
j | and epiphytal structures. The chemical analysis showed the
(j substances were composed of albumen, starch, phosphate of
(| lime, and phosphate of ammonia, with an amorphous pigment
(i matter without any traces of lead, slate, or other substances
)| ordinarily used for writing on slates. During the experi-
|j ments the hands were covered with towels, handkerchiefs,
) i &c., and yet the substance would appear through them.
The Committee have also resorted to all other accessible
> j means to account for this phenomenon, on other principles
u than those claimed by Mr. Powell, and their efforts have
) I been entirely unsuccessful, so that they are perfectly satis-
(I fied that there is no deception or fraud, and that Mr. Powell
| j j is not conscious of the production and nature of the phe-
5 nomenon.
May 23, 1879,
THE SPIKITIJALIST.
247
We, therefore, submit that it is one of those peculiar
physiological manifestations that we cannot account for, and
as such respectfully present it.
Wm. Paine, M.D.,
B. F. Du Bois,
Jno. P. Haye^,
Alfred Lawrence,
Reuben Garter, M.D.,
Francis J. Keffer.
MESMERIC EXPERIMENTS.
Perhaps one of the greatest wants at the present time, is
the resuscitation before qualified observers of the mesmeric
experiments so common half a generation ago. Little progress
in investigating spiritual phenomena can be made, without
re-examining those of mesmerism. Could not the Psycho¬
logical Society undertake this useful work ? The last chapter
of the forthcoming book, Spirits Before our Byes, will show
that the key to the solution of some of the most perplexing
problems in Spiritualism is to be found in a particular class
of mesmeric experiments.
PRACTICAL LESSONS IN SPIRITUALISM*
BY LOUISA ANDREWS.
(Concluded.)
The last series of sittings I had with Dr. Slade (no one
being present but my sister and myself) took place just before
he left for England, and some of them were marvellous in the
amount of power displayed.
Persons often object to dark stances. I do not myself
regard them as by any means necessarily objectionable or
unsatisfactory. Although few, perhaps, have seen more in
the light, some of the sittings I have had in darkness have
been among the most convincing and satisfactory I ever
enjoyed. I have talked with seven different spirits in an
evening, some speaking (as did William White, of the Banner)
in a loud, clear, natural%oice, and others lower—a few with
great apparent difficulty. One Indian, speaking his own
melodious language, had the most wonderfully beautiful voice
I ever heard. It was a delight to listen to it, simply for its
musical sweetness, though we could not understand a word.
When very forcible demonstrations were expected, the
medium had to be made unconscious, as there was no other
way of keeping him still. Either I or my sister, when he
leaned back, entranced, in his chair, so that we could not
reach his hands, always kept our feet upon his.
Both in these evening sittings and in some I have had in
the daytime, the house has been so shaken that the pictures
swayed upon the walls. On one evening, especially, this
shaking was so violent that the chandelier in the room below
had its pendants loudly tinkled in striking together—the
doors and windows rattled as if a high wind were blowing
through the house, and the ceiling and floor were jarred as
by the firing of cannon. This motion lasted so long that it
produced with me a feeling of nausea. There seemed to be
crowds dancing and pounding upon the floor with bare feet—
hands were loudly clapped, and tremendous blows, as from
a mallet, threatened destruction to the table on which our
hands rested. The piano, which stood five or six feet from
the medium, was strummed upon, and to add to the awful din,
one end of the instrument was lifted and allowed to fall again
with heavy thuds. While all this was going on, spirits
crowded all about us, their hands grasped our shoulders and
arms, drapery was drawn across our faces, garments rustled
against us, and dark forms, passing between me and the
windows like pillars of cloud, shut out the light which came
between the cracks of the closed shutters. In the midst of
this tremendous demonstration, and while numberless feet
were still stamping about the floor, a loud, shrill Indian war-
whoop was heard, as if proceeding from some one flying
through the air, now close to our heads, and now high up
towards the ceiling, now at one end of the long room and
then at the other. These whoops were repeated in the
shrillest tones, and in literally breathless succession, during
many minutes, while all the time voluminous drapery, some
• I light and gauzy, and some substantial and heavy, swept over
11 our shoulders and heads, and what felt like trailing tresses of
11 long dry hair fell upon our faces—all this to the weird ac-
[ I companiment of the trembling and quaking, which never ceased
| till silence was restored. Altogether, the power displayed
| was such that I can really give you no idea of it by attempt-
\\ ing to describe the indescribable. I confess that although
(| my nerves were pretty well inured to sights and sounds of
} this nature, they were, during that sitting, strained rather
) | tightly and thrilled like harp-strings in a storm. Sometimes,
)| in these evening sittings, spirit voices rang close around and
) | above us. Once, what seemed to be a bodiless head passed
zl to and fro, singing, and its long beard swept over my sister’s
(j face. She said, “ Why! it feels like a beard.” The singing
) I head replied, “ It is my beard.” A tall form standing behind
\ me, and speaking in deep, clear tones, said, “ Do not fear me, I
/1 will not hurt you,” and placing his hand on my forehead, he
J | bent my head back till it rested on his breast, then, lifting
) j me from the floor, by grasping the back of my chair with
Si one hand and the rung in front with the other, he swung me,
i (i with long sweeps, from side to side through the air.
Once, when the form of a man had been for some minutes
| (i standing near my right arm and talking, this spirit exclaimed,
jjl with some impatience, “ These children interrupt me!”
I said, in reply, “ If they are my little boys, please let
m them come ! ” When, in an instant, the pattering of little
i(i feet was heard upon the floor, my arm was tightly grasped
j) i by small eager hands, and a baby voice called out “ Mamma,
| (I mamma ! ” while that of the older brother whispered, “ Mother,
jj dear mother! it is I! Harold.” The sweet chorus, Mamma!”
|j I “ Mamma ! ”—“ Dear, dear mother ! ” lasted for some moments,
;;! while the feet were dancing about gleefully and the tones of
(| voice expressed the most joyous excitement. I fear to have
j i worried you by so much narrative, for I know flowers freshly
(! gathered are not more unlike those pressed in a book, lifeless
) | and dry, than were those experiences to me from the poor bald
(| record of them, which is all I can give to you. But when I
) i hear persons deny phenomenal Spiritualism, I feel little sym-
(: pathy with them, for so many of my most precious treasures
)i have come to me from that storehouse. No facts can be
I more to us, spiritually, than we are willing and able to make
them. If the phenomena remain, to our apprehension, mere
sights and sounds, curious and amazing, like empty shells
upon the beach, which we pick up idly only to let them fall
again when we are weary of looking at them, we cannot, of
|: course, become wiser or better by means of these manifesta-
ji tions of spirit power. We cannot grow fat and strong by
) lying in a harvest-field and admiring the grain as it ripens
11 in the sun. It must be reaped, and separated from the chaff,
< | ground into flour, and made into bread, and then eaten and
V assimilated, before it can nourish us. And yet all the
I) | nourishment was stored in those little grains of wheat. It
| j I needed only to be got at and made use of to become the staff
j j of life. What I find most objectionable is, not that physical
i) | manifestations, as such, do not take their right and subordi-
(I nate place with some who have never been in the habit of
!); thinking deeply on any subject (this is inevitable), but that
m so many who consider themselves to have passed beyond the
I) | phenomenal stage, and to be no longer in need of learning
; j | anythijig through the medium of their senses, let go the sub-
| /1 stance to grasp a shadow, so vague and distorted that neither
I they themselves, nor others through them, can possibly be in
any way benefited by their supposed exaltation into the sphere
of philosophy. What they dignify by that name is too often
but the reflection of their own fantastic imaginings, being
devoid alike of sound common sense and of true spiritual
insight. They have left facts behind them, without getting
| hold of truths in their place. In America the (so-called) in-
I ^ i spirational speakers and writers, who prate by the hour of
I the “beautiful spirit-land,” piling up artificial flowers and
tinsel stars of rhetoric in illustration of its charms, would, in
my opinion, be better employed in striving to understand the
simplest of the phenomena, studying humbly and patiently
nj those object lessons which it is not easy for the wisest to
I /1 master. There is a mine of wealth yet unworked, and if we
||| had more earnest, persistent, intelligent seekers after its
i 11 hidden treasures of knowledge, and fewer self-elected teachers,
jj it would be better for Spiritualism. When Balaam’s ass
spoke, it was to serve good purpose; but to-day there are, I
* A paper read before the National Association of Spiritualists.
248
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 23, 1879*
am afraid, many inspired donkeys who might have confined j!
themselves to inarticulate braying without impoverishing the j!
world. i
This may seem severe, but in America we are so over- j (
whelmed by avalanches of this shallow, trashy, and preten- | j
tious talk that I think a little severity in denouncing it is |;
excusable. Far be it from me to depreciate those who really 11
teach the world what Spiritualism means. To such we owe a j j
debt of respect and gratitude which I hope we shall all, and j (
always, be ready and glad to pay; but the good that able | j
workers in the lecture-field and with the pen achieve would j (
be much greater if there were not so many conceited and in- j /
competent talkers and writers, who weary and disgust those j (
who really desire and seek help and light. j)
In England people are (very happily in certain cases for j(
you) rather less fluent than with us—for this fluency gets to j)
be mistaken for eloquence, with disastrous results. j(
Men and women pour out floods, torrents, of words; and j)
there are some who appear content, and even pleased, to sit, j (
like, what Carlyle calls “ passive buckets/’ to receive these j}
gushing, inexhaustible streams, being so astonished and be- j
wildered by the amount they get in a given time that they j)
forget, apparently, to criticise its quality. I
Then, besides this class of talking philosophers, there is that j <
still larger one—the men and the women who have their own j j
little private inspirations from exalted sources. I knew an j)
old lady in America who would hardly go out for a walk, or get j (
up to poke the fire, unless Napoleon Bonaparte signified to j j
her inner consciousness his approval of that particular action, j (
This kind of delusion is the most common and the most mis- j)
chievous, as it seems to me, which Spiritualism has to contend j (
against. Facts are facts, and can hardly fail to prove, in the j)
end, more or less instructive to persons who delight in them ; j (
but these superstitions are altogether hurtful and enervating j)
to the intellectual and moral nature of those who take them 11
for spiritual realities. It is the fantasies I dread, and not i <
the physical facts. Facts! are they not Divine truth taking | (
upon itself visible, audible, tangible forms ? j (
“ Are not these, 0 soul, the vision of Him who reigns ? i (
Is not the vision He ? though He be not that which He seems ? ”
Our heavenly Father has given us the senses for our \\
teachers in this life, and from them we learn as from no other j (
masters. Logic may deceive, and faith may fail, and in our |)
agonized longing we cry aloud:— j (
** 0 for the touch of a vanished hand, ! (
And the sound of a voice that is still ! ” !)
These reach both mind and heart as no mere argument, no |)
plausible theories and no inspired eloquence can. Spiritual- j j
ism without phenomena would be a soul without a body—a | /
mere form of religious belief, and (judging from present ap- ! \
pearances) a peculiarly indefinite form—an amorphous ghost, ] /
hard to recognise ! Swendenborg saw, and strove to dissemi- j (
nate, many of those truths which we must value, and which, j)
through Spiritualism, millions have been led to receive and j (
rejoice in; but he and his followers had only words by which j)
to make these truths manifest to the world—and how few j (
comparatively have come to a knowledge of them through j)
this verbal teaching! Of one tiny rap—one touch of a spirit j \
hand—one whisper of a spirit voice, we may truly say, as ! /
Tennyson says of the little flower:— I (
“ Mower in the crannied wall, i j
I pluck you out of the crannies; !)
Hold you here, root and all, in my hand | (
Little flower—but if I could understand I)
What you are, root and all, and all in all, \)
I should know what God and man is ! ” j)
In our phenomena lie hidden the secrets af spirit and (
matter, of life, death, and immortality ; and only through |)
the careful study of these indubitable facts can we learn to j (
value the problems that now perplex us : for though the lips I;
of the Sphinx be silent to those who, in the inscrutable face j \
and the weird, hybrid shape, see only a strange, fantastic j)
form, behind which lurks no vital mystery, they are ever j(
ready, and waiting, to whisper in the ears of wise and earnest i)
seekers after truth, the words of eternal life ; and they who 1]
learn to answer rightly the questions thus propounded, will j >
be those who, in the end, shall read the riddle of the ages. I (
AN EXTRAORDINARY MESMERIC SEANCE.
Last week’s Truth contains a most interesting article about
a public mesmeric stance, held “ not long ago ” at “ Leaming¬
ton,” in which Mdlle. LucileVas the sensitive. Last autumn
we described one of Mdlle. Lucile’s stances which took place
in the Salon Louis Quinze at Paris, and the narrative in
Truth alleges that the same facts were observed somewhere,
with a few new ones in addition. The writer describes how,
as in Paris, a pin was run through the arm of the sleeping
sensitive, who thus spiked walked about among the observers,
who were satisfied as to the reality of the fact. The writer
adds:—
More wondrous things were to follow. Mdlle. Lucile re¬
ceived orders to stare into the eyes of one of the dandies on
the stage, and she did stare so fixedly that nothing he could
do would divert the direction of her gaze. He put his hand
up; she slapped it down. He tried to turn round, but with
a grasp stronger than a man’s she collared him and wheeled
him round to the position of “ eyes front.” Another of the
crutch gentlemen sought to interpose his body between the
pair, but he was caught round the waist with no more cere¬
mony than a bundle of linen, and sent sprawling backwards
over a chair.
All the others who tried to repeat the experiment were
dealt with in the same fashion. After this M. Diablentrain
selected the toughest and brawniest of the sporting contin¬
gent—a stalwart dragoon officer, six feet high—and made
him stand back to back with Mdlle. Lucile. From that
moment the somnambulist seemed riveted to his shoulder-
blades. It was in vain that he struggled, writhed, jumped,
ran round the stage, sat down, and tried in every way to rid
himself of his burden—the pretty sleeper, with her features
set in an immutable expression of serenity, adhered fast to
him. Finally, the young giant, streaming with perspiration,
lay down on his stomach with his hands spread out; but she
reclined on the top of him with her hands folded across her
breast, coolly, as if she were on a couch.
It is not necessary to recapitulam all the tricks which M.
Diablentrain made his pupil perform. Enough that by the
end of the proceedings the whole audience was convinced
that they had seen physical forces at work which there was
no explaining. The eight gentlemen of the toothpick and
crutch agreed that M. Diablentrain was a “ rum ’un.” There
lingered in them, however, just enough scepticism to make
them desirous of seeing M. Diablentrain perform “ off the
stage; ” so having reached their hotel they hovered about
the doorstep, resolving to invite the Frenchman and his
attractive pupil to have some supper with them, and after¬
wards to perform a queer prank or two in private.
Now, a Frenchman never refuses an invitation to supper
when courteously tendered. When M. Diablentrain de¬
scended from his fly escorting Mdlle. Lucile, who was closely
muffled up, he bowed civilly to the gentlemen who had
assisted him during his performance, and gracefully accepted
the hint of the dragoon, who acted as spokesman, that cham¬
pagne ad libitum and other good things would be spread for
his entertainment.
So soon as he had got to be thoroughly festive, M. Diablen¬
train naturally acceded to the proposals which his host made
him for giving them a little performance in private. “ Yell,
shentlemen,” drawled he, rather unsteadily, “ what you wish
me to do? I send Mademoiselle to sleep again here, and
what next ? Shall we stick three pins in her arm, or will a
carving-knife ? ”
“ No, nothing of that,” answered one of the sportsmen.
“ All we want to know is whether Mam’selle could do to any
chance stranger she met in the streets or in this hotel what
she did to us—stare in the eyes, you know, and get stuck to
one’s back ? ”
“ You doubt it ? ” asked the Frenchman. “Hark! I hear a
noise of wheels. Perhaps it is a traveller coming to the hotel.
Will you that Mademoiselle shall go down and stare at this
traveller, then stick to his back, notwithstanding his screams?”
“If he screams that would be howling fun,” replied the
dragoon, and so concurred they all, laughing.
“Yell, then, silence, shentlemen!” said M. Diablentrain;
May 23, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
249
and, obedient to a wave of bis hand, the French girl pushed
back her chair and looked hard at him. In a moment the
magnetic fluid which this devilish man seemed to possess
had wrought its usual effect, and she was asleep.
Now, it so chanced that the Lord Bishop of Leamington
coming to hold a visitation of his clergy was the occupant of
the carriage whose wheels the mesmerist had heard. His
Lordship was arriving to sleep at the hotel after a hard day’s
preaching, lunching, and dining in divers parishes of his
diocese. Ascending the staircase, followed by his chaplain
and an obsequious array of waiters with luggage, the Bishop
met half-way the fair-haired, open-eyed, somnambulist, who
gazed at him with the fixity of a statue. “ Good evening,”
muttered the Bishop, astonished, and he timidly fingered the
brim of his shovel-hat; but with a sharp slap Mdlle. Lucile
knocked his hand aside, and sent the episcopal headdress flying
over the balusters. “ God bless my soul! ” stammered the
Bishop as he stooped; but grasping him tightly by the
throat, the somnambulist forced his right reverend head up,
and stared at him till he hallooed in terror. Of course his
trusty chaplain rushed at once to the rescue, but a back¬
hander, dealt with no feminine lightness, made him stumble
down three steps, he bawling, “ Oh, oh, my jaw! ” Nothing
better happened to a pair of waiters who held a portmanteau
between them, for this weight upsetting their equilibrium
made them roll from the top of the stairs to the bottom, as
soon as Mdlle. Lucile had pushed one of them on the chest.
Meanwhile, the noise of this unholy shindy attracting many
r esidents in the hotel, the passages and staircase were soon
filled with a crowd of ladies, who recoiled scandalised at seeing
their reverend Bishop—a most austere man—struggling
and whining on the stairs with a girl who* for greater con¬
venience, had now grasped him tight by both ears, and held
his head at arms’ length like a pitcher of water, or a lamp
full of explosive oil.
The gentlemen of the toothpick and crutch had not bar¬
gained for teasing a bishop, and they thought it high time
to stop the fun. But M. Diablentrain had vanished. Op¬
pressed by the heat and the champagne, and losing all
recollection, he had retreated to his bedchamber and bolted
himself in, nor knocks nor supplications could avail to draw
him out. “ To-morrow, shentlemen; no more wine to-night,
thank you,” he kept on repeating; and he might have left
the Bishop in his unpleasant predicament all the night had
not his lordship himself, galvanised by terror, leaped clean
out of Mdlle Lucile’s grasp, and bounded off with the agility
of a football, till he reached a room, whose door he locked.
The somnambulist followed him, and thumped at the door, but
she could not force it; and there she remained hammering
till M. Diablentrain, having at last been drawn out by
coaxings and threats, came out, rubbing his eyes, to break
his spell over her.
Leamington has been talking ever since of this queer
affair. As for M. Diablentrain and his pupil, they made a
pot of money on the next night, and all subsequent nights of
their performance at the Assembly Rooms.
Dr. Slade.—Dr. Slade returned from Sydney about a fortnight since.
During his stay there he has been very fully occupied, and his stances highly
satisfactory. Among those who have been convmced through his medium-
ship is Mr. E. C. Haviland, of The Australian magazine. He accompanied
Dr. Slade to Melbourne, and having written and sworn to a circumstantial
account of his experiences with Dr. Slade, he asked its insertion in The
Argus. That journal refusing to insert it as correspondence, he paid for it
as an advertisement, and it duly appeared in the issue of the 18th February,
occupying one and a quarter columns of small type. From it it appears
that although Mr. Havxland’s visit to Dr. Slade was unpremeditated, his late
wife immediately communicated to him, and gave him tests of her identity.
Subsequently the spirit of his wife’s father, who had been a captain, tied two
knots of a peculiar nature in a handkerchief, which knots were identified as
corresponding exactly with knots he was accustomed to tie when in the
body. Equally startling manifestations occurred when the medium visited
Mr. Haviland’s own house. Dr. Slade will finally leave Melbourne for
Sydney, en route for San Francisco, in the course of a few days. Since his
return here he has not given many sittings, his health having suffered from
overwork whilst at Sydney; but those he has given have been of a very
satisfactory nature, writing between closed slates (in two instances without
the slate being touched by the medium), test messages, the levitation of
chairs, table, and walking-sticks without contact, and many other marvellous
phenomena. It is Dr. Slade’s intention to pay another visit to Austraha in
the course of one or two years, when the reputation he now leaves behind
him will ensure his meeting with large success, and adding still further to
the Spiritualistic ranks.—Harbinger of I/ight (Melbourne, March 1st).
!A DEATH-BED VISION.
An old man died tbe other nigbt—died in bis bed. The
papers say he was a poor old man, friendless, living on
| charity, and that his life had been drear and full of bitter¬
ness. The old man died alone, the darkness of night hiding
the darkness of death until his eyes opened to the brightest,
| fairest vision human eyes ever beheld. There was a kind and
tender smile on his pale face when they found him dead.
| Men wondered at it, knowing how sadly and hopelessly he
had fought the battle of life, and women whispered to each
other:—“ Perhaps an angel’s hand smoothed down his grey
^! locks as the dampness of death gathered on his wrinkled
11 forehead.”
jl There were men there who had given him money, and
jl women who had fed him. They knew that he was old and
11 weak and poor, but they had not thought of his dying, and
( i his white face shocked them. They had not stopped to think
j | that one could not go on fighting hunger and poverty for ever.
h The old man’s heart was like a flint. He did not seem
j! thankful for the food given him, and sometimes he was harsh
(j to the children as they blocked his path. But when men,
11 women, and children walked softly in to look upon the dead,
(| they forgave him everything, forgot everything, and said:—
“ He was a poor old man, and we sorrow that his life was not
(! full of sunshine.”
}| It was not strange that the face of the dead wore that
(I smile. When the human heart had been embittered against
| j the world—when an old man has been wronged by men,
(| followed by hunger and driven to despair, he cannot die with
j j that burden on his soul. Heaven’s gates must be opened a
11 little to let the glorious light of Paradise shine into the dying
; I man’s eyes, and soften his heart until he will say, “ Men have
\ | not dealt by me as they should, but I forgive each and all.”
When the old man awoke in the darkness and felt the
(| touch of death at his heart there were no tears in his eyes,
)| and he grimly rejoiced that his aching limbs were to find
(| rest at last. He did not care whether any one missed him,
)j or what men would say when they entered his desolate room
\ I and found his corpse on the bed of straw. Then the angels
)| threw back the gates and the light came. They came with
V! it, singing so sweetly and tenderly that the old man started
Ij up in fear that he might lose a single note. They walked
j around him, they floated above him, and all the while his
hard heart was growing softer and filling with such feelings
as it had not known for years.
“Men have sneered at your grey locks and trembling
)\ limbs, but you must forgive them,” whispered the angels.
1“ I can—I do! ” he replied.
“ Poverty has oppressed you, misfortune has walked with
you, woe and sorrow have been your companions, but you
| must not blame the world,” they whispered.
“ I forgive all men,” he answered.
“ Behold the light from heaven—listen to the music which
| is never heard outside the golden gates except by the dying
)\ —look yonder and tell us what you see.”
Peering into the glorious light, while the film of death
jj gathered over his eyes, the old man read:—“None so old
(j and poor and hopeless that heaven’s gates are shut against
11 them.”
A spirit soared away with the flood of light, and it was
)j only clay which the men and women looked upon next day.
I They wondered at the tender smile on the white face—they
had not heard the music nor seen the flood of glory which
lighted up the bare old room.—ReHgio-Philosophical Journal.
| Captain John James’s book, Mesmerism, with Hints for Beginners,
was published last Tuesday.
! Dr. Carter Blake’s lectures at the British Museum will commence next
Tuesday. Supplementary discourses will also be given by H. St. Chad
)j Boscawen, Esq., M.A., on “The Bronze Gates of Balawat, Assyriaby Dr.
Is B,. S. Charnock, F.S.A., late president of the London Anthropological
I Society, on “ The Populations and Antiquities of Cyprus,” and by others.
| There is a great want in London, just now, of a medium who obtains
manifestations in daylight, and a general desire exists for opportunities of
examining new orders of physical phenomena. Cabinets are gradually fall¬
ing into disuse, to the great advantage of mediums, investigators, and
Spiritualists. Strong mediums obtain good materialisation manifestations
wnile they are held by both hands at dark stances, and the chief effect of
using a cabinet is to expose them to suspicion and to strain the faith of
observers.
250
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 23, 1879.
A LETTER TO A VISITOR.
(To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist,”)
Sir,—At the risk of again bringing before the notice of Spiritualists a
personal matter, I beg of you to publish the enclosed letter received from a
member of Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists, as
I am ignorant how far he was authorised by the Council to write thus to an
occasional caller at the rooms of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists.
My acquaintanceship with Mr. Bennett was of the slightest and most
official character; and so far as I remember,' this was the first note I ever
received from him.
As a matter of fact, I have not, as was my custom, frequently visited the
rooms during the last two months, nor was it my intention to do so, for
reasons which are, I trust, intelligible to my friends. I can only call to
remembrance two occasions on which I have stepped inside the rooms of the
British National Association of Spiritualists since the date I have given.
But on those occasions the traditional courtesy was extended to me by the
officials in charge; and I hope that other inquirers will continue to receive
the same.—Yours truly, C. Carter Blake.
The Mansion, Bichmond-hill, near London, April 28th, 1879.
Dear Sir,—There is a feeling among some of the members of the
B.N.A.S., and it is shared by more than a few, that the influence of your
visits to the reading-room is to a certain extent prejudicial to the interests
of the Association. I should feel very sorry for you to feel personally
annoyed by any expression of the kind; and it is with the hope of avoiding
this that I venture to send you a few lines, which I hope you will kindly
accept in the spirit in which they are intended.—I am, yours faithfully,
Edward T. Bennett.
Dr. Carter Blake.
RELIGIOUS MANIA.
From u Mind and Matter ” {Philadelphia), May \Qth.
On the 4th instant, public attention was arrested by the announcement
that Mr. Charles E. Freeman had, while labouring under religious delusion,
taken the life of his little daughter, at Pocasset, Mass. For this insensate,
cruel act, he and his wife were arrested and taken to Barnstable, where they
were lodged in jail. While under arrest, and on his way to the latter place,
Freeman addressed the passengers in the car, loudly reiterating his con¬
victions that he had obeyed a divine mandate, his wife seconding him, and
both expressed no anxiety as to the future. A correspondent of The Times,
of Philadelphia, writing from Boston, says :—
“Freeman was arraigned at Barnstable to-day, in company with his wife.
Both maintained their composure and insist that God will justify their
action and relieve them from all human penalties. Freeman says that for
thirty-six hours it had been impressed upon him that he must kill one of his
family, but he was doubtful whether it should be himself, his wife, his oldest
daughter, or the little girl. Finally the Lord made it clear to him that it
must be the little girl. He did not tell his wife at first. He waked up
at half-past two on Thursday morning and told his wife what he was going
to do. They talked it over together and both agreed that it was right.
They then knelt by the bed and prayed. He did not tell his wife at first,
because Abraham did not tell his wife when he went to sacrifice Isaac. After
they had agreed to kill the child, both went into the room where the two
little girls were sleeping together. The man went out to the shop and pro¬
cured a large sheath-knife with a long blade, singing all the way out and
back. He said he never felt so happy in his life. He set the lamp in the
chair and his wife stood by the bed looking on. He turned the bed-clothes
down to expose the child, and stabbed her in the left side. She awoke,
turned toward her father, stretched up her arms, and said, ‘ Oh, father.’ He
took her and held her till she died, which was in about five minutes. The
older girl became partially awake, and the mother carried her out of the
room before she knew of her sister’s death. Freeman then got into bed
with the dead child in his arms and stayed until after daylight; then he
dressed and went to the station for the mail, which he carries. Meeting
Alvin Wing there, he asked him to notify the Second Adventists in the
neighbourhood of a meeting at his house at three o’clock that afternoon.
The Adventists came, supposing it was a farewell meeting before Freeman
went on his tour as preacher. In the meeting. Freeman told the story of
killing the child, and showed the body to them all. Strange as it may seem,
they all kept the matter secret, and told no one after the meeting dispersed.
“ Great indignation exists against Freeman and all the Adventists. The
latter stick together, and even now have the effrontery to defend Freeman.
Freeman said before his arrest that if those who do not believe in God
would come to his house they would see the wonderful works of Almighty
God; that the child would be raised on Sunday morning and would help
him preach. The extremest fanaticism, almost beyond belief, seems to
inspire the Adventists. When one of the neighbours first saw Mrs. Freeman,
she answered all inquiries about Freeman by saying: ‘ The Lord will take
care of that; Abraham’s God will raise her.’ Freeman says he never felt so
tenderly toward his children as on Wednesday evening wnen they were put
to bed, and he kissed them before he struck the fatal blow. He hoped tnat
God would stay hisJiand, as he did Abraham’s, but since the death of his
child, he says that the revelation has come that the child will be raised; if
she is not raised by Sunday morning he will despair. Freeman is thirty-four
years old. Before he became an Adventist he was a Methodist probationer.
The officers have the knife with, which the murder was committed. Mrs.
Freeman is slight in form, and thirty-two years of age. Neither of the two
show any fear. Freeman said he had a chance of making a convert by killing
his girl, and thinks he is a second Abraham; says he loves his daughter
better than himself. Mrs. Freeman echoes all her husband says. Many of
the neighbours of Freeman sustain him in his course, many of them being
well-to-do farmers. An effort will be at once made to arrest some of those
who were present at the meeting at Freeman’s house on the charge of being
accessories to the deed.”
(PERPETUAL DIRECTORS.
! Seventeen retiring members of the Council of the National Association
| of Spiritualists have been nominated for re-election, two other Spiritualists
] have been nominated in addition, and the system is such that the members
I are obliged to elect all the nineteen, whether they like to or not.
j The reason of this is, that the number of seats vacant is twenty-six, and
j nineteen candidates only having been nominated, there is no election, and
I they will walk straight in. .
We do not say that they are not all very suitable persons, but point out
I the utter helplessness of the members, under the present regulations, to select
the managers.
To have brought about a contested election for one seat only, it would
have been necessary to have nominated eight more candidates, seven of
| whom the members would have been obliged to appoint to fill up the twenty-
six vacancies, but the additional man would have caused a contested election
I for a single seat.
I All tms arises from a small public body having an enormous Council of
j seventy-eight members, one-third of whom retire every year, and are eligible
for re-election. Most of these are absentees at the meetings, the real
government being carried on by twelve or fifteen, who attend regularly, and
four-fifths of whom have rendered no public services of importance to
| Spiritualism, and are almost unknown to the majority of the members.
| The remedy would be to reconstruct the Council by reducing it to, say,
twenty members in all, after which a general election would place in office
those in whom the members at large have confidence, and who are known
i for their public services.
I There is wide discontent with the present system of management among
the members. Mr. Martin Smith, Mr. Massey, Mr. FabyanDawe, and Mrs.
I Makdougall Gregory have left the Association altogether, several others
; have resigned their seats on the Council, being afraid to have their names
j committed to its acts, various private members have written to us express-
| ing their desire to have a new organization, one or another calls upon us
I almost daily expressing dissatisfaction, and for three »r four montns past
j increase in the number of members has been practically at a standstill, in
i this the best part of the year.
| All could be put right, and harmony in an otherwise good organization be
i established, by placing the whole case in the hands of the members, and
| having a general election, resulting in a Council of reasonable size. But as
i inaugurating a free and full election would be a “ happy despatch ” on the
I part of three-fourths the present working rulers, no such highly
| necessary step is likely to originate in that quarter. Members outside the
| Council do not care to take action, because of the inharmony and abuse
| which would be incurred in doing such useful work, so there is a dead-lock,
I and a widespread want of enthusiasm and interest in the welware of the
| organization. The annual general meeting next Tuesday will probably be a
{ thin one, and the members of-the Council will have it pretty much to them-
I selves. There is no power to do anything at the meeting, no special notices
j of motion having been given in.
] It is a great pity that the members at large cannot put everything right
by means of a general election. Something ought to be done to abolish
I the prevalent discontent and chilling apathy.
I In The Spiritualist of May 9 th will be found a series of fourteen
I motions, now entered on the minute-book of the Council and signed by the
I Chairman, the decisions of the Council over all of which we have asserted
to be opposed to the interests of the members at large. It was our bounden
duty to point this out, and the official motions are there for the members
! to examine for themselves. But the Council, in return, is doing The
Spiritualist all the harm it conveniently can. After its last meeting, it
ji resolved to cut down its advertisements in this journal to next to nothing
at the expiration of the present term, but had previously made us an offer
almost worthless to a weekly journal with a circulation, but adapted at
j every point to the requirements of a monthly journal with no circulation at
all. The offer was probably made to us as a matter of show, for the purpose
i of being rejected. It also gave us notice to quit the little branch office we
j have on the Association’s premises, on the ground that more rent would be
I] gained by letting all the rooms together. But now it is not letting them
! together, and is accepting the same rent as offered for them before and from
the same tenant, namely^ ,£60 a year from Mrs. Maltby. The General
Purposes Committee did not even think it necessary to make any explana¬
tion or to apologise to the Council for the difference between its former
estimate of increased rental and the present result of a heavy loss by the
departure of a tenant.
Dr. Carter Blake.—Dr. Carter Blake, whose British Museum lectures
were recently honoured by a notice in the Times, is lecturer on Coinpara-
I tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital, and was formerly Secretary to the
Anthropological Society of London. He has often publicly attested the
genuineness of the phenomena of Spiritualism, but we believe is in doubt
as to their source or sources. He has done a vast amount of honorary
I work for the National Association of Spiritualists, and recently worked
I daily for one or two months in drawing up a most useful catalogue of the
books in the library of the Association. He frequently took charge of
| (| semi-public stances under the direction of the Seance Committee, and in
) | that responsible position helped to satisfy strangers, quieted enemies, and
;) | was always on good terms with the medium. He has acted on the Research
] l j Committee since its formation, and was present when it obtained most of
| \ ] its best tests. He explained to foreigners the objects of the Association ;
{> i and when Don Rafael Parga, of the Spanish South American Society of
I)! Bogota, was in London, he received him, and translated his conversation
j(] for others. Published papers show that he has studied Spiritualism at
| (! intervals from the year 1856, and he was publicly one of the truest friends
n! of Dr. Slade, attesting in print wonderful manifestations he had seen in his
!>j presence, standing by him when he was attacked in a police-court, and
j} | volunteering to appear as a witness in his defence. Dr. Carter Blake is a
5'1 Catholic.
May 23, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
251
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
The following paragraph from The Medical Press and Circular of May
1st, is headed "Spiritualistic Quackery ”:—
“ A sickening exhibition of the most unblushing quackery is being weekly
made in certain so-called Spiritualistic newspapers. These contain, many of
them, numerous advertisements from persons who arrogate power of the
most absurd description to themselves; one, more beheving in the credulity
of his victims, or more despicably daring in his pretensions, announces
‘healing by the laying on of hands,’ and ‘magnetised fabric for the allevia¬
tion or cure of disease, 5s. per packet; renewal, 5s.’ Another advertises,
* Developing and healing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances' Anything more atrociously disgusting than
this array of rascally cheating it would be difficult to conceive; and in view
of the grave harm that may be daily inflicted on the innocent but super¬
stitious victims of their base deceit, it becomes a pressing duty to devise
some effectual means of opposing a system vicious in intent, and degrad¬
ing in fulfilment. It is a disgrace that the state of our law is such as to
permit these vampires to pursue their course unimpeded; but this being so,
it is the more a duty that the profession should in some- way expose the
serious nature of the practices that are carried on by these human leeches.
We purpose devoting some attention to the subject in a series of articles
and exposures.”
All the mesmeric healers we know anything about have, like the late Drs-
Elliotson and Esdaile, in many cases cured inveterate diseases by mesmerism
where the ordinary medical professors had failed; they can produce plenty
of certificates of this, and have influential private supporters quite educated
and critical enough to sift evidence and observe facts. The Medical Press,
in its officiousness and want of knowledge, will merely raise a vast amount
of prejudice against the medical profession among a large body of people if
it begins an attack on healing mediums. Medical orthodoxy is getting
tyrannical, especially in killing children wholesale by erysipelas brought on
by vaccination, and then entering on the certificates used for statistical
purposes “ died of erysipelas,” and omitting all mention of the initial act
which resulted in death.
With one part of The Medical Press paragraph we agree—namely, that
about “magnetised fabrics.” In the first place, magnetism has nothing
whatever to do with the subtle forces at work in mesmerism, and, in the
second, mesmerised fabrics (supposing them to exert a healing influence on
people who are psychically sensitive) are so cheaply produced that they might
very well be supplied for nothing, instead of by their sale offering tempta¬
tion to people who possess no healing power, to imitate the financial part
of the system, and to defraud the public. For this reason we have always
refused to insert advertisements about “ magnetised fabrics ” when they
have been tendered to The Spiritxcalist.
Nevertheless, both in ancient and modern times, people have been cured
of diseases occasionally, by healing mediums sending “ aprons to the sick.”
Doctors know that infectious diseases might be transmitted in this way, but
they are ignorant about the transmission of infectious health. Erom the
scientific interest of the subject we shall be glad if independent observers in
private life will send us for publication, with their names and addresses
appended, certificates about the cure of diseases from a distance by the
method just stated.
The Medical Press seems to be horror-stricken by the words, “ Terms
modified to suit circumstances.” Perhaps the public may not regard the
system of charging a labouring man and a millionaire at the same rates, from
the professional and trades-union point of view of the critic now under
notice.
SALEM WITCHCRAFT.
Under the above heading the Newbury port Merrimac Journal of the
5th instant informs us that “Rev. Dr. Fiske closed a series of lectures
before the Athenaeum last week with a description of the feeling, humiliation,
and bitter remorse which followed the persecution and execution of the (so-
called) Salem witches.” The following extract from the discourse will give
our readers some idea of the “ repentance ” that came too late :—
“With the change of views came bitter repentance. The judges made
their public confession; the jury made their confession; ministers and
churches made their confession. The general court made its confession by
appointing a day for public fasting, humiliation, and prayer in view of what
had happened. And it was on that Fast Day that Judge Sewall, whose
conduct especially challenges our respect and admiration, rose in his pew in
the old South Church, in the presence of a large assembly, and proceeding to
the pulpit handed to the minister a written confession, in which he acknow-
edged and deplored the error into which he had been led, and prayed for
the forgiveness of God and of his people, and earnestly requested the con-
regation to unite with him in devout supplications that it might not bring
own the Divine displeasure upon himself, his family, or his country.
During the reading of this paper the good man stood with bow;ed head and
tearful eye; and during the remainder of his life he annually kept a day of
fasting and prayer, in which he renewed his penitence and confession for the
part he took in the great delusion.”
No wonder “ the sober second thought ” of these people changed their
views and brought bitter repentance, when the fact became generally known
that twenty-four innocent persons were put to death in Salem (1692) as
witches, who were simply spiritual mediums. The heavens are again
opened, and light and knowledge are flooding the earth; yet bigotry is)not
dead, and the poor mediums of this age are persecuted in many ways.
They need defenders more than ever at this very time, for they are martyrs,
more or less, every one of them. Spiritualists, protect your mediums, if
you desire God to protect you.—Banner of Light.
CorresponDence.
| [Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometbnes express opinions diametrically
! opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited commu/nications cannot be
returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which are
not anonymous.] ;  :— .. .. f •
THE CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
I Sir,—I desire to thank very heartily, through your pages, the kind friends
| who, sympathizing with our Cambridge work, have given us help by sending
| us worthful books and encouraging letters, since my time will not allow me
i to thank them individually. I long that we may go forward together
bearing the shield that Florence bore long ago, parted pale gules and
I argent, head and heart defending the things that we are certam about,
I leaving opinions to take care of themselves. Thus and thus only will
I spiritual knowledge be increased to us, making good use of what we have
already. J. A. Campbell.
SUNDAY MEETINGS.
Sir,—1 see in the report of Steinway Hall meetings, several tests were
given to which no response is made. I will, for the benefit of the public,
state that they were recognised, and the people came to me directly after
service. Many of these tests are of too private a nature to appear, even in
print, while many of those receiving tests have a decided objection to having
their names brought forward in any way, which is not to be wondered at,
since Spiritualism is so little understood.
I will only add that these meetings have been attended by the greatest
success from the first, and will Continue for the present.
J. William Fletcher.
Saturday, 4, Bloomsbury-place, W.C.
|j LETTERS PROM <l OUTSIDERS.”
) I Sir,—I read “ Outsider’s ” letter in to-day’s Spiritualist with much
(; satisfaction. It so completely embodies my own views, and I beheve those
v j of a large number of earnest inquirers standing, as it were, on the “ border-
) | land,” that I can only heartily echo his wish that some of our leading
) | Spiritualists should give us more aid in our search after truth.
(i Lectures are valuable, especially in arresting popular attention to the
(] subject of “ Spiritualism,” but it seems to me that we require more seances,
j j or circles where, on payment of a moderate fee to cover expenses, they
) | whose attention has already been interested may, on showing bona-fides,”
(| attend and judge for themselves.
j j Outsider asks for “ facts; ” but if I were to give in detail the results of
\ j my own limited experience they would, 1 fear, possess but little interest to
) i many of your advanced readers, who would probably look upon them as the
) ] mere A B C of the subject. If, however, you can spare me space to mention
(| briefly a few of the facts that have come under my own notice it will best
(j illustrate the need and present position of myself, and I cannot help thinking
) j many other “ outsiders.”
) | About two years ago the subject was brought before my notice in con-
(| versation with a friend, in the course of which it transpired that he had seen
' ] some most extraordmary phenomena, and was himself—though he had never
I! made any professional use of the fact—a medium. I was greatly surprised,
I for I knew him to be a truthful, clear-headed man, and, moreover, I had no
I right to treat his belief as a delusion, for we were equals in position, I being
I head-master of a London Board school, and he holding a similar post in a
I Church school in the same district. He was willing to be tested, and
accordingly we arranged a small circle, and met at my house. We soon
obtained “ results.”
\ \ Incidents that had occurred in my family twenty years before, and which
\ | could only have been known to my wife and myself, were given with names
) I and dates in a marvellously accurate manner by means of a code of signs
) i shown by “ table tilting.”
(i I was literally “ staggered,” and resolved to follow the matter up.
(j We met after this frequently, and though at times mistakes were made,
»| always with increasing success.
> | . One incident I shall never forget. Only three, Mr A (the medium),
f | Mr. B , a gentleman of position in the parish, and myself, were sitting at
(| a small work-table. The spirit of a dancing-girl was said to be present, and
J j after sundry tiltings of the table it began to keep time by tapping on the
I floor with its three legs, and showing a disposition to cross the room. We
| allowed it to do so, and followed it, simply keeping our fingers lightly pressed
on the top, when it literally danced round the two rooms, keeping time with
its “ one, two, three ”—“ one, two, three,” in a fashion that would have
I satisfied the most exacting M.C. Being somewhat suspicious of my friend,
i the medium, he left the table at my request, and sat at the further end of
i the rooms apparently unconcerned. Still the dmce went on with but little
Ii decrease of vigour, Mr. B and myself barely touching the table with
| our fingers until we were obliged to give it up.
After this Mr. B became developed, as my friend Mr. A termed
it, into a writing medium.
At first his whole frame would seem to be convulsed, and he would strike
the table so rapidly and violently that we were sometimes obliged to hold
his arm to prevent his doing himself injury; and on our placing a sheet of
paper on the table and a pencil in his hand, he would strike the table so
I fiercely that the lead was literally crushed. After a time, however, his arm
(j seemed to become more under control, until at length we used to get short
11 encouraging sentences, written in a peculiar jerky hand; and he assured
(I us (and I who know him well beheve him imphcitly) that the words were
Ii written apart from any effort of his own will, by some power which seemed
j to make his hand form the letters required.
I am sorry to say that these “ sittings ” used to exhaust him so much
that, acting on advice, he gave them up, and left us with regret. My
| friend, the “medium,” accepted a post in another part of England; and I
I hear from him now and then as to the communion he has with spirits, apart
1 from any Connection with table or circle,
252
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 23, 1879.
So our little circle was broken up, and I have not amongst my own | j
personal friends those whom I should care to ask to pursue the investigation i)
of the subject in a proper spirit. It
Tor myself, I must candidly confess that beyond a slight, pleasant, thrilling j (
sensation, which always seems to pervade my body when at the table, 1 j {
have only once felt any direct “ control,” and I may say en passant that l I)
am of anything but a nervous or hysterical “ temperament.” i)
We had been sitting at the table one evening, when without any apparent j (
cause—for we had been unusually cheerful—I commenced “ crying.” The i j
tears rolled down my cheeks, and (as one of my friends remarked) “I |j
blubbered like a child.” After the sitting we went for a short walk, when i)
feeling a strange, but not unpleasant sort of influence about my forehead, i (
I stopped, placed my hand on my friend’s shoulder, and again “ sobbed ! j
bitterly.” I felt much relieved afterwards, but no clue was given then or j j
since, and the matter has remained a mystery. I)
Now, Mr. Editor, I am one of the most non-lachrymosal mortals in the j (
world, so much so, that in solemn moments of my life, when my deepest I \
feelings have sought relief, I have been unable to shed a tear. I)
This, then, is my position. I have passed through the phases in which i)
this subject is treated with indifference, ridicule, contempt, or idle curiosity, \ /
and I stand at this stage of my investigation perfectly unprejudiced, : (
willing to accent ?* Spiritualism ” as a Divine truth if I can get further j >
proof, equally willing to accept any sound scientific reasons for such phe- |)
nomena as—although I have given deep consideration to such theories as j /
“hysteria” and “unconscious cerebration”—are at present beyond my
ken. j
My anxious desire is to " go on.” I)
I nave read much of the literature of Spiritualism, and as far as I have j)
gone have found nothing in its doctrines antagonistic to revealed religion as i (
generally received.
But truth is great, and it must prevail; and if in the course of my i)
investigation 1 should find that its doctrines are true, and that they do j)
clash with my present religious convictions, why, so much the worse for 11
my orthodoxy. . I)
As a mere novice, therefore, I place myself beside “ Outsider ” and his j)
friends, and ask for more “light”—for more ready means of gaining it i)
from those who have tested the theory of “ Spiritual communion,” and j (
found it to be true. Eabnest. 1 \
London, E., May 16, 1879. i <j
Price Three Shillings and Sixpence. Imperial 8vo. Eed edges. | (
“RIFTS IN THE YEIL.” |
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best j)
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a j \
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens, i j
The book also contains some j)
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
This book is one of the cheapest and most elegant works ever published j /
in connection with Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London. ! /
Will be Published in a few Days, j)
Cloth, Crown 8vo, Bed Edges, Price Five Shillings and Sixpence. Post Free j)
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
The Book is full of evidence of Spirit-Identity. | S
The Superfine Edition, bound in half calf. Eight Shillings and Sixpence, i)
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Just Published, j j
SPIRIT-IDENTITY. |
By“M.A. (Oxon).” |
Cloth 8vo, red edges, price 5s. post free. I)
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. | \
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. ; I
These poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare j /
literary excellence. i (
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By tlie Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbband). |)
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free illustrated with diagrams) i \
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF. |
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London. ^'
Now ready, the Second and Concluding Volume of the
MECHANISM OF MAN:
LIFE, MIND, SOUL.
A POPULAR INTRODUCTION TO MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY.
By EDWARD W. COX, S.L.,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Vol, II. Treating of the Mechanism in Action, Price 12s. 6d.
Vol. I. may be had, price 10s. 6d.; the work complete, 22s. 6d.
CONTENTS :
Part II.—THE MECHANISM IN ACTION.
Book I.—The Normal Action of the Mechanism of Man.—Chapter 1. Intro¬
ductory ; 2. The Action of the Material Mechanism in Health; 3. Of Un¬
conscious Cerebration ; 4. Of Mental Sympathy and Communion ; 5. Body,
Mind, and Soul in Health.
BookH.—The Abnormal Actionof theMechanism.—Chapter 1. Introduction
—The Psychology of the Future ; 2. How to be Pursued ; 3. Objections and
Objectors; 4 Precautions in Research ; 5. Prepossession and Dominant Idea ;
6. How we Know; 7. Scientific Evidence; 8. The Plan Proposed.
Book III.—Of Sleep and Dream.—Chapter 1. What Sleep Is; 2. The
Physiology of Sleep; 3. The Mental Condition of Sleep ; 4. The Seat of
Sleep; 5. Of Dream; 6. The Material Mechanism of Dream; 7. The Psycho¬
logy of Dream; 8. The Phenomena of Dream ; 9. The Philosophy of Dream ;
10. Conclusions.
BookIV.—The Phenomena of Delirium and Insanity.—Chapter 1. Delirium;
2. Insanity.
Book V. The Phenomena of Somnambulism.—Chapter 1. Introduction ; 2.
Somnambulism ; 3. Natural Somnambulism ; 4. Artificial Somnambulism ;
5. ThePhencmena of Artificial Somnambulism ; 6. The Physiology of Somnam¬
bulism ; 7. The Psychology of Somnambulism.
Book VI.—Supersensuous Perception.—Introduction; Chapter 1. The
Phenomena of Supersensuous Perception ; 2. The Physiology and Psychology
of Supersensuous Perception.
Book VII.—Trance.—Introduction; Chapter 1. The Phenomena of Trance;
2. The Physiology and Psychology of Trance.
Book VIII.—Psychism. — Introduction; Chapter 1. Objections and
Objectors; 2, The Witnesses; 3. Psychic Force; 4. The Methods of Inves¬
tigation ; 5. The Phenomena of Psychism ; 6. The Psychic; 7. The Physio¬
logy of Psychic Force; 8. The Directing Intelligence ; 9. Phenomena of
Psychism; 10. More Phenomena of Psychism; 11. Other Phenomena of
Psychism; 12. Communicated Phenomena; 13. The Physiology and Psy¬
chology of Psychism.
Book IX.—The Argument.—Chapter 1. The Summing up; 2. Conclusions.
LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiri-
tuali m, and setting forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BY
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions on Religious
Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : Its Place
and Function — Religion and Dogma — Psychism and Spiritualism — The
Philosophy of Inspiration and Revelation—Christianity: Its Place and Human
Elements.
London ; Trubner and Co., 67 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges,
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By Captain John James
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an author who has had thirty years’ experience in
Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
May 23, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHO¬
LOGY, MESMERISM, ANTHROPO¬
LOGY, AND BIOLOGY.
Price Five Shillings. Or. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” os
PSYCHOGRAPHY.
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has
been rented on the premises of the National Association of
Spiritualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist News¬
paper and publishing business are not in any way connected
with each other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT-
TTALISM, by William Crooks, F.R.S. The best work
ever published to scientifically demonstrate the reality
of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to
reveal to him by vision events connected with the early
history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus
saw the Mastodon and other extinct animals as if living
and moving before them; they likewise saw the scenes
by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions
of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation
of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engrav¬
ings, drawn by the sensitives as the visions passed
before their eyes. The substance of a review of this
book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there
is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient inteUigenoe to select clairvoyants
who would not cheat him. The question as to the
reliability of the narratives therefore narrows itself down
to the question of the reliability of clairvoyance, which,
when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate
results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary
communication shoula bo established, it will be by
means of clairvoyance or some other of the latent and
little understood spiritual powers in man. Three vols.
SMs.; or 8s. per single volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.”
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ IL „
The Seer. „ HI. „
The Reformer. „ IV. „
The Thinker. „ V. ,,
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis
Arabula, or Divine Guest .
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology
Answers to Rver-recurrring Questions from the People.
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . .
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health . ,
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda)
PhUoeophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Conoerning Religion .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse .
The Inner Life: or. Spirit Mysteries Exp lain e(
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician; or Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ...
2 0
3 6
6 0
7 0
7 0
6 0
6 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS.
Oriental Religion (Johnson) . . . ,24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little
book, recommended by Tub Spiritualist news¬
paper • . . . . . .2
Keys of the Creeds . . . . ,6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing
interesting particulars and legends relating to
Buddhism . . . . . .14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . 12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . , .16
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale
Owen • . . . . . .7
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the
Zulus, by the Rev Henry Gallaway, M.D. In six
parts . . . . . . .16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into
English, with Preliminary Essays and Explana¬
tory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Soperstitions
interpreted by Comparative Mythology, by John
Fiske, M.A 10
A was-1-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an
Indian Officer . . . . . .6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into
English from the Chinese Classes, by James Legge,
D.D., LL.D 12
On Exalted States of (he Nervous System; an (alleged)
Explanation of the Mysteries of Modern Spirtual-
ism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital
Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anaes¬
thesia, and Nervous Congestions, by Robert H.
Col Iyer, M.D. . . . * . . .12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P.
Brown, Secretary of the Legation of the United
States of America at Constantinople . . 1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia,
North Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin
Thorpe. In three vols. . . . .18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahom-
med. Translated into English immediately from
the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10
0
6
0
0
0
6
0
6
0
6
6
0
0
6
0
6
6
Illustrated with Diagrams.
SYNOPSIS OP CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubb£—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That attested by the senses :—
1. —Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Beporter, Mr. James Barns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. —Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr.
George King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls,
Baroness Von Vay, G. H. Aoshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.
Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan, Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John
Wetherbee, H. B. Storer, 0. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee
with Watkins.
II. —From the Writing of Languages unknown to the
Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence ef Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr.
Blackburn (Slade) ; Dutch, German, French, Spanish,
Portuguese (Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame
Blavatsky (Watkins); Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timay-
enis (Watkins); Chinese (Watkins).
III. —From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Prepa¬
ration of the Writing
Psychics and Conjurers Contrasted ; Slade before the
Research Committee of the British National Association of
Spiritualists. Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.;
Evidence of—Rev. J. Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J.
Seaman (Slade); Writing within Slates securely screwed
together—Evidence of Mrs. Andrews and J. Mould; Dicta¬
tion of Words at the Time of the Experiment—Evidence of—
A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P.,
Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld, M.D., Miss
Kisliugbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside a
Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of
Circumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck
were conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with
White Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the subject of the
Prosecution of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and
Professor Barnett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: its Mode of Opera'ion—^Evidence
of C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Oculist’s Theory j The Spirit¬
ualist’s Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Appa¬
ritions—The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox,
J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers, D. D. Hume, and
Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II. — Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—Emerson
—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at|Moravia, N.Y.,
and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—
Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium ship
of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Ex¬
periments—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialec¬
tical Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Sub¬
stances? — Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits —
Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Descartes—Spinoza
—Herbert Spencer—Swedenborg— Proofs of Spirit Power
over Matter—Testimony of S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit — The Senses—
Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine
of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship — Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. 0. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes,
Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dumphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmore,
Mrs, Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—Conclusive Experi¬
ments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr.
C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chaptbb X.—Materialisation Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seer-
ship —Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge
— Bacon — Luther—Calvin — Plutarch—Charles Bonnet-
Materialisation of Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in
God — Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine
Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—
The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Mora'ity — Sin
Punishes Itself — A Moral Creed — The Teachings of
Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner— Objections
to Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe—
James Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—
Concluding Reflections.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
iii
Price 6s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“ RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritu¬
alists. A useful book to place in the public libraries, and to
present or send to those who are unacquainted with Spiritu¬
alism. It contains much about the religious aspect of
Spiritualism (given through the writing mediumship of
“ M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of the most refined and elegant
works ever printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through
the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens.
How the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist,
Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a Secret •- A Majestic Mind
Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peck-
craft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments.
VUI.—The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon
(Miss Treheme) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-medium¬
ship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XL—Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVT.—Truth. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII.—Thy Love. By Florence Marrj at.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von
Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritual¬
ism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna. Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism. By
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.. Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kisling-
bury from the German of Schiller.
XXVII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Chris¬
tianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M. A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat,
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wortherington
(Ennes fallen).
XXXVH.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritu¬
alism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in
India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic )
by Emily Kislingbury.
XXX ix.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIU. —Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation
to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLIV. —Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
Formerly issued Quarterly at 2s. 6d., is now published
Monthly at 6d., or 7s. per annum in advance, post free.
CONTENTS FOR HAY.
The Existing Breach between Modern Culture and the
Popular Faith; by John S. Farmer—An English Seeress of
the 17th Century; by J. W. F.—Spiritualism in Chili; by
Perigrinus—Some Spiritual Experiences of the Celebrated.
Italian Physician, Jerome Cardan; by A. M. H. W.—A Priori
Proof Ofithe Probable Truth of Spiritualism; by Alex. Munro,
M.D.—'Progression by Antagonism; by M.—The Future of
Spiritualism; by Thomas Shorter.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Glasgow : Hay Nisbet and Co., 62, Ropework-lane.
P. 0. Orders payable to Hay Nisbet and Co., as above.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can
be given. 6 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
iv
Just Published.
Price Five Shillmgs. Crown 8vo,
richly gilt,'
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. EAR BISON'.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton
and the Author.
CoNYENTTS.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Aiithor.—2. The Song of the News¬
paper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The
Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.
—7. How Hadji A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter
from Hadji A1 Shacabac, a gentleman who visited London
on business connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ah Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at
Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gardener.—
11. “Fast Falls the E ventide.”—12. Our Raven.—18. Material¬
istic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Photographer.—16. How
to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of
the Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegimg.—18. “ Poor Old
Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-
Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “Under the
Limes.”—24.' The Angel of Silence-
Part 2.—The Wobbltjaw Ballads, by Anthqny Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s. Reception at
Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tonyas Lament.—29.
The July Bug.—30. The Converted Carman.
Opinion’s op the Press.
From The Morning Posti
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in
reviewnearly a column long, says:—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming
a thing of the past j consequently any writer who, like Mr.
Harrison, exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the
praise of all who are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent
laugh. Not that his muse restricts herself only to such
lighter utterances ; on the contrary, some of his poems
touch on the deepest and most sacred feehngs of our common
humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his
adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years.
. . . The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome
from which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The
Morning Post sayS of; The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes are
pitched in “something like the same key as. The Bon
Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow' Papers, with an appreciably
successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. ... Occasionally we find verse
of great beauty, showing that tbe author possesses the pure
poetic gift.” .
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour
should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings.
Written, printed, published and reviewed by William H.
Harrison (38, Great Russell-street). Both the verses and the
short essays are really funny, and in some of the latter there
is a vein of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun.
The Lay of the Newspaper Editor is, capital, if rather severe,
and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers ; but one of the most
laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he went to be
photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse. . . . Some of the
metrical legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be
sung at the meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or
fifteen years ago. Mr. Harrison, however, knows where to
plant Ms fun, and an accurate scientific mind like his can
make jokes with success. ... To all wko wish to read a
pleasant volume magnificently got up as a gift-book, we
commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Boolcseller.
“ An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, spmein verseandotheisinprose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original,
and not at all ill-natured.” M » . j
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases
alluded to, and the imprint bears that the work is published
‘ a.d. 1877 (popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada);
a.m, 50,800,077 (Huxley).’ We believe that our readers
may derive a little amusement from a perusal of the
volume.’ ’
From The British Journal of Photography-.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of
which* are ■ in verse and others in prose, some 'Scientific, I
others social, but all of them excellent. . . . The Lazy Lays
will make excellent and amusing reading for an occasional
spare half-hour. . . .. They contain notMng unrefined or in
bad taste.” -
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How lladji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photo¬
graphed, is well dofie. •. •■. Bound in a cover of somewhat
powerful design.”
From The Photo'graphic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar
in connection with photographic and other .: scientific
literature, has considerable. facility . of versification, and
deals, in pleasant and humorous.niood, with many scientific
follies which are better laughed down than gravely dis¬
puted.” '
From The Scotsman. . ■ •
“ In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose-Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with
a due foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has
produced a most welcome book. . . . ‘ How Hadji A1
Shacabac was Photographed ’ will be sure to make every
reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be
expectcd_ that his subjects should bear some trace of this
peculiar idiosyncrasy, and indeed they are as free and easy
THE rSPIRITTJALi;ST.
as himself. . V . The poems are all characterised by smooth¬
ness and rhythmical swing. . . . The work is very elaborately
bound in cloth and gilt. . V’. A gorgeous design upon the
cover. ... If our readers wish to encourage laziness they
have a most deserving object in a very clever and versatile
member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays,
Mr. William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its
appearance and entertaining in its contents. . . . The author
is imbued with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all
while offending none ” •
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrisom
a well-known contributor to the London and provincial
press, and editor of The Spiritualist. . . . Many of the
humorous poems reminds us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The
Lay of the Photographer, The Lay of the Mace-bearers, and some
of The Wobblejaw Ballads would not have been unworthy of
Barham himself. Some of the shorter poems are exquisite,
and there pervade through the whole a religious sentiment
and poetie feeling wMch will make them acceptable to most
readers.”
From the Daily Northern Whig (Belfast).-
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji A1 Shacabac
was Photographed.’’- It is an admirable addition to our not
too extensive comic literature. The story is one of which
extracts would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely
humorous. . . . Those’ who wish to obtain a handsome gift-
book of an amusing nature, will, find what they want in The
Lazy Lays.”'
From The Bristol Daily Tost.
“ A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit. . . . The serious and sentimental verses belong to
the type of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
“ It is after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain,
or any of those merry souls who do quite as much good in
their day and generation as the authors of the most serious
1 works. The Lays are always original, sometimes serious,
generally comic, but never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—origmal, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty ;
full of lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts,
abounding -in tenderness and pathos; sparkhng with wit
and humour; and onethatmay.be read many times over. .
. . The get-up of the book is very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being.a series of papers entitled‘The Wobblejaw. Ballads,’
which appeared in the columns of this paper a short time
ago, and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B.
An irate member of the Town Council officially called the
attention of the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the
burlesques in the ‘Wobblejaw Ballads,’ but the members
assembled laughed at the matter, and proceeded to the next
business. The Mayor said that he did not mind them.] . . .
“ It contains some very choice poems and prose essays, is
bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original design of no
ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7$d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The peobable effects of spieit-
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND
RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. T wo Essays by
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green,
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals oe
the British National Association or Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
The teapped medium ; or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by- Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S., and Ms assistant, Dr. Proto¬
plaster, in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It
is an excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men and disbelievers in Spiritualism generally. A review
of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet
displays real genius. Price 6d.; post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
AT MES. PAEKEE’S, 3, BLOOMSBUEY
PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, LONDON, W.O.,
a Philosophical and Developing Circle is being formed.
Those wishing to join will please send in their names. Terms
on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing into
clairvoyance; she is replying to sealed questions when con-
, ditions favour. Office hours from 12 to 6 o’clock.
PEIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
’ MODEEN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena
for a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner
with the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London : SpirituaVist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size
of those of The Engineer newspaper), strongly and hand¬
somely bound in one, in half calf, red edges. They contain
records relating to Spiritualism in Great Britain from the end
of the year 1869 to the end of 1872, and ai tides and letters
by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F. Varley, The
Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of how
the Royal Society and British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr.
Crookes’s papers cn the physical phenomena of Spiritualism,
as the Royal Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery
of lightning conductors. ’ Very scarce. These two volumes
cannot be had separately. Price, carriage paid to any rail¬
way station in the United Kingdom, £1 10s.
Lbndon : W. H. Harrison, 33, Great Russell-street, W.C.
MXy‘23, 1879,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
- t/j. t Xc . b&J i ii-i a o
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm.. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for.its
quality and size, the cheapest large work ever published in
this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post-free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume,-post free.
C O N T ENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism-
Sensations—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep
or Mesmeric State—It Qccurs Spontaneously jn .Sleep-
Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain. ' '';;
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over
the Subject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feel¬
ings in the Look and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthful¬
ness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep
Caused by Silent Will ; and - at a Distance—Attraction
Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Com¬
mands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations;
of Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhi¬
bitions of Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the By¬
standers—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medica
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Anti¬
pathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision,
without the Eyes—Vision of Near Object: through Opaque
Bodies ; at a Distance—Sympathy and ' Clairvoyance in
Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.,
Predicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of
the Seer—Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting
Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—
Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of
Speech and of Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—
Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI :—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-
Psychology, and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Pheno¬
mena of Suggestions in the Conscious or Waking State—
Dr. Darling’s Method’and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised
by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The
Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The
Subjectmustbe Studied. -
CHAPTER VII :—Trance, Natural and Accidental;
Mesmeric—Trance Produced at Will by ’ the Subjects—Col.
Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not all Impostors—
Luminous Emanations — Extasis qiten Predicted—M.
Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phre-
nology—Effects of Teaching the Head in the Sleep—Variety
in the. Phenomena—Suggestions—Sympathy—There are
Cases in which these Act, and others in wMch they do not
Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible
of Mesmerism—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—
Sympathy of Animals—Snail Telegraph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action’of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the
Human Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyleis
Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the
Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—
Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—
Physiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insanity,
Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight
is Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena
Attempted or Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally
Diffused, Certainly, Exists, and is Probably the Medium of
Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of
the Subject—Effects of Odyle— Somnambulisn—Suggestion—
Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Eman¬
ations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid
Perception of. the Future. .
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of
Science—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints
—Conditions of Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure
—Mesmerism a Serious Thing— Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious
or Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an
Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and With¬
out Suggestion— Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—
Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or
by Concentration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The
Magic Crystal Induces Waking Lucidity, when Gazed at—
Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—
Cases—Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the
Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced with¬
out the Knowledge of the Subject— Suggestion in the Sleep—
Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathic Clairvoyance in
the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time—Gases-: Sir J. Frank¬
lin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovrion.
’CHAPTER XIV :—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travel¬
ling Clairvoyance—Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—
Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—Clairvoyance of
Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV ;—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous
Mesmeric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions,
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Con¬
cluding Remarks, and Summary.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveeidge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom,
in‘the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and Sc. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
