KEGISTEHIiD AS A NEWSPAPEEi
S>ff) J0U^K^I< 0^ ^^YCSO^OG^ldS^ ^dlE[K^S<-
W$t OTtt^b toit^ m feat iritaiw.
NO. 374. (VOL. XV.—No. 17-) LONDON; FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1879. Published Weekly ; Price Twopence.
Just Published.
AN ILLUSTRATED BROADSIDE ENTITLED
THE WOOERS OE LAMPORT, ETC.,
By SIR CHARLES ISHAM, Bart.
Price Three Halfpence, Post Free; or Ten for One Shilling.
2,000 Copies sold in two days.
PROFITS FOR ORPHANAGE.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
THE THE0S0PHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Condncted by H. P. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “ The Proprietor's of * The Theosophist,’ ” at the above address.
Now Ready.
The THIRD EDITION of Vol. I of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
MECHANISM OF MAN.
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism in Action,”
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LI&HTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists,
JAMES MALTBT,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majestys Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qnality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct, 24, 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HE A YEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT - IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).’
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth, Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
. 'Me Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Crown 8vo, pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
an essay on spiritual evolution,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“This is a very ingenious work. . . . It is eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophi
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we have rarely
had a more complete resvmie of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.’’—Pall Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till S. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o'clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Sunday),
"Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
street, every Sunday night,
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
16-1, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Church (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hat,, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MR. F. 0. MATTHEWS,
CLAIRVOYANT, TEST, AND HEALING
MEDIUM,
Is in Town, and will be open to engagements from
October. 215 to November 15.
Address—2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.O.
F. O. MATTHEWS,
CLAIRVOYANT, TRANCE, TEST AND
HEALING MEDIUM,
35, CAVENDISH TERRACE, WEST HILL PARK
HALIFAX, YORKSHIRE.
MR. A. H. FIRMAN
(Medium of Count de Bullet)
Will hold his
HOME CIRCLE
Every Tuesday and Friday Evening at Half-past Eight
o’clock, at his Rooms,
26, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, LONDON.
Mr. Firman will be at home every day, except Sun¬
day, from 12 till 5, to make arrangements for Private
Sittings.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o'clock. 173
Rue St. Honors, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to cii cumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
Notice of removal to si,
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER has arranged for seances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o’clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de¬
velopment for clairvoyance and other forms of
mediumship, from one to five o'clock daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d,,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d,, post free.
I'he Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Y^H|ARACTERS faithfully
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl's-court, 8.W.
& ix$ ttf thi) Sctocx) awd ethics uf spi^ituaUsm*
No. 374.—Vo^ujvie fifteen; Number ^evefiteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER SAth, 1879.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Pbice Twopence.
IQs. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HAKKISON.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladles and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to T/ie Spiritualist
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
C. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Oalder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. D. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Bev. O. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London-
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.B.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of Tht Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinek-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., O.E., F.B.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Blchardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. 0. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., FB.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 6, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Boyal, Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne ; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco j 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton, In this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The' book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has .been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-Street, London, W,0.
MEDIUMS.
BY CHBISTIAN BEIMEES.
Most of the investigators of spiritual phenomena
proceed by accumulating new facts and wonders,
mixing sometimes a noble desire for progress in
knowledge with a morbid greed of sensation, and often
without considering in the least the moral obligations
they are under towards mediums who, by their bene¬
ficial and likewise dangerous gifts, have a claim to
care and attention. We ought to recognise the care¬
ful study of humanity and its social adjustments as
our foremost duty. As long as mediumship is not
universally admitted to be a fact, the position of
mediums is a critical one, and one-sided running
after marvels is a disgrace, when we are aware of the
sufferings of the singular organisms known as
mediums from the brutal ignorance of outsiders and
from their o'luu folly; for, as a rule, the mediums of
the day are little prepared, by sound mental training,
to face the battle of society, to discriminate between
intrigues of circumstances and those of individuals.
Having myself so been placed as to be able to divide
my observations fairly between the startling facts of
Spiritualism, and the often equally perplexing traits
of mediumship, I feel impressed to start abler pens
on the subject of the most necessary, nay, pressing
duty, of throwing all possible light on the source of
the facts and efiects, in order to protect mediums
against ignorant society, and society against ignorant
mediums ; for inborn gifts, and the wise application
of them, are widely different things. Because of
my opportunities for studying many mediums,
I, fortunately, need not limit my conclusions
by depicting one subject, but may treat mediumship
in general, and at once settle on the fact that it
means giving up one's own individuality to out¬
side intelligences, without any assurance of being
restored to it after the control has quitted the
organism. This is of vast importance. The nearest
analogy to this running off the rails is to be seen in
the development of an actor. Before he settles on
the representation of fixed characters adapted to his
inherited moral constitution, he runs a round of
strange inconsistencies, if he does not fall a prey to
evil influences and final ruin. Many a great actor
on the stage has disgraced himself in life. Borrow¬
ing money under a pledge of honour, he puts the
request to repay between the leaves of his part to
study ; the latter part absorbs the demand, if he be
a rogue, and he offers insults to his creditor
in place of honest explanation. Or he will repay a
trifle of the considerable amount, and humbug him¬
self into the belief of being honourable, spending
perhaps the remainder in champagne out of cans
with genial friends. In fact, a total disregard of the
established laws of respectability sometimes charac-
194
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 24, 1879.
terises these spiritually-gifted persons, and the line u
of action is not always connected with coAscious in- n
tention to deceive, hut a reckless easy-going of morals, | (
and satisfaction with momentary impressions. Our H
standard of judgment and treatment of them is )j
critical indeed, and it is heartless and cowardly U\
conduct on the part of many of us to pay for a “per- |||
formance ” and pass by. h!
The controls leave their moral marks on the |)j
medium; so where no resistance by self-control is nj
offered, the surroundings in general will tell on the
temper and normal condition of mediums. If one of m
those singular organisms were, for instance, to be J)|
kept by a rich protector, it would soon reflect the j
most prominent features of the latter in habits of m
thought and living, as clerks often imitate the head j>j
of a firm by adopting the “we” in talking of kj
business matters. ni
These cross influences of high and low origin cause m
sad confusion in the public mind in regard to the first b|
claims of mediums. They are, in most instances, [)|
wretchedly paid, if we compare their expenditure of Is
vitality with that of other pets of fashion; indeed, l?j
the jealousy between them claims our indulgence, js!
although some outrages in that direction committed m
by star mediums of late deserve the severest censure, m
They had better take heed of their temporary j<|
position, for Spiritualism smashes every design in n
relation to money or notoriety. The philosophy of it in
modifies our standard of what is required to live j>j
happily for a year in God’s creation. In my humble k|
opinion £200 a year ought to be sufficient for any jsj
head of a family (or the Creator has made a mess of )
His arrangements); and a medium troubling his fellow ni
creatures to get more ought to be horsewhipped out j)j
of the Temple, if the natural increase of success by n(
refined qualities and judicious conduct will not justify m
an exceptional position, which will meet the appro- nj
bation of the truly refined. k]
In conclusion, I repeat that the compensation of m
mediums is often, perhaps in most cases, cryingly <
in their disfavour; but let us carefully study ni
their calling, to lay down a better road for the kj
deserving, and to thrust back those who push them- n
selves forward at the expense of others. We have m
enough of new marvels ; let us improve the conditions Hi
under which they are produced, and which call for m
attention every hour of every day. s
MomingtOQ-road, London, N.W. j) |
TEST MEDIUMSHIP. j
The following is a reprint from the Banner of |)j
Light of the public utterances of Mr. J. Baxter, at j)|
Lake Pleasant Camp Meeting. Mr. Baxter has >
a class of mediumship much in demand in this jjj
country. j (j
Taking the hand of Mr. Manley, of Spring- i}j
field, Mr. Baxter said : I see the name “Eliza Butler Hj
Manley, Feb. 19th, 1862.” Mr. Manley replied, ||
“That was my nephew, who spelt his name Eliza, (
though a man.” [This was considered a nice point, j)
as Mr. Baxter himself thought it ought to be Elizur; jjj
but was mistaken, the spirit having the name cor- )!
rectly.] n|
Here is a lady who suffered intensely for a long i (!
| time ; some sort of disease ; I have a strange feeling
| across my chest. She was about forty-eight; been
j away but a short time. She said before death, “ I
j don’t know much about this. If it’s true, and I
| ever get the chance, I will return, if I have to go to
| Baxter at Lake Pleasant.” [Acknowledged as a
| statement of facts by one of the audience.]
I see “ Jane J. Weaver.” Attica says you may
| say “Mrs. J. Leroy Weaver.” She died of some
| disease that gave her an intense pain in the chest, at
! Orange, Mass., Nov. 27th, 1878. [Recognised, the
| statement being made that she died of a cancer.]
A young man comes who died of a lingering sick¬
ness of throat and lungs. He asks that his friends
may meet him where he can tell them the fact that
Charley F. Merriam, of Northfield Farms, Mass., is
present. I see “ James,” and am strongly impressed
to reach over and touch you sir (pointing to a man
in front). [The man at once arose, and said, “James
was the father of the young man, and it is all
correct.”]
Henry Osborn passed away at about fifty years of
age, and throws his arm around the neck of a lady
there. (Pointing to her.) [The lady rose, said in
acknowledgment that the man was her husband, and
died in Bridgeport, Ct., eleven years ago.]
There is now the influence of a spirit; an old
man ; in spirit-life a number of years. He was very
strong physically—strong will. I see this man with
a staff in his hand. It is too clumsy for a staff. I
see beside him rocks, stones. I think the staff is a
crow-bar. He places the crow-bar between the
stones; he makes a sudden start. Attica says
“ watch closely.” The bar is wrenched from one of
his hands, the iron strikes his head; he falls with
one hand under the head and one over it. He
dies! Suddenly, not instantly killed. Think this
man passed away in unconsciousness. He was a
man in whom the public had confidence. He was
called Colonel John Jones. Died at about sixty or
sixty-five years of age, in May, 1861, in Weston.
[Three ladies in the audience privately admitted
the truth of this test, but would not say so publicly,
as they were not Spiritualists.]
Here’s a man—Dr. Otis Clarke, Great Barrington,
Springfield. He is drawn by the idea of his pre¬
sence being mentioned by one person to another.
He was a man of culture. He was an invalid for
many years. [This was recognised by Mr. Manley, of
Springfield.]
I see Dr. Will Dougherty. He is with a lady
(Fanny Burbank Felton.) He is from Hatfield,
Mass. [Recognised.]
Here’s a little child—no, a young man. Irving
Mather. He was a small child when he went out—
some five or six years ago. He says, “If you had
given the names Lewis W. Mather and Fanny E.
Mather, the child would be better placed.” With him
comes a person by the name of Blanchard, Mrs. Dr.
Blanchard, in whose hands I find the child placed—
Worcester, Mass. [Recognised.]
The following names and facts were cited by
Mr. Baxter subsequently: Edgar Harris; Nancy
Brigham Hawes, died December 3, 1869, at Barre,
Mass. A Spiritualist, but not much of an open talker
about it.
Oct. 24. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 195
Dr. Sparhawk, Dr. Spring, Dr. Isaac Hale, of
Newburyport, Mass. Dr. Spring had little to do with
Spiritualism. Dr. Sparhawk was more liberal. Dr.
Hale was a Spiritualist. Dr. Sparhawk lived in
Amesbury, Mass., as well as Newburyport. [Re¬
cognised.]
Here is a man (said Mr. B.) some seventy or more
years of age—Dr. A. J. Gridley, of South Hampton,
Mass. [Name recognised.]
I feel the influence of a man in spirit-life—a
fluttering of the heart. With difficulty I speak to
you. This man is interested in the meetings. Been
in spirit-life some time. Was a Spiritualist before
passing out. I hear “Springfield, Mass.” He did
not die in Springfield, but in San Francisco, Cal. He
was taken sick suddenly and died there. I feel this
fluttering of the heart here. He liked to talk with
opposers of Spiritualism—especially on the Bible.
Was greatly respected, and had the confidence of
people. I see January 8, 1870. Rufus Elmer. [Re¬
cognised by several present as a Springfield man.]
I am looking on a country landscape ; clouds are
rolling up ; trees are bare; there comes a flash of
lightning—a roar of thunder. The ground is covered
with snow or frost. I see a woman. Phoebe Moore.
She is rejoicing in the fact of this meeting. She says
we are not aware of the influence this meeting is
having on the surrounding community. Many are
almost ready to join us. I see this spirit is attracted
to a party one-third back in the audience. * * Hadley,
Mass.” Attica says “ February 19, 1860,” the day
of the funeral, which was the first one after her death,
when she came to consciousness to notice things in
earth-life. She passed away on Sunday, in a fearful
thunderstorm ; the clouds broke away as they were
about to deposit her body in the grave, and bathed
the landscape in the richest sunshine. [Recognised as
correct by several present.]
Here’s a strange name, Wood Babcock—Benj.
Starbuck. The latter is a gentleman from Troy, I
think. The man Babcock was for a long time in the
church ; the last part of the time he left the Me¬
thodist Church because they did not admit the com¬
munion of spirits ; and he thinks they ought to from
the evidences in the church, and from the life of Wes¬
ley. [Recognised.]
I see a woman. She goes across a room on tip-toe.
Has a little tin dipper and a cloth. She is acting as
a nurse to some one troubled with throat difficulty.
“ Holliston” is in my mind. She is anxious that a
Mr. Metcalf should be reached. There are parties
here who can carry it to her husband, Daniel Metcalfe.
Her name is Annie Metcalfe. She might have had
this throat difficulty too while nursing, or afterwards.
Died November 25, 1878. [Pronounced correct by
several witnesses.]
Here is a woman who was brought up in the church.
Townsend—Fitchburg—connected with those places.
S. A. Tyler—“ Addie Tyler.” She is connected with
some member of the Fitchburg band.
Here is a woman resting up in a room where there
are three children and a lady who has a child a week
or less old, who holds it up. Say “ Addie Lawrence,
and see if they don’t know.” [Not recognised, as
the band were not present at the meeting.]
I see the names Mr. Batchelder, Mr. Caswell.
Latter passed out in consequence of a rash act by his
|l| own hand. I hear the shot of a pistol or gun.
Hi Batchelder passed to spirit-life before him some time;
m once was interested in him, and brings him back to-
|| day because he finds it hard to make the advance in
| spirit-life he should. Walter Caswell is the whole
I name, and Ezra Batchelder the other, of North
I Brookfield, Mass. [Recognised as all right, except
| that Walter should be Wilder.] I see “E. & A. M.
j Batchelder” on a sign. Now the “E.” has been
j stricken out. [Mr. Babbitt, of Barre, said that was
I the present sign over the store. “E.” had been
stricken off since Ezra’s death. The “M.” should
I have been “ H.”]
m Does anybody know Jared Gage ? He comes from
j)| a long distance. Vineland, N.J., at John Gage’s,
j [Recognised as a neighbour of one of the audience.]
“For forty-two years I, as a mortal, walked
n your earth : for one-half of that time and more I have
jjj been an inhabitant of the spirit world. I have been
iJj interested to-day and brought here because of my in-
j)| terest in this philosophy. I can never forget the
j{| event of my death—17th of April, 1858. I passed out
j/l to realise in a measure what I anticipated ; yet have
j I not found it in all respects what I looked for. I was
j) a physician. William Carpenter.” Attica says that
j the man was a radical in his ideas. He naturally
j)j believed in the Philosophy of Spiritualism. He could
| ! not be cramped by error. He was a man well re-
h ceived. Men said he was honest, respected, and in-
>1 telligent, but oh, he had got hold of those Rochester
(| Knockings.” He was made a thorough Spiritualist at
n| a time when he suffered most severely ; at which time
!?j his eyes were opened and he was made to see for
m himself the forms of spirits about him. Now I have
|)l a strange feeling. I am cold. There is a pressure
H on my left lung. I cannot get a good breath. He
)| passed out by some lung difficulty. South Wilbraham,
j Mass. [Acknowledged as correct by two persons pre-
m sent.]
Here’s a man—Deacon Perry. I see a large barn
K —hay ; a man is lying on the floor of the barn—an
ijl elderly man—moving a little. I see the date,
|(j “November 24th, 1871.” Nowlsee a room—a bed.
|> Several people in the room. They take bandages
jn from the head, which appear saturated with blood,
jj I think the injury occurred on that date ; as near as
m he can remember, was getting hay for his cattle and
s fell; was found on the barn floor in an unconscious
/ state. Deacon Cyrus Perry is his name. He says he
{ was not unconscious, but could not speak. I place this
\\\ in Holden, Mass. Passed away December 1st of that
Hi year. [Not recognised publicly.]
I see the name Abner Holbrook on an arch, and
Hi under it a large boot. That man is attracted here on
m account of persons who are present. Lovell’s Corner
| | comes to my mind. Probably the place where the
|(| man lived. One of the children of this man was a
h| teacher for some time in the Industrial School in
{ Lancaster. How the matter will be received by the
i! friends he does not know, but feels it a duty, I con-
/ nect him with a clergyman—someone in his family.
Isj [Not recognised publicly.]
Here is a little child. Willie E. Stewart—a little
Hj bit of a child in short clothes. I hear, “Papa is
jvj William E. Stewart.” Chicopee, Springfield. He is
Hi connected with both. Date September 24th, 1875.
[Not recognised.]
196
THE SPIRITUALIST.
A spirit here. Susan ; been a long time in spirit-
life ; went out happily. Roland Duckworth. I
connect Susan with this man. The spirit is a young
lady, yet if living now she would be nearly sixty
years of age. [Not recognised.]
Say that old William Packard is here. He is
associated with Cummington and Worthington, Mass.
[A hearer rose and said the man lived in Cummington,
and died in Worthington.]
There is a Dr. Nelson Carpenter here, who was
identified with the Methodist Church ; an old man—
a man who had a great practice over a large territory;
a man always ready to go and do * more than
other physicians—riding and working a great deal in
the night. I associate him with Warren, Mass. In
the summer time, seven years ago. [Not recognised.]
Some of these descriptions were, however, privately
identified by persons in the audience who refused
to let their knowledge be publicly known.
I stand on a hill, see a street, with large trees
on both sides ; elm trees: have a weak feeling in the
small of my back. This was a young man about my
own age. Should think he had been in spirit-life
a little over two years. Charles O. Phillips,
Pocumptuc House, Deerfield, Mass. He was a
member of some cavalry force in the war. Passed
out as the result of over-work in the service. His
father was A. D. Phillips. [Right.]
I see a young lady sixteen or seventeen years of
age. She sits by a table; her eyes are closed as in a
trance ; been a long time in spirit-life. She suffered
exceedingly. She was troubled with dropsy. Passed
Eeb. 11th, 1856, twenty-three years ago. Mary A.
Pease, South Wilbraham, Mass.
I see the name Thomas Vincent—was made a
Spiritualist by Dr. Newton.
Emma L. Baxter, killed by freight train at Wor¬
cester, on the track of the Nashua Railroad, in Lincoln-
square. She was Mrs. Fred Baxter. [Right.]
Warren Lovering, of Medway, Mass. ; a man of
great influence ; held office; went to the Legislature,
&c.; then lost his property by dissipation and died in
the poorhouse. [Right.]
Adelbert H. Dewey, Lebanon, Ct., and David
Moseley, of Westfield, Mass. [Both recognised.]
“ ANNIHILATION.”
“Annihilation ” is evidently coming to the fore.
Adjunctive evidence to a very wide extent respecting
this doctrine held by the theosophists and the Con¬
ditional Humanity Association is borne witness to by
one whose testimony Spiritualists will unhesitatingly
accept.
Captain R. F. Burton, the illustrious traveller,
shows us in his work, Two Trips to Gorilla Land
and the Cataracts of the Congo (Sampson Low,
1876), that the doctrine of man’s destruction is
largely, if not universally held by the whole negro
race. He tells us (Vol. I., p. 92), “Africans have a
material, evanescent, intelligible future, not an
immaterial, 1 incomprehensible eternity ; the ghost
endures only for awhile, and perishes like the
memory of the little-great name. Hence the ignoble
dread in East and West Africa of a death which
leads to a shadowy world, and eventually to utter
annihilation.”
Oct. 24, 1879.
He says :—“They wail and sorrow with a burden
of despair over the idea of dying ; any allusion to
loss of life turns their black skins blue.”
Such is the effect of the doctrine of annihilation—
or let us call it, more philosophically, perishment,
destruction—upon the sensitive and primitive race.
For here let me draw a very marked line between the
view held by the theosophist and the conditional im¬
mortality man as distinguished from that of the black
man. The latter has, unlike the two former, 'no
immortal future for the elect,, or shall we call them
the lucky ones—a future utterly dissimilar to that
of the non-elect or the unlucky ones. No, with the
negro all mankind are under the same ban ; utter
destruction sooner or later is the lot of all. All
linger for a while in a ghostly state after death, and
then vanish away.
The negro does not believe “that any human
being is at once extinguished as to his conscious
individuality at the change called death.” But he
makes no reservation ; he believes that all humanity,
himself included, must look for “ annihilation ” : or
destruction “ eventually.,’
Now I cannot but think that the negro, who sees
no exception from the common lot to any, not even
for himself, presents a striking picture of noble
humility, an absence of self-seeking worthy of the
highest admiration, commendable as it is rare among
the higher races ; as well as demonstrating, to my
thinking, a fund of common sense in gauging rightly,
as we believe, God’s dealing with man, His highest
work, in a way that we may look for in vain among
Europeans, as a rule.
So we who^do not believe in annihilation or man?s
destruction, think that there are brighter hopes in
store for the negroes than they have conceived for
themselves, or than the spirits of their race, with
whom they are in communion, have, in these present
days, any' cognisance of; though they have already
conceived, in their own way, we believe, the one
grand secret: that there is, for humanity, whether
in the fluidic or earthly state, men or angels, good
or bad, under all and every circumstance, emanations
as they are all from the Eternal, but one common
eventuality for all.
These “poor Pagans,” who have all along the
African coasts refused all incentives to accept what
Captain Burton calls, “ Another apd a better, or a
worse,” are still amenable to something more precious
than the anticipation of eventual destruction ; 'but of
something which, at the same time, may be still the
common lot. And Buddhism offers this alternative
now, as Neoplatonism also offered it until it was put
down. We have reason to think that if Buddhism
had been offered to the negro he would have adopted
it. Buddhism, which is the only existing faith
except Fetish, Spiritism, and Spiritualism partially,
that gives the same eventuality to all mankind. But
Buddhism, with its progress through successive in¬
carnations, and its fluidic and earthly purgatories
(or methods of cleansing), trusts not to propagandism
for success : people go to it, not it to them, and the
Buddhists seem contented with holding already in
their harmonious fold far more than a third of the
human race. I am led to this opinion that the negro
would accept Buddhism by an observation of Captain
Burton himself. He tells us: “ An African chief
Oct. Mi 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
197
said in my presence to a Yahoo-like naval officer,
“ When so be I die, I come up for white man ! When
so be you die, you come up for monkey ! ” We see,
then, that there is an aptitude in the negro, who now
believes in destruction, to accept, in its stead, the
hopeful tenet of progress through reincarnation.
However it may have been in former days, when the
negroes too may have had their elect, yet long ex¬
perience appears to have taught the negro spirits who
communicate with and teach the living, to know that
Anyambia, their Great “First Cause,” suffers no
favouritism. So, since there are no elect, their com¬
municating spirits have now led, and, probably,
honestly led, the black race to a belief in the doctrine
of destruction for all, with what “ignoble” results
Captain Burton has shown ; and this I need not re¬
capitulate, for we have seen into what a pusillanimous
position a long belief in this doctrine has landed them.
But what if, because spirits, missing their fellow
spirits, and believing it themselves, tell their mediums
that these missing spirits must be annihilated ; what
if, in lieu of that, these missed spirits are not lost but
reincarnated ? What df it should be thus % Why
not ? ^ Scrutator.
THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN.
Clouds and "water mingled in the sunlight, while
over the trunk of a fallen tree, upon which we rested,
the moss and ground ivy had together formed a com¬
plete covering for the rude bark. “Yes, this wood
is delightful,” I exclaimed; r‘one cannot help feeling
happy here. There is peace and quiet in the air, only
broken by the songs of the birds and the rippling of
the brook. Look at that robin yonder, his throat
swollen with song ; his tiny frame is not large enough
to contain his joy. How all Nature seems to rejoice
to-day.”—“The flowers are at their best now,”
cried Kathleen, holding up a specimen of daffodil.
And then followed a simple lecture on botany, and I
listened while she dilated on the modest snow-white
bells of the lilies of the valley, on the showy
narcissus, with a beauty of its own, and a rich
fragrance that we could ill spare; and on the tiny and
graceful harebell. “Was ever anything so simple
and yet so lovely ? ” she cried. After a pause, she
said, “ Mildred, I often wonder whether there really
are flowers in Heaven?”—“Well, I cannot fancy
a Heaven without flowers,” I answered.—“I have
lately been reading the Bible to my uncle,” said
Kathleen, “ and I have grown very much perplexed
in trying to form an idea of what Heaven is. There
are streets of gold, they say, and gates of pearl; but
were I able to choose, I would have my heaven paved
with the greensward and abundant in flowers.”—
“And so shall it be, my sweet sister,” I cried, with a
sudden inspiration upon me. ‘{The Kingdom of
Heaven is within you, and the pure loves of your life
shall garnish it.”—“But,” said she, looking rather
alarmed, “is not Heaven already prepared for such
as shall be found worthy of it ? ”—“Ah, Kathleen,
I have had strange thoughts lately about the Bible
and Heaven, and one is, that there is no Heaven for !
any until it is developed in our own spiritual nature.” j
—Between the Lights, by Lisotte Earle. *
REVIEW.
An Essay on Spiritual Evolution considered in
ITS BEARING UPON MODERN SPIRITUALISM, SCIENCE,
and Religion. By J. P. B., London: Trubner
and Co. 1879, Pp. 155,
The writer of this little volume holds, as he tells
us on the title page, that “ Life is the elaboration of
Soul through the varied transformations of Matter.”
His is an essay to explain and enforce an evolu¬
tionary view of Spiritualism, similar to that which
I attempted to lay before your readers in No. 842 of
The Spiritualist, in March last, fie has evidently
read to profit the records of research and reflection
by the leaders of scientific thought. All his state¬
ments of facts in biology and psychology he brings
forward as quotations from the works' of Charles
Darwin, Herbert Spencer, Ernst Hceckel, Henry
Maudsley, and many others, and he has availed him¬
self of the most recent researches, referring at some
length to those of G. J. Romanes, “ on the beginning
of nerves in the animal kingdom.” He is thus able to
set before his readers, of course briefly, but in a
style clear and flowing, the various parts of this
large and important theory and their relation to one
another. The argument introduces itself by a
reference to the difference between the Spiritualism
of England and that of the Continent—the one being
more concerned with the collection of facts, and the
other with theories as to the meaning of the facts.
He urges, very justly, that the chaotic condition of
facts accumulated in England and America is one
that should as soon as possible give place to order,
and in no other way can order be obtained than by the
cautious use of theory tested and verified by reference
to fact. No theory that has been propounded serves
tfie purpose of a good working hypothesis as
thoroughly and adequately as this one of a physical
and a spiritual evolution, proceeding side by
side and step by step in parallel lines from the
lowest organic form up to the highest. It is a great
reconciler of long-standing feuds. By it Spiritualism
and materialism are both confirmed, and supplement
one another: in philosophy the chronic war between
sensationalism and intuitionalism is ended; and in
morality the inequalities and seeming injustice of the
social order are seen to be temporary incidents,
dwarfed to nothing when viewed as part of a long-
extended existence. The value and dignity of human
life are greatly enhanced by this prospect of far-
reaching and continuous development, and the
incentive to self-control and self-improvement is very
powerful in view of the possibility of progress and
the certainty that the mastery of lower tendencies
must be ultimately attained. The central point
of the theory, round which all its included ideas
cluster and group themselves, is the close and pro¬
portionate union of the soul and body from brain to
foot, The body perishes, but the soul remains, and
with it the results of the conjoint experiences, as
when a steel-plate is coated with wax, and certain
characters are drawn on the wax, and acid is run
into these marks and the wax removed, the characters
are found firmly and clearly engraved on the steel.
But with the soul there is this difference; the process
is repeated again and again, the soul is re-covered
with flesh until all the characters are elaborated and
198
completed; until the simple consciousness of a monad
becomes the facile and powerful intelligence of the
civilised man. The soul’s power of development is
indefinite; that of the body is limited; the bodily
organs, including the brain, cannot by use and
training be developed beyond the extent of their
capacity. Hence the necessity for successive incar¬
nations to permit of the soul’s continued progress.
The essay is a useful introduction to the study of
this theory. I regret, however, that the writer has
not seen fit to put his name in full to such a very
neat and carefully-executed piece of printer’s work.
J. Glode Stapelton.
powerful spiritual manifestations.
BY F. ARUNDALE.
The following notes of a sitting, which took place
a short time since with Mr. Rita, may prove interest¬
ing to your readers.
The circle consisted of Mrs. and Miss Falkiner
(at whose house the seance took place), Mrs. and
Miss Arundale, Monsieur and Madame Colomb, and
their daughter. The medium was held throughout
the whole of the stance by Mr. Colomb on one side
and Madame Colomb on the other, the hands of all
being joined before the light was turned out. After
sitting a short time “ Charley’s ” voice was heard
greeting the various members of the company and
making sundry small jokes in his usual lively
manner. After entrancing the medium, Charley
showed his power in many ways by rapping in all
directions, bringing articles from the mantelpiece,
taking rings off the ladies’ fingers, proving to the
satisfaction of all that there was present with us an
intelligence and a power entirely distinct from the
entranced and held medium. At the same time that
Charley was speaking to those round the table,
another spirit was winding up the musical box at a
side table, and one of the party was continually
being touched by a spirit purporting to be that of a
friend, and who also beat a lively tattoo on the rung
of her chair. A weight of seven pounds was carried
round, also a small hand-bell, and the musical box.
Towards the end of the stance the chair of Mr.
Colomb was withdrawn from under him, passed over
the heads of those present, and placed on the table—
a feat that would have been difficult for a spirit in
the body to have done in the light, for the chairs
were close round the table, and Mr. Colomb’s chair
was placed between the table and the mantelpiece in
such a manner that it could not have been moved
without disturbing those at the side. Charley then
gave the signal to light up, which was done, and it
was then, under a good light, that the most extra¬
ordinary manifestation of the evening occurred.
While all present were examining a piece of paper
on which Charley had written, something apparently
flew past on to the table. It proved to be a pen¬
wiper, with a small gutta-percha figure of Father
Christmas, that had been on the mantelpiece, and
which Miss Falkiner had seen there when she lit the
candle after the stance. It is a fact to be noticed
that the penwiper came from an opposite part of the
room to that in which the medium was standing, and
through his agency its flight would have been im¬
Oct. 24, 1879.
possible. . Thus ended a most satisfactory seance to
all present, and Madame Colomb, who, although a
believer in the truths of Spiritualism, had never been
present at a physical stance, expressed herself con¬
vinced of the presence of a power separate and inde¬
pendent of the medium.
21, St. Edmund’s-terrace, Regent’s-park, London.
REMEMBRANCE AND OBLIVION.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S.
{< If there be nothing new, but that which is,
Hath been before, how are our brains beguil’d.
Which labouring for invention bear amiss
The second burthen of a former child.”
—Shakespeare.
I SUPPOSE the fancy about reincarnation is taken
from the ancient doctrine of the transmigration of
souls, and, as “ Solomon saith, There is no new thing
upon the earth ; so that as Plato had in imagination,
That all knowledge was but remembrance, so Solomon
giveth the sentence, That all novelty is but oblivion.
Whereby you may see that the river of Lethe
runneth as well above ground as below/’ Bacon
further cites the opinion of “ an abstruse astrologer,”
that “ If it were not for two things that are constant
(the one is that the fixed stars ever stand, and never
come nearer together, nor go farther asunder; the
other, that the diurnal motion perpetually keeps
time), no individual would last one moment;” and
he adds, “ Certain it is that the matter is in a per¬
petual flux, and never at a stay.” In the Pytha¬
gorean doctrine of Palingenesia, souls went from one
body into another, first having drank of the water of
Lethe—“ epotti prius Lethes undd” It strikes me
as a remarkable fact in modern Spiritualism, that
the soul or spirit in passing on to a new state of
existence does not drink of the water of Lethe; yet
the mesmeric somnambule forgets all that has
occurred during the state, but put him under the
same conditions again, and he will remember all that
had occurred in his former mesmeric state. Again,
the inspired poet seems for the time to be in an
abnormal condition or dream, and if he does not pen
down his thoughts at the time will forget them
entirely, as I have related of my late friend Barry
Cornwall, the poet.
A SPIRITUALISTIC FUNERAL AT HAMMERSMITH.
Mr. A. Pitt, of Great Church-lane, Hammersmith,
writes that on Saturday, Oct. 11th, at the Hammer¬
smith Cemetery, the consignment to the grave of the
earthly body of a child of tender years took place.
The child was the son of Mr. and Mrs. Chaplin, of
Starch-green. The service was conducted by Mr.
Crouch er, president of the West London Spiritual
Society, Brook-green. The relatives drove up to the
cemetery in a carnage with a white horse, without
any signs of mourning in their costume ; the three
little sisters of the departed young spirit were dressed
in blue dresses, with white sashes and gloves to
match, and with flowers in their hands to strew upon
the coffin after it was lowered into the grave. Part
of the usual form was gone through by the attendant
minister at the cemetery, which it appears is neces¬
sary in consecrated ground, but at the. request of the
parents it was cut short, after which he walked away.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 24, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
199
Mr. Croucher then stepped forward and spoke a few
words as to the state of the new-born spirit, he
“having heard of it from some of its friends on the
other side, who informed him that it had not yet
realised the change it had undergone.” He then
gave out the 111th hymn in Spiritual Lyre, verse
by verse, which was sung by those present, and was
listened to with attention by some twenty or thirty
persons who had collected on the spot. He next
spoke of the beauty of the spiritual teachings and
the unreasonableness of the fear of death, and finally
read the 60th hymn (Spiritual Lyre). The friends
then with cheerful faces left the ground, not with “ a
hope of a glorious resurrection,” but with, a positive
knowledge that the young spirit had already risen,
and was being cared for far better than it could have
been here. *
WEIGHING MACHINE EXPEKIMENTS.
Additional apparatus is being fitted up at 33’
Museum-street, London, by Mr. Blackburn, to carry
on the work of weighing mediums and materialised
forms during the progress of spiritual manifestations.
It includes a second pencil, for drawing a zero-line on
the paper round the drum which was described in
our last, and for automatically marking time upon
the drum by means of clockwork and electro-mag¬
netic apparatus, so that any irregularities in time
will be instantly detected and measured off. He has
also supplied a second machine for weighing the
forms. Other diagrams have been obtained than
those mentioned last week, and some particulars will
be published shortly.
MR. MARTHEZE’S VOYAGE ROUND THE
WORLD.
We have received a letter from Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze, dated Sydney, New South Wales, August
30th, 1879. He had previously visited Ceylon,
Singapore, and Batavia, collecting information in
relation to psychical phenomena among the natives
of those tropical regions. He says that Dr. Slade
did some good in Sydney, but that the nervous move¬
ments of his body while under influence tended to
inspire distrust among uninformed people. There
are two young public mediums in Sydney not much
developed, but several in private life. He adds that
the city is a beautiful one, the harbour unequalled,
and the climate so fine that few residents have any
inclination to return to England. The Exhibition
attracts numbers of strangers. Mr. Martheze sends
us the names of the chief local Spiritualists, pro¬
bably for private information only, and says that he
has been living in a villa in the suburb of Newtown,
which he will leave at the end of this month
(October), and travel inland. He intends to return
to England vid San Francisco and the United
States.
Surplus copies of certain back numbers of The Spiritualist
not required for binding may be had in large bundles free, for
distribution, carriage unpaid. Applications to be addressed
to The Spiritualist Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London,
W.C.
SPIRITUALISM IN DISTANT REGIONS.
The correspondence which reaches us from time to
time from our readers, reveals how Spiritualism is
spreading in most out-of-the-way regions, such as
Vancouver’s Island, the shores of the Persian Gulf,
and the Azores, and one of the last communications
from abroad comes to us from the Island of St.
George, Behring’s Sea. The writer says:—“lam
so far removed from civilisation that I have no com¬
munication with the outer world for at least nine
months in twelve. This island is 200 miles north of
the Alentian chain; it belongs to the United States
Government. From this, and the neighbouring
Island of St. Paul, the London market is principally
supplied with fur seal. I send this note by a
whaler.”
I ROBERT DALE OWEN.
rj Mr. John E. Polk writes:—“ You will do a
) I great many Spiritualists of Texas a favour by
(| answering the following queries: Did Robert Dale
) | Owen die in a lunatic asylum ? or was he a lunatic
(| prior to his death ? or did he renounce Spiritualism
)\ as a humbug?”
(j Mr. Owen did not die in a lunatic asylum, but at
)| his own quiet little home on the shores of Lake
y! George, New York. He was, several years before his
/1 death, insane for a short time, and was placed in the
(| Indiana Insane Asylum ; the physician in charge,
j|' Dr. Evarts, gave his case especial attention, and
(j decided that his brain had given way to overwork,
j I and that rest and treatment would restore him to his
(j usual health. The correctness of Dr. Evarts’s
)j diagnosis was fully proved by the rapid and com-
U plete restoration of the patient. We saw and
/j conversed with Mr. Owen at Philadelphia after his
\| recovery, and not a trace of weakness was dis-
)| cernible. He spent considerable time with Dr.
M Crowell, of Brooklyn, just prior to his death, and
) | we have often heard the doctor speak of his wonderful
) | mental strength. He knew full well at the time of
his visit at Dr. Crowell’s that he would soon pass
IH from earth, and made arrangements with Dr. Crowell
)j to communicate with him after the change should
II have occurred. Mr. Owen died in the full possession
)j of his faculties and a firm faith in Spiritualism.
11 Since his transition he has been in constant inter-
(\ course with Dr. Crowell, the full particulars of which
j! will in due time, no doubt, be given to the world.—
(j Religio-Philosophical Journal, Oct. 4.
) i Mr. T. 0. Matthews, the remarkable test medium, is now at
(| 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury, and will probably remain in London
\ i for some time.
Prevision.—“It seems not out of place to give to your readers
\ i a description of a vision which I had on the morning of August
\! 8th. I was at the time with Mrs. Shepherd, a sister of mine.
) i All at once a horrible picture was presented to me. I saw a man
) j walking briskly and then fall forward. I saw car wheels, and
(j the man crushed into pieces. I saw much blood about his chest
\ I and shoulders. I saw him pale, and then I saw him dead.' This
j | man was then employed about the railroad, and was killed by the
) j cars in Blair, Neb., the 27th of August, just as I saw in every
<1 respect. His name was Jones. I am confident that we are at
\ i all times encompassed about by a great cloud of angels and
I) | spirit witnesses, and when conditions are right, they make them-
j) | selves known to us in very many ways.—M. E. Brigham.”—
•Religio-Phibsophical Journal, Oct. 4th, 1879.
200
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 24, 1879,
THE ‘'FOURTH DIMENSION.” |
In Glanvil’s Sadducismus Triumphatus, in the |<
library in Great Russell-street, may be found at page |{
87 the following quotation from Dr. More’s Euciii- )j
ridion Ethicum, on “ The True Notion of a Spirit,” j>
a second edition of which was published in the year I (
1669 s— |IH |
“ That, besides those Three Dimensions, which ||
belong to all external things, a Fpurth also is to |)
be admitted, which belongs properly to Spirits.
“ And that I may not dissemble or conceal any j)
Thing, although all Material Things, considered in
themselves, have three Dimensions only, yet there |)
must be admitted in Nature a Fourth, which fitly h
enough, I think, may be called Essential Spissitude; I /
which, though it most properly appertains to those j\
Spirits who can contract their extension into a less j /
Ubi, it may be referred also to Spirits penetrating as j\
well the Matte}' as mutually one another, so that, |/
wherever there are more Essences than one, or more K
of the same Essence in the same Ubi, than is I)
adequate to the amplitude thereof, there this Fourth \ (
Dimension is to be acknowledged, which we call j/
Essential Spissitude.
“ Which, assuredly, involves no greater Repugnancy ] ?
than what may seem, at first view to him that con- | \
siders the Thing less attentively, to be in the other j)
three Dimensions, namely, unless one would conceive !>
that a Piece of Wax stretched out, suppose, to the K
Length of an Ell, and afterwards rolled together into n
the Form of a Globe, loses something of its former U
Extension, by this its Conglobation, he must confess ||
that a Spirit, neither by the contraction of itself into j)
a less Space, has lost any Thing of its Extension or n
Essence, but, as in the above said Wax, the Diminu- j)
tion of its Longitude is compensated with the Aug- y
mentation of its Latitude and Profundity; so in a 1|
Spirit, contracting itself, that in like Manner its |>
Longitude, Latitude, and Profundity being lessened, j<
are compensated by Essential Spissitude, which the |j
Spirit acquires by this contraction of itself. K
“ And in both cases we are to remember that the |)
Site is only bhanged, but that the Essence and j (
Extension are not at all impaired.” j;
And at page 122, in reply to an objector, occurs k
" And now for the Penetrability of Spirits, it is ! j
evident even in this life that they can wholly pene- K
trate one another so far as their Essence extends, for |)
one may have a greater amplitude than another. And j <
that the Parts, as I may so call them, of the same j)
Spirit may, in the contraction of itself, penetrate one j (
another, so that there may be a Reduplication of I)
Essepce through the whole Spirit, But as you very K
well observe with/Shaker before you, a Spirit can I)
neither extend itself in Infinitum, nor contract K
itself into the Nullity of a Point” j)
Thus we find, upwards of two hundred years ago, K
the learned Dr. More exercising himself at consider- I)
able length to convey to the world his “ true notion K
of a spirit;” and the particular extract I have given jj
becomes interesting when considered together with K
what we have recently heard as to the fourth dimen- j)
sion of space and with pur experiences of modern K
Spiritualism. ' I)
More appears to have held that all material things |(
have three dimensions—length, breadth, and pro- p
fundity—and that no two of them can be in the same
place at one time : a proposition which will, probably,
not be contested; but that to spirit must be accorded
a fourth dimension, the faculty of variable density ;;
that spirit permeates matter and itself; and that two
or more spirits can occupy a space that could be
fully occupied by'one ; permeating each other, and
each retaining its individuality. R, Maitland,
LIGHT SORELY NEEDED.
GEORGE JACOB HOLTQAKE, ON THE OCCASION OE HIS
daughter’s DEATH,
In vain ye ask iRe to believe
Your dogmas, creeds, and rules of life;
No loving Father e’er would weave
A scene evolving guilt and strife.
Nor can one will belief or lovte;
Both to the heart unbidden come:
The former may a blessing prove,
The latter has my life undone.
Seek where ye will, my worthy friend—
Go wing your flight through boundless space—
God is unknown. Ye cannot bend
My mind to see your Maker’s face.
* Millions of planets like this world
Roll through their orbits in the sky;
Erom chaos these have been unfurled;
They live like us—like us they die.
Fetch from the depths of Persia’s sea
f One sparkling grain of golden sand.
And note its matchless symmetry!
Its form, like ours, shows Nature’s hand.
If such a being as a God
Exist, He must creation fill.
And yonder simple upturned sod
Must, like the stars, display His skill.
But ye teach God upon a throne
Arrayed in glorious robes and white—
Teach bliss is for the few alone,
Whilst nobler men are worthless quite—
That parents fond may never see
Their erring children passed away-—
That Satan, in his hellish glee.
Mocks as repentant sinners pray.
Away, ye dotards ! and your tale
Of sin bequeathed by serpent’s guile,
Of tortured souls whose endless wail
Is heard by saints with pensive smile.
Rather than condescend to hear
A cause so utterly unjust,
So void of love and base with fear,
I ask at death to be but dust:
And yet! and yet this burning love
For my lost child—my darling pet—
Compels my thoughts to soar above:
But vain is hope—and vain regret!
Oh ! for one little radiant beam
Of light, disclosing we shall live!
For e’en the faintest rippling gleam
Of hope, I countless worlds would give.
* Literally true and probably all inhabited,
f Should be seen under a microscope.
Ogt. 24, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
201
But, if immortal, then within
Each of us now resides the germ
Of endless life which all must win
From Nature’s laws. This 1 affirm !
So, then, ye learned folks, whose creed
Fills with contempt the fearless mind,
Now, in my great, my crying need.
Prove life’s in death—or get behind!
Ye cannot! No ! Ye talk in vain,
And prate of what ye do not know;
Haste from my presence, nor again
With nonsense seek to stem my woe.
Ye elements which give us birth,
Welcome the weary to your breast—
Give me, 0 gentle mother Earth,
Release from pain—Oblivion’s rest.
ASTROLOGY.——INFORMATION WANTED.
Sir,—It is one of the most interesting doctrines of astrology
that the feelings of love and sympathy between two individuals
are found to accord with the relationship which the sun and moon
in one horoscope has to the sun and moon in the other. Certain
aspects or positions in the heavens existing between planets at
the birth of an individual are supposed to be friendly, and others
are supposed to be evil. Thus two planets in opposite quarters
of the heavens, or at 90 degs. apart, are supposed to be in evil
aspect to one another, whilst those that are separated by 60 degs.
or 120 degs. are supposed to aspect each other beneficially.
These theories, no doubt, at first glance seem absurd nonsense,
but those who pursue the subject, and compare the theories with
facts, are apt to find startling confirmation of them. In many
instances where love or close friendship is found to exist
between individuals, it is found that a comparison of the
respective places of the sun and moon at birth shows that the
luminaries in the two nativities occupy the same place, or are in
the particular relationship (60 degs. or 120 degs. apart) which
the astrologers call <e friendly.” This I have proved to be the
case in several instances. I also find that the case of Lord
Byron and his wife abundantly proves the truth of the doc¬
trine about uncongenial partners.'
Since, however, a few isolated confirmations of a theory are
not sufficient to build up any scientific opinion upon, I am
desirous of obtaining as many dates and places of birth as
possible of married couples and of close friends, in order to see
whether the doctrines apply equally well to everyday life. What
are particularly desired are undoubted examples of perfectly
happy married lives, or unquestionably unhappy ones.
I require no names, nor is the hour of birth of serious moment,
though in each case it would be better to have it than not. It
is so very easy for outsiders to imagine that couples are really
suited to one another without such being actually the inner
experience of the persons most concerned, that there may be
some difficulty in finding good test cases. The case of the late
Mr. John Stuart Mill and his wife was unquestionably an
example of a happy union, as that of Charles Dickens was the
reverse; but I am hot in possession of the necessary dates to
apply the test in these instances.
If, therefore, any of your readers will favour me with striking
examples either way, without communicating to me any further
particulars than those I have asked for, it will be at least a
strong presumption in favour of the doctrines of the astrologers,
in case the positions of the planets do indicate which are the
happily mated ones and which are the reverse. The result I
shall be happy to communicate to your paper, if agreeable.
F. A. B.
24, St. Ann’a-square, Manchester.
HAVE OYSTERS EYES?
Sir,—The words of Mr. Farquhar in his erudite and instructive
paper, naturally produce echoes of admiration in the minds of
those who accord with his theosophical instructions. The part of
the lecture which is most interesting to me is that on the eyes of
the bivalve mollusca. I confess that until I read his statement
thatct the bivalve mollusea have no eyesight, because none is
required in their condition,” I was amongst those teachers who
ventured to inform students that bivalve mollusca have eyes; in fact
that one of them (Spondylus gcederopus) had perhaps sixty on
the convex side, and ninety on the plane side of the mantle. The
Pinna has, at least in the specimens I have seen, about forty-
eyes, or what Professor Owen {Anatomy of Invertebrate Ani¬
mals, page 512) calls “eyesJ’ The Anomia has about forty
pallial eyes, hidden amongst the marginal tentacles, and the oyster
a greater number still. In Pecten and in Spondylus, the retinal
expansion of the circumpallial nerve encloses a vitreous body
composed of nucleated cells, in front of which is a flattened
crystalline lens; the pigmental coat consists at the back part of
staff-shaped corpuscles, and in front terminates by a circular
pupil. In most other bivalves the simple elements for exciting
touch to a sense of sight—viz., a nerve-mass and pigment-mass—
are alone found without any dioptric adjuncts for the recognition
of an image. The late Sir Anthony Carlisle {Hunterian Ora¬
tion, ISM) first showed that oysters were sensible of light,
having observed that they closed their valves when the shadow
of an approaching boat was thrown forward, so as to cover them
before any undulation of the water could have reached them.
A careful consideration of some of these facts may lead us to
infer that the organ of sight not only exists, but is well deve¬
loped in most bivalve mollusca.
The vicinity of Drury Lane Theatre shows me a house of re¬
freshment termed the “ Whistling Oyster f but an oyster desti¬
tute of eyesight must be a being fated to sorrow ; and indeed a
monstrum horrendum, informe, inyens, cui lumen ademptum.
C. Carter Blake.
ASTROLOGICAL EVIDENCES.
Sir,—Zadkiel, in his Almanac for 1879, under October, has
the following :•—“ A fortunate direction (midheaven to tbe’ sextile
of the sun in the zodiac) in the royal horoscope tells of gain and
victory for Old England; still the stationary position of Mars, so
near the ascendant, will bring some trouble—the wise wifi under¬
stand.” The capture of Cabulis the “ victory; ” as to the “gain,”
humph! and let us hope that the prediction of further “ trouble ’’
will oe satisfied by that which has become politically inevitable,
and will not affect Her Majesty personally. Good and evil in
the horoscope of sovereigns may denote events of either political
or personal concern. C. Cl M.
AN ERROR SOMEWHERE.
Sir,—Will you kindly allow me to correct an error in your
leading article of last week, which is likely to convey a false
impression to the minds of your readers? To the best of my
recollection I did not “refuse” you a copy of the “General
Purposes Committee’s Report.” I could hardly have done so,
for the report was then in the printer’s hands, and therefore
beyond my power to give or withhold.
What I did decline to give you was a copy of the answers sent
to the memorialists, because, these being addressed to private
persons, they could not be made public until they had been
sent to the individuals for whom they were intended. I was
in this acting under instructions.—Yours faithfully,
O. A. Burke, Sec, B.N.A.S.
38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., Oct. 2Qtb, 1879.
[There is some mistake here. It was only in my mind to ask for the report
of the General Purposes Committee, and I did not want tiie letters to the
memorialists, which were certain to reach me in due course.—W. H. Har¬
rison.]
ON THE WEIGHING OF MEDIUMS.
Sir,—I have read with much interest your description of the
seance testing the self-registering machine presented by Mr.
Blackburn, and offer some remarks thereon in the fight of some
previous theorising in your pages. I \yish in these remarks to
be considered simply as a seeker after truth, and not as writjng
in any dogmatic spirit.
I have never personally witnessed a materialisation; but the
“ Sceptic ” who wrote in your pages as “ W. H. C.” is well-
known to me, and about a fortnight previously I had an almost
identical description of what took place at another of these
meetings from another gentleman who described what he also
had witnessed. Hence, combined with the engravings and letter-
press relation in The Spiritualist, I feel satisfied that I am
dealing, to a certain extent, with facts. About the alleged
reduction of the weight of the medium, I do not see that this
202
reduced weight proves that his body is drawn upon, in its
material part, to supply the duplicated form. Many of my
own mesmeric experiments tend to confirm the opinion ex¬
pressed in Isis Unveiled, that levitation of persons and things
is caused by a change of their mesmeric influence overcoming
the law of gravitation. On this point Madame Blavatsky
speaks as if she had certain knowledge. It may be that it is
merely the mesmeric life of the medium which is absorbed in
this manifestation. Elsewhere “ W. H. C.” informs us that
whilst he had hold of the hand of the duplicate, Mr. Blackburn
felt the substantial head of the medium presumably as in her
usual state, which tends to confirm this view.
Still you may have better proof of your own particular view
of this question, and if so, your readers would be much in¬
debted to you for it. John Yaeker.
Burton-road, Withington, October 17tb, 1879.
MACHINE TESTS.
Sir,—-We are all much indebted to Mr. Blackburn for his
most liberal expenditure of time and money on the subject of
materialisations.
I met Mr. Blackburn the other day, and expressed my opinion
to him that the weighing machine could not settle the"question
as to the weight of a materialised spirit, nor demonstrate that
the apparent diminution of the weight of the medium, as recorded
by the machine, had any relation to the weight of the apparition
produced, nor demonstrate that the said apparition in the room
was a separate being from the medium supposed to be in the
cabinet.
It is well known that spirits can make any body light or heavy
at will; and if they wished to humour the idea that the medium
always became lighter in exact relation to the solidification of
the apparition, all they required to do was to tilt up the machine.
This explanation, indeed, is manifest from the record in this
day’s Spiritualist, where it is said that a spirit said he was
pushing the cabinet up and down to give the medium a ride.”
So far as my limited experience goes, I have never found the
medium sitting in the cabinet and the apparition walking about
outside at one and the same moment, although I have occasionally
seen the apparition disappear, and instantly afterwards found the
medium in the cabinet.
Mr. Blackburn tells me he has at one and the same moment
felt the medium inside the cabinet, and seen the apparition out¬
side it; and if Mr. Joad and Mr. Massey can corroborate this
statement from their own experience, it will be of great im¬
portance.
That the medium, like Mrs. Compton, can sometimes be trans¬
formed into forms big or little, male or female, with a beard
“growing into the skin,” from a smooth, shaved being, although
it does not prove the materialisation of a foreign spirit, yet, to
my mind, demonstrates in a more interesting and marvellous way
the miraculous power of spirit to form and transform.
George Wyld, M.D.
October 17. -   ■■
QUEER NEWS IN “ THE BANNER OE LIGHT.”
Sir,—The London correspondent of The Banner of Light,
who writes over the signature “Eidelity,” is a singularly
favoured individual. Among other notes of intelligence and
comment, he (or she) wrote nearly a month ago, speaking of a
“ paper printed in the interests of the theosophists (The Theoso-
phist, I suppose):—“ It is a neat little monthly, but will
scarcely be appreciated by Spiritualists in general.” The English
subscribers to The Theosophist have surely some reason to com¬
plain of the preference apparently shown to “ Eidelity ” (who j
must, of course, have seen what he or she describes) by 1/
the publishers of that paper, since none of them have ||
even yet seen a copy, or were aware, before reading j (
“ Eidenty’s” letter, that the first number had been pub- \{
lished. English Spiritualists will be hardly less surprised i)
to hear of the “profound sensation” which has been produced j)
by an article in The Whitehall Review (which I had supposed i {
to be the least known of all the “ Society ” papers) about Mr. i (
J. W. Eletcher. If it is so, I imagine they will not be par- ]
ticularly well pleased at the extensive currency thus obtained for I)
a scandalous aspersion on Dr. Slade from the mouth of another j?
professional medium. Mr. Eletcher, I observe, is now a member l(
of the Council of the British National Association of Spirit- n
ualists, and of their General Purposes Committee—one whom i;
they have delighted to honour. Who, I wonder, is “Eidelity ?” i(
A Subscriber to “ The Theosophist,” and an old j j
“Slade Committeeman.”
SPIKITUALISM AT THE ANTIPODES.
Mr. Tyerman has succeeded in creating a stir at
Adelaide, and drawing out the dean of that city, who,
at the end of one of Mr. Tyerman's lectures, entered
into a discussion with him, lasting about an hour.
This is reported in the S. A. Register, and naturally
attracted more attention to the subject. A committee
was formed who hired a hall for a month, in which
Mr. Tyerman has been actively engaged in the dis¬
semination of free-thought and spiritualistic ideas to
numerous audiences. It is probable he would have
laboured longer there but for the receipt of a
peremptory call from Dunedin, where the local associa¬
tion want him to succeed Mrs. Britten. He arrived
here on Sunday and left again on Tuesday, having to
commence his New Zealand lectures on the 10th
inst. During his stay in Adelaide the press reported
him fairly, and in a controversy about Sunday charges
publishes his letters in defence.—Harbinger of Light,
August.
THE OFFICIAL REPLIES TO THE PUBLIC
MEMORIALS.
The following is the reply of the Council of the
National Association of Spiritualists to the Memorial
which asked that the affairs of the Association should
be thrown into the hands of its members, that they
might give their impartial decision by vote upon
the points at issue. It was sent to each of the
memorialists:—
Sir, — I am directed by the Council of the
British National Association of Spiritualists to
acknowledge the receipt of your communication pre¬
sented at its last meeting, in which you complain of
certain alleged results due to the large number of
those who, by the constitution of the Association, are
enabled to accept a seat upon its Council, and in
which you request the Council, on receipt of the
communication in question, to send a circular to all
the members of the Association, accompanied by
voting papers, and an unabridged verbatim copy of
your Memorial; and, in reply, I am directed to state
that, whilst the Council is prepared to take into
careful consideration any proposal brought forward
with a view to increasing the efficiency of the Asso¬
ciation, it is of opinion that, having regard to the
existing rules laid down for its guidance, it has no
power to comply with your request as above, but
that the matter would be a fair subject for discussion
at the proper time, viz., the next annual meeting.—
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
C. A. Burke, Secretary.
British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O., October 16th, 1879.
The “ existing rules ” were not found, some years
since, to prevent the members at large voting over
the “Christianity Clause.”
The following is the official reply to the second
Memorial:—
Sir,—I am directed by the Council of the British
National Association of Spiritualists to acknowledge
the receipt of your second Memorial, which was read
at its meeting on the 14th instant, and ordered to
lie on the table.—I am, sir, your obedient servant,
C. A. Burke, Secretary.
British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., Oct. 16tb, 1879.
HE SPIBJ^JtJAJblST^   24, l879*
Oct. 24, 1879.
203
THE SPIRITUALIST.
REMARKABLE TEST MANIFESTATIONS. j j
Mr. C. Willis Reade, of Cleveland, Ohio, writes m
to The BanTier of Light of October 4th :— m
“A few weeks since I was introduced to a young |jj
man about twenty-two years of age, R. Davidson |>]
having heard him highly spoken of by prominent |(j
Spiritualists of this city. He gave me an invitation | j
to attend a private seance at his house a few even- i||
ings since. The manifestations were wonderful, m
Having seen some of the most noted mediums, I must j | f
say that the tests he gave us were the most satisfac- j j
tory I ever , witnessed. Thinking there might have |u
been some one in collusion with him, and desiring to 111
test him thoroughly, I gave him an invitation to call ju
at my house on a Wednesday evening, which he jjj
accepted, and came alone, about eight o’clock. I m
had given invitations to six of my friends, who came j / j
at half-past seven o’clock. We cleared the large |||
dining-room of all the furniture except ten chairs m
and a large extension table, and then partitioned off m
a corner in the room with a sheet. We had procured |/ 'i
from a music-store six guitars and two tambourines, m
also four bells. I said to Mr. Davidson that we had j H
been arranging the room for a stance, hoping to hear | \ |
from some of his spirit-friends. He said that he did j)j
not care about sitting, but he finally consented. He j\j
submitted to a careful examination of his clothing, and i) j
the examiners certified that no apparatus or other j > j
contrivance were concealed on or about his person. f|!
We then sewed his cuffs together, and his arms to the l>j
sides of his vest, then tied his feet, and wound the m
balance of the thread around him and around the |>|
chair, then placed it ip the corner of the room which j (I
we had curtained off for a cabinet. We then placed jjj
the instruments about four feet from him. The light j (j
was then placed in an adjoining room, with the door jj
open, and sufficient light was permitted in the room j| j
to enable us to see what followed. I omit a detailed jjj
account of the Babel of sounds which arose in the j(j
cabinet. Then, in a few seconds, the instruments m
were seen floating over our heads, held by hands of (j
all sizes. While the instruments were suspended in jj
mid-air, the light was called for by the medium, who \ j
was found intact, as we had left him ; not a stitch or jjj
thread had been tampered with. The curtain was jjj
again closed, all as before, when the medium sug- jjj
gested that the light be placed in the opposite jjj
corner, and turned down low. I placed the light as jjj
requested, and returned to my seat. We sat holding jjj
hands for about five minutes, when the medium was jjj
seen suspended above the top of the cabinet. He jjj
was held in that position a few seconds, and then jjj
began floating around the room and back again to the jjj
cabinet, and placed in front, on the outside of the ijj
cabinet. (This last manifestation was like one which jjj
I witnessed at a seance by Home, the medium.) jjj
“ The medium sat for about ten minutes in an jjj
unconscious condition, after he had come from under jjj
the control, and he complained of feeling very tired, jjj
so we sat with joined hands around the table. While jjj
doing so, Mr. Davidson said if I would send and get j)j
two slates we probably would have some writing. I jji
sent to a store near by and procured two. When jjj
they were brought into the room he said, ‘Do not jj
bring those slates near me, but get a piece of cord 1)1
and fasten them together, first putting a small piece
of pencil between the folds.’ Having done as
suggested I placed the slates on the table. Bear in
mind that the medium did not ask me to write
names on pellets, nor did I, so there was no chance
to say he exchanged them to get the names. During
the time the slates lay on the table raps were heard
all over the carpet on the floor. The sound of the
pencil was also distinctly heard writing between the
slates. Then three raps were heard on top of the
slates, and on opening them a message was found
written on the inside, covering about one-third of
one slate, with my mother’s name signed in full.
(My mother has been dead twenty years.) The slate
was again washed, and Mr. Davidson requested that
each one of us hold the slates in turn, and when we
heard three raps to pass them to the next. We did
so, and on opening the slates we found the names
and ages of all of us had been written on the inside
of the slates.”
THE LISTENING OAK.
She found the old familiar spot
Beneath the green oak tree;
She sighed—she sighed—“ He loves me not.
And I’m alone—ah me ! ”
It watched her there—the fond old oak—
For trees have eyes like other folk;
It whispered, whispered, “ Hearts may roam
But late or early Love comes home ! ”
He stood where they so oft had met.
He flung away her flower;
“ Ah me ! ” he cried, “ Coquette, coquette!
To love me but an hour! ”
But loudly sang the angry oak.
For trees have hearts like other folk ;
And chiding, chiding was the song,
“ The heart that loves believes no wrong ! ”
There’s some one stealing on apace,
And some one’s arms thrown wide,
And some one’s heart is some one’s place
At happy eventide.
The tears, the doubts, are gone, are gone,
And gaily now the oak looks on.
And sings to them of joy and rest,
“ The love thafs tried is happiest! ”
—Banner of Light.
Me. and Mrs. William Tebb may be expected home almost
hourly from their tour in the United States, since they left New
York in the s.s. City of Berlin on the 13th of October. Before
leaving Mr. Tebb started an anti-vaccination society in New
York, under the presidency of Dr. Wilder.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
It. D. G-., St. Louis, U.S.—Your letter has been forwarded to one of the Rosicru-
cians interested in the matter.
A.—Your communications are getting unreadable again. The compositors
object to set type from them.
F., Sydney, N.S.W.—You are long behind the age. We cannot waste space in
discussing the imposture theory of spiritual manifestations.
Y.—Whenever the word “ Magnetism’’is inserted in communications to this
journal, as one of the powers connected with the human body, we alter it to
“Mesmerism,” for “ Magnetism" is the force which attracts iron, and which
the human body does not. The application of the word “ Magnetism” to
something entirely different, marks a want of education in physical science
on the part of the writer.
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late "'Nil. Gregory, M.D., F.E.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size,
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. Gd. post free.]
CONTENTS
OH APT EE I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTEE II •—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTEE III:—Sympathy — Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Eash Experiments—Public- Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage-
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Eeading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTEE IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Eegard to Absent Persons—Betrovision—Introvision.
OHAPTEE V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Eetrovision and Prevision—-Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTEE VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling's Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Eesults—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator-
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTEE VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTEE VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTEE IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Eesearches of Eeichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—^Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTEE X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and: Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—^Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Keading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTEE XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effe -tR of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley's Method—Cases1—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
OH APTEE XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Eecently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep-
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Oases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley's Case of
Eetrovision.
CHAPTEE XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTEE XV:—Trance —Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
- CHAPTEE XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Eemarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-Street, London.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it. now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Gralileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Scien/::, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
(j The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
) | science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
> i untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
) | private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
(| by any member of the family. At the present time there are
(I only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe-
v i nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
\j tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
) i be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
) | great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro-
) | tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
) 1 the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
h which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
§1. duped who trust in worthless authorities.
I \ One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
\ | ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
) I new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc-
) I tions, obtains the phenomena:—
)| 1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no intefrup-
/! tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
(| 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
(; the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
)\ to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
) i wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
)! top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
); little importance. ■ Any table will do.
) \ 3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
(I but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
(j • 4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
(i general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
(! should be of a frivolous nature.
{| , 5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
) | feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
; | indications will probably be table-tilting or raps,
n 6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
(i to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
(i the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
\ I three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
) | t Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
) i If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
) i letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
); to the letter you want, and spell us out a message?” Should
(j three signals be given, Set to work on the plan proposed, an
(j from this time an intelligent system of communication is
\! established.
{j 7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
) i trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
>; messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
)! usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
)| objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
(j the observers should not go to the other extreme aud give way
(j to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
(I or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
\ | undeniable proof.
|i 8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
)j beeause no medium chances to be present, try again with other
) | sitters. A medium is . usually an impulsive individual, very sensi-
? i tive to mesmeric influences.
<i u Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
(] not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
\ | week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
>1 stimulus of mediumship altogether.
204
THE STIUITUALIST.
Oct. 24, 1879.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
Oct, H 1879.    THE SPIRITUALIST.
Cloth, small 8v6, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and iise
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse- or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion-, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from Wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Axlen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Just Published, Price One Shilling.
HAMARTIA:
An Inquiry into the Nature and Origin of Evil
BY J. W. FARQUJSAR.
In this treatise the relation of the lower animate
creation to man; and the final perfection and immor¬
tality of each individual life in him, are deduced from
the teachings of Scripture and confirmed by Reason.
A very thoughtful pamphlet, well deserving the
attention of all students of the Bible, as well as of all
students of their own hearts. Whether the author of
this pamphlet hits the mark or not, he will certainly
aid others in their attempts to understand why they so
often miss \t.—The Spectator. ■
We have read this thoughtful and fine-toned essay
with much interest and sympathy, and nan heartily
commend it to all students whose eschatological views
have not yet run and hardened into the “ orthodox ”
forni. To as many as have been led to question “ the
traditions of the fathers” concerning the world to
come, it will be very welcome.—J'Ae Expositor.
London: Elliot Stock, 62, Paternoster Row.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN¬
GER AND EPHBMERIS for 1880: Containing
Pi’edictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, With a large Hieroglyphic.
“ Raphael’s ’’ is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
< f the current year, even to the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free,, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London : S. E. CATTY, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
~ BAZAAR
AT NEWCASTLE - ON - TYNE.
THE BAZAAR in aid of the effort to
obtain a Lecture Room, and Premises in this
town, more worthy of our beloved cause, will be held
in the Lecture Room of the Newcastle Spiritual
Evidence Society; on Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday, October 28th, 29th, and 30th. Contri¬
butions towards the same, either in money or goods
for sale, will be most thankfully received by the
nnder-mentioned Ladies
Mrs. J. Mould; 12, St. Thomas-crescent, Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
Mrs. W. 0. Robson, 8, Brandling-place West, New-
eastle-on-Tyhe:
Mrs. W. Hunter, 89, High-street, Gateshead.
Mrs. J; Hare, 15; Chester-crescent, NewCastle-on-
T> ne.
Mrs, J. Hammarborn, 117, Nbrthumberlahd-street,
N e wcastle-on-Tyne.
Mrs, Henry Norris, 59, Newgate-streef, NewCastle-
on'Tyne,
Miss Coltman, 4; Picton-terrace, Newcastle-on-Tyrie.
Miss G.-E, Wood, 3, Sunderland-stfeet, Newcastle-
oh-Tyne, •
Miss E. H, Elliott, Albert-drive, Low Fell, Gates¬
head.
British national associa
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
strCet, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to siances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 pun.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can Only accommodate four persons.
Terms, hoard and all included; £3 per week each ; or,
for two persons, £2 IPs. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., cars of M. A. Mallet 8 Rn« do
®esso»erie, IVw
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN The VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of.articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism; given through the
writing mediumship of M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement,
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death." Given
through the trance-mediumship of Dora L. Y. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-ihediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
YI,—Angel-Guarded.
VII. —Aa Alleged Post MOrtem WOrk by Charles
Dickens. How the Writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckeraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherhe) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
Wnite, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV!—Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI.—Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
’ XVII.—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haimtmg Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
i Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Siance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXtII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon."
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII. — Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs, Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey,
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
rflHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
JL OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series Of illustrations; setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Proioplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The ,Spi«fwhh'.s<newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, 63d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
iii
Post Free. Price Five Shillings; Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace oh Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers -
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—^Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
hy Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? — Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship —Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. O. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Croshy
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership ■— Swedenborg — Kardee vg- Chaseray —
Cabanis ^ Coleridge —; Bacon 4- Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV,.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism :on Morality-
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss—Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS PROM THE INNER LiEE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII; The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gttrda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare —XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “ Birdie’s Spirit Song ’’—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. 01 still Live ”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C.
TJEYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes
J V psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears ori the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anohyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
iv
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
Christmas Phidding,
USE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S EEUIT SAILT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FKUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world."
QTIMULANTS AND INSUFFICIENT
lO AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—WOOD Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c„ use
EIO’S EBUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S '
XA_ FRUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
TT'AGGED, WEARY, AND WORN
J_ OUT! ! 1 Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“14, Ruedela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Bbrad.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and tee the capsule is
marled “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.'’ Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2j. 9d. and 4*. 6d.
Prepared only by JVC. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS,
Hatcham, London, S.E.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price Five Shillings. Grown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose WHtings.
I. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—4. The Oastle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!"—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes."
—24 The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. —29. The July Bug.— 30. The Converted
Carman.  —■ ■■ ■■■
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s, The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.C.
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISME,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mens. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
DR. CARTER-BLAKE’S BRITISH
MUSEUM LECTURES will be recommenced
in the middle of October next, when arrangements on
a large scale will be made to render the British Museum
(as suggested by the Principal Librarian) useful for
the purposes of general tuition before schools.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
October, 1879.] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
The Devil of Mascon—An Ignored Scripture Pro¬
mise : A.M.—Physical Immortality: 3. W. F.—Popular
Errors and Objections to Spiritualism Explained and
Answered—A Boy’s Memory—Modern Spiritualism:
its Rise and Progress. With a brief Account of its
Facts and Theories: J. S. Farmer.—Notes and Glean¬
ings : The Imperative Necessity of Testing Mediums ;
A Comfortable Consideration; The Forthcoming Auto¬
biography of Dr. Newton ; Professor Wagner, Spirit¬
ualism and its Opponents ; Spiritualism on Board the
Cuzo; A Scientific Basis for Faith ; Fichte on the
Unreliability of Great Names in Spirit Communica¬
tions; A Curious Incident relating to the Prince
Imperial; “Believes that he believes;” Faith and
Reason; How Little the World Misses any Man ;
Cured by a Spirit. Poetry—Believe and Trust: S. C.
Hall.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW Hay Nisbet & Co., 62, Ropevyork-kme
Oct. 24, 1879.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The 11 Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . ,76
The Teacher. ,» II. „ . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ ..76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . ,76
The Thinker. mV. , ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People . . . . ... ,76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life ... .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health 7 6
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . ,60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained , 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . .30
Morning Lectures ... . . .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE BIRKBEOK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCBOFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
CONTENTS.
Mediums. By Christian Reimers    193
Test Mediumship   194
“Annihilation"     196
The Kingdom of Heaven    197
Review: —An Essay on Spiritual Evolution con¬
sidered in its Bearing upon Modern Spiritual¬
ism, Science, and Religion. By J. P. B  197
Powerful Spiritual Manifestations. By F. Arun-
dale    198
Remembrance and Oblivion. By Henry G.
Atkinson, F.G.S  198
A Spiritualistic Funeral at Hammersmith 198
Weighing Machine Experiments  199
Mr. Martheze’s Voyage Round the World  199
Spiritualism in Distant Regions   199
Robert Dale Owen    199
The “ Fourth Dimension ” .'  200
Light Sorely Needed. George Jacob Holyoake,
on the Occasion of his Daughter’s Death  200
Correspondence:—Astrology: Information Wanted
—Have Oysters Eyes ?—Astrological Evi¬
dences — An Error Somewhere — On the
Weighing of Mediums—Machine Tests—Queer
News in The Banner of Light    201
Spiritualism at the Antipodes    202
The Official Replies to the Public Memorials  202
Remarkable Test Manifestations  203
The Listening Oak...   203
Answers to Correspondents   203
Paragraph:—Prevision   199
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Full wood's Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, Lon ion, and pub
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London
E.C
