llEGISTKREU AS A NEWSPAPER.
ajvff) 03^ f^Ydao^o^id^^
^ (jDIfrast foit^f m $xmt  
No. 381. (Yol. XY.—No. 24.) LONDON: FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1879. Published Weekly ; Price Twopence.
JAMES IA1TBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everyth.ing of the best Q,iiality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LI&HTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May he obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.,
Will be opened next Monday, when catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of
postage of books. Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. iP. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, <£1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of j The Theosophist,’ f at the above address.
Just Published. A Catalogue of a curious and interesting
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
ON MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT, PSYCHOLOGY,
And other Kindred Subjects. Posted Free on Application.
PORiX THOUSAND OF STANDARD BOOKS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION ALWAYS ON SALE,
Libraries and Small Parcels, of Books Bought or Exchanged.
Charles lowe, broad street, Birmingham.
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Just arrived from America. A NEW B.OOK by
EUGENE CROWELL, M.p.,
THE SPIRIT WORLD:
Its Inhabitants, Nature, and Philosophy.
Price 6s. 6d., post free. Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). Prom the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner and Co., London.
Ju§t Published.
S P I R I T - I D E N T I T Y.
By (Qxon.).’
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges, Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Sjnritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and setting
forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The EEV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BY
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
Crown 8vq, pp. 156, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism^ Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“This is a very ingenious work. . . . His eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Just Published.
TRE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 6s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, §8, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Dec. 12, 1879.
MR. c. K WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till ,5. Qn Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At Rome every day except Sunday),
"Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
street, every Sunday night.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
1G4, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
' Ohnrch (Monday arid Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured iu a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MR. A. H. FURMAN
(Medium of Count de Bullet)
Will hold his
I/OME CIRCLE
Every Tuesday and Friday Evening at Half-past Eigh
o’clock, at his Rooms
26, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, LONDON
Mr. Firman will be at home every day, except Sun¬
day, from 12 till 5, to make arrangements for Private
Sittings.
■\rOTICE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
1_N NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily;
and eight to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
4, Grenyillq-street, Brunswick-square.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE,
of the Fox Sisters, of New York City, U.S.
gives seances at her rooms every Tuesday, Thursday,
and Friday, from 3 to G p.m. Private evening seances
from 8 to ip, either at house of party or at Mrs.
Kane’s rooms, must be made by letters sent to Mrs
Kane, at 4, Grenville street, Brunswick-square. No
private seances wtll be given on the above days adver¬
tised for seances from 3 to 6 p.m.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
Researches in the phenomena
. OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London.
W.C.
eJAs
eJA»
J. xtf to ttf to SDtoc*$ aM ethics af Sgit[ituaUsm*
No. 384,—VotujviE fifteen; Number twenty-four,
J^OISTDON. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12th, 1879.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HABRISON.
33, British Muspum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Russia, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Right Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika),
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.
C. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq.,author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dntch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
O. F. Varjey, Esq., O.E., F-R.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D,
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. O.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 6, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Royal, Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor BOcca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 87, Rue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Russell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia ; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application
rnHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the authqr, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas-
odon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise sdw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O,
A CURIOUS PRESENTIMENT.
BY C. C. MASSEY.
The following extract from a private letter records
a case of presentiment belonging to a large and pecu¬
liar class; much larger, it may be surmised, than is
likely to be generally known, owing to the very
peculiarity which gives it special interest and signifi¬
cance. The trivial is not often recorded, and, unfor¬
tunately, triviality in the matter of occult communi¬
cations is considered a reason for neglecting them,
instead of being recognised, on that very ground,
cLS
the more suggestive;
I can only say of the writer of
the following that she is a lady very well known to me,
of quite exceptional education and intelligence, and of
the most scrupulous veracity. Her letter is dated
December 2nd, and I received it the following day.
“ Ten days ago there came to me a conviction that
I should find in the Echo—the name of the paper
came to me clearly—an announcement of the illness
of the Queen. I mentioned this presentiment to
  on the instant; and the forecast continuing
to oppress me, I have daily told various persons of
my expectation, the source of which I could not
trace, for I could not recollect the Royal family
having been in any way called to my mind at any
recent date. Moreover, we take the Times and
Daily News, as well as the Echo; so why should
the Echo be my medium of information ? However,
that was the first paragraph I saw on taking up the
Echo, which reached us by this morning’s post.”
Now what I find suggestive in the above and
similar cases is this. There is an utter absence of
'purpose in the anticipation or any trace of a motive
which we would ascribe to a foreign intelligence. No
conceivable object could be served by this lady know¬
ing ten days before that she would see a particular
piece of intelligence which did not concern her more
than any other subject of Her Majesty. Does it not
rather point (1) to the fact, so often insisted upon by
Dr. Wyld, that our own souls or spirits are organs of
powers unsuspected in our normal consciousness ?
and (2) to the Kantian principle that time is only
the form of our consciousness, not an absolute, objec¬
tive condition of all existence ? This form, if and
when we can in any way transcend it, would no
longer condition our knowledge, in which events,
phenomenally future, would be revealed as present.
It is a fact much to be regretted that the attention of
Spiritualists is almost exclusively directed to the
evidences of disembodied soul, and that thus many
most significant facts, which are in reality the
strongest possible confirmations of our own supersen-
suous being, are either misinterpreted or neglected.
“ Occultism ” and theosophy seek to discover our own
latent powers. That these are verce causes such facts
as the above seem to prove, to the extent that they
2*78 The spi
go; we have then to decide how much they will
explain. So with regard to the well-ascertained fact
of physical duplication. Explanations of phenomena
put forward by Dr. Wyld, Colonel Olcott, and
Madame Blavatsky, as partially applicable, have been
treated as wholly unverified phenomena. They are
in truth founded on oar most familiar experiences in
Spiritualism—the fact of duplication both in the
region of intelligence and physical organism. It is
the foreign intelligence that has to be established in
any case, as in many cases I think it is; but logical
“ economy ” forbids the unnecessary multiplication of
explanatory causes.
Temple, Dec. 4th, 1879.
PRIVATE SEANCES.
Last Wednesday night, at a seance at the house
of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street,
Grqsvenor-square, London, Mr. C. E. Williams was
the medium, and the other sitters present were Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory, Mr. Annesley Mayne (of the
Junior Carlton Club), Miss Mattie Houghton, Mr. F.
W. Percival, M.A., Mr. Ward, Mrs. Duncan, Miss
Duncan, and Mr. Harrison.
In the dark, while all the other guests present sat
with joined hands, one of the spirits took Mr. Ward’s
music stool from him, and bumped it about the
room, so that he had a chase after it and its invisible
mover before he could take his seat at the har¬
monium. While Mr. Williams was held by the
hands by Mr. Mayne on the one side, and by
Mrs. Duncan on the other, the living face of
the spirit John King, robed in white drapery, was
seen four or five times by everybody present, floating
over the table, illuminated by a flashing, phospho¬
rescent-like light held in his hands. Lastly, while
Mr. Williams was similarly held, a spirit hand
grasped the hand of Mr. Percival, and quickly pulled
him upwards, so that he had first to mount his
chair, and then to stand with his feet on the top of
the table, to follow the motions of the hand drawing
him towards the ceiling. Mr. Williams was held in
his seat and quietly talking at the time.
At this seance; and at two previous ones in the
same room with Mrs. Hollis Billing, Mr. Serjeant
Cox was stated to be present among the spirits, but
he has not been able as yet to give evidence of
identity. As, while in earth-life, he was to the last
a constant member of the circle, and one deeply
interested in its work, there is no question but that
he must be earnestly striving to communicate with it
if means exist.
Mb. F. 0. Matthews, the test trance medium, has returned
to Halifax to fulfil a few provincial engagements before settling
permanently in London.
SuBSCKiPiiONS for the supply of The Spiritualist during 1880
are now due, price 10s. lOd. within the limits of Great Britain,
and the British and Foreign Postal Union.
Db. Robebt Fbiese, who returned to Germany last Wednes¬
day, after some weeks in England occupied in the observation of
spiritual phenomena, was born in Elbing, Prussia, in 1817. Until
eighteen months ago he was Doctor of Philosophy at one of the
High Schools at Breslau. He says that owing to the promptings
of spirits he then applied for and received his pension, thus gain¬
ing leisure to make himself more fully acquainted with Spirit¬
ualism, and to write his book, Voices from the Spirit Land
recently published in Germany.
KITHALIST. Dec. 12, 1879.
THE THEOSOPHISTS IN INDIA.
Sir,—I beg to forward a copy of The Pioneer
j | (Allahabad) of October 11th. Should your space
\| permit, you would oblige the Fellows of the Theo-
(} sophical Society, and possibly interest some others of
H your readers, by copying into your paper the article
) | on The Theosophist. It should be observed that the
•)4 Pioneer, while fully maintaining its [independent
\ | position in the Press of India, is (as I am informed)
)| regarded as in a special sense the organ of the
{| Viceroy. All the friends of the American party now
resident in Bombay will read with satisfaction the
| concluding paragraph; and I think all who are in-
| terested in the higher and more recondite pursuits of
)l Spiritualism will see reason to rejoice in the liberality
’•] and encouragement with which the literary under-
11 taking of the Theosophical Society in India has been
M received by a leading and representative newspaper
! I in that country. C. 0. Massey.
1! Temple, Dec. 1st.
ij From (< The Pioneer” (Allahabad), Oct. 11th, 1879.
The Theosophist, a new magazine conducted by
*| Madame Blavatsky, has just been published at
i! Bombay. It is described on the cover as “a monthly
j journal devoted to Oriental philosophy, art, literature,
ij and occultism, embracing mesmerism, spiritualism,
j and other secret sciences/’ Many of our readers will
have been aware that the branch of the Theosophical
| Society, established at Bombay, proposed to bring
| out this periodical, and will have looked forward with
interest to its appearance. The magnitude and
| intelligence of the correspondence which has now for
| some time been going forward in our own columns
in reference to one among the group of mystic subjects
with which the new magazine proposes to deal, will
| have shown that for such a publication a considerable
| public will readily be found. And any one who has
j looked into Madame Blavatsky’s great work, Isis
i Unveiled, will be aware that the Theosophist is under
! the guidance of a lady whose mystic erudition is more
j than impressive —■ absolutely overwhelming. All
I languages, philosophies, and creeds, all lands and
| ages appear to have been strained to supply her with
j occult knowledge, and the only complaint of the
| ordinary reader will be that his faculties are dazzled
I by the coruscations of classic, Oriental, and mystic
quotations and references, with which her pages
I abound. One cannot see the forest for the trees;
| one cannot tell, sometimes, what our instructress is
driving at, so wonderful are the literary tours de
I force in which she indulges on the way. Indeed,
| one may spend much anxious thought over Isis
Unveiled without being able to discover that the
| object of our adoration is any less veiled than
j before. But surviving the bewilderment superin¬
duced by the book, there remains a clear impres-
I sion that Madame Blavatsky knows more, has
] thought more, and, one is tempted to add, wrought
| more in connection with the supernatural side of
| things than nny other person who has addressed the
literary world on that extraordinary topic, and it is
j needless to point out that a monthly magazine under
| her auspices cannot but become a periodical of strong
I interest for the large and varied public lying between
the two religious extremes—atheistic materialism on
Dec. 12, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
279
the one side and simple orthodoxy on the other. })
The contents of the first number of the Theosophist j<
are to a great extent introductory. We meet first |)
with a long article entitled “What is Theosophy ? ” K
and its rich erudition, so clearly from the same fount j)
as that of Isis, reveals the authorship at a glance. ]l
We will not attempt the task of epitomising the j)
explanations given. Readers, anxious to know what |(
is theosophy, cannot expect to get their curiosity j)
satisfied without a good deal of patient investigation, j (
The article referred to is succeeded by another, |)
entitled “What are the Theosophists ?” and it would j\
seem that a good deal of study as to the nature of j)
theosophy may leave us still requiring enlightenment N
concerning the nature or the persons who profess that |)
science. Meanwhile it is satisfactory to gather from
the information now conveyed that “the root idea of |/
the society is free and fearless investigation.” ■ The js
present number of the new magazine gives a great j /
deal besides the explanatory essays just mentioned— j\
a remarkable native autobiography, some philo- j)
sophical articles, a review of the Light of Asia, and K
sundry stories and anecdotes. It announces, more- j)
over, that the society from which the Theosophist j>
emanates is about to undertake a series of interest- j (
ing meetings at its head-quarters in Bombay. We |)
read :—“ There will be a course of Saturday evening j (
lectures by Colonel Olcott upon the occult sciences in |)
general, with experimental demonstrations in the I (
branches of mesmerism, psychometry, crystallomancy, |)
and possibly Spiritualism.” The Theosophist will, <
no doubt, duly record the results. Finally, though i)
the cultivated world generally will receive the un- |(
familiar teaching of the energetic society with great j>
caution, we may all recognise that its Bombay mem- |(
bers have one clearly defined claim on our regard, j)
They are people w7ho in a very disinterested 'way, for !<
the love of their own intellectual convictions and to [|
pursue what they believe to be truth, have become K
fellow-sojourners with the rest of us in this remark- jj
able country, which, in spite of its good points, we ij
most of us frequent for very much simpler and less |)
elevated motives. It does not follow that we are less j)
useful on that account: much good work is done for I)
the sake of its pay, and the reflection has a wide !\
application in British India. But still it is only |)
right to recognise the moral dignity of persons whose I)
aims in life are disconnected with that idea. And j)
as bearing on that view of the Theosophists, we are |(
glad to be able to conclude this notice of their new I <
venture by an announcement of a satisfactory kind n
as regards themselves. It will be remembered that j(
in the beginning of this year their feelings were |j
deeply hurt on the occasion of a trip they made up- j (
country by an insulting espionage set on foot against j)
them by the police. It appears that some groundless | <
calumny had preceded them to this country, and that j >
the police put a very clumsy construction upon cer- j (
tain orders they received from Government respecting j >
the new arrivals. However, since then the subject \\
has been brought specially to the Viceroy’s notice, i)
and, satisfied that the Theosophists were misrepre- j(
sented in the first instance, he has given formal j>
orders, through the Political Department, to the |\
effect that they are not to be any longer subject to j)
interference. 1 . j)
AN ENCOUNTER WITH BURGLARS.
Last Monday, at the Lambeth Police-court, James Goff, 19,
Erith-street, Soho, cook; John Bailey, 21, Lea-street, Holborn,
boot fitter; and Henry Hayes, 26, tailor, were charged with being
concerned in breaking and entering the dwelling-house, 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, and stealing therefrom several articles.
Goff was further charged with cutting and wounding Mr. Henry
Prances (hon. sec. to the Brixton Psychological Society) by
striking him on the head with a “jemmy,” on the evening of the
29 th ult.
Mr. Prances on the evening of the 29th found his house had
been broken into and robbed. Goff and Bailey dropped from the
first floor windows, the latter for a time escaping. When the
prosecutor endeavoured to detain Goff the latter struck him
several times violently on the head with a “jemmy,” and ran up
the road. The cries of Mr. Prances for help were fortunately
heard by Mr. Tigg, a tradesman of Camberwell, who was passing
at the time. He pursued, and, after a desperate struggle,
secured Goff, and ultimately handed him over to a constable.
In the course of the pursuit Goff threw a large “jemmy” at
Mr. Tigg, and he narrowly escaped a severe blow. The
“ jemmy ” was found to correspond with marks on the door of
prosecutor’s house, which had been forced. The prisoner Bailey
was taken by Inspector Langrish, and when told, he said, “ All
right.” He was wearing a collar identified as belonging to Mr.
Prances. The other prisoner was secured on Priday night last,
and denied all knowledge of the affair, and declared likewise that
he had never been to Brixton. Upon him was found a tramway
ticket from Westminster to Brixton, and this was positively
proved to have been issued on the evening of the 29th ult. A
witness named Cordy likewise stated that Hayes was one of the
men he saw running away. Goff and Bailey declined at present
to say anything to the charges, and Hayes declared he was at
work at the time.
Mr. Chance now fully committed the prisoners for trial for
housebreaking, and Goff, in addition, for the cutting and wound¬
ing Mr. Prances. He agreed to accept substantial bail for Hayes,
with proper notice to the police.
Mb. Husk’s seances at Mrs. Woodforde’s, 90, Great Russell-
street, London, W.C., are held every Priday evening at eight
o’clock.
“ What is oue Natuke ?”—Dr. William Hitchman, M.R.C. S-,
lectured the other evening on the above subject in Woolton
Mechanics’ Institution, owing to the temporary absence of Mr.
Robert Gladstone, J.P., whose place he kindly filled on the
occasion. The doctor gave a scientific and religious outline of
human nature, contending that the spiritual evolution of man’s
future body as a clothing for his present soul was as truly
demonstrated by science and religion as the protoplasm, or
first visible particle of our physical constitution, and that God
still acts through “ ministering spirits,” alike in natural
phenomena and in the events of daily life. The cherubic
symbols, he said, placed in the tabernacle now may be faithful
hieroglyphics of the good man’s angelic nature, as when sur¬
mounted by a blaze of glory in the Hebrew church of the
wilderness. Atheists, Positivists, and Secularists, whose noise
and smoke affect the purblind, are doctors for the healthy only,
and not for the sorrows of the soul, or the aspirations of the
loving heart, and the spiritually “ sick unto death ” throughout the
world. Willing or unwilling, people must believe in “ the things
of the spirit,” so long as they cannot measure a bushel of
thoughts, a peck of ideas, or a yard of feeling, and roll out
bundles of emotions, demonstrate the chemistry of suffering, the
physics of joy, and bring to mortal view all the elements and
forces of the unseen universe. No spiritual Christlike kingdom
will ever be established or maintained by such pagan influences
as might against right, or the secular sword despotically wielded
by sovereign power and selfish policy. Religion must prove true
to itself by doing good to all men. Mr. James Thornley, of
Water-street, presided, and in moving a cordial vote of thanks to
the learned doctor for his eloquent and beautiful oration, said
that it deserved to be classed amongst the best expositions of
human nature yet published on the side of universal science and
religion. A similar compliment was paid to the chairman, and
the interesting proceedings terminated by a warm acclamation
of approval from the whole audience.—Liverpool Mercury, Dec.
3rd, 1879.
280
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 12, 1879.
“RANDOM READING S.”
BY CAPTAIN R. F. BURTON.
Your notice of Paul Jopper, of Madras {The
Spiritualist, November 7th), dimly reminds me of
having heard something about the man, but memory
goes no farther. Your Indian correspondent will
supply you with many cases more or less similar, the
results of studying the phenomena of Spiritualism in
the East. They will be the more interesting at the
present time when the process, which I have ex¬
pected for years, is beginning to do palpable work.
It was evident to Anglo-Indians, endowed with the
rare attribute of common sense, that had India sent
as many units of Hindu missionaries to England as
England has sent dozens of English missionaries
and missioners to India, Hinduism by this time
would have taken deep root in Mlenchha Island.
The prospectus of the Theosophic Society will open
some eyes to this modicum of truth.
Paul Jopper is another confirmation of my old
thesis, viz: “ Some such force or power (Spiritualism
without the Spirits) the traveller is compelled to
postulate, even in the absence of proof,”—an asser¬
tion so distasteful to the Daily Telegraph (Nov. 14,
1876). Without a trace, even “down in the deepest
depths,” of belief regarding things spiritual, as good-
natured friends suggest, 1 am still convinced that if
we had no such entity as phenomenal Spiritualism,
we travellers should be obliged to invent it. As a
factor of the product called hitman knowledge it
represents Austria in the politics of Europe.
During the last few months 1 have been obliged to
turn over a number of books not generally read, and
you are welcome to my extracts from them. The first
shall be good old Ibn Batutah, of Fez, who travelled
between Morocco and China in A.D. ^24—54. One
passage (Lee’s translation, pp. 161, 162) runs as
follows:—
I was once in the presence of the Emperor of Hindustan, when
1 wo of these JogeeSj wrapped up in a cloak, with their heads
covered (for they take out all their hair with powder), fame in.
The Emperor caressed them and said, pointing to me—This is a
stranger; show him what he has never seen. They said, We will.
One of them then assumed the form of a cube, and arose from
the earth, and in this (cubic) shape he occupied a place in the air
over our heads. I was so much astonished and terrified at this
that I fainted and fell to the earth. The Emperor then ordered
me some medicine which he had with him, and upon tasting this
I recovered and sat up, the cubic figure still remaining in the air
just as it had been. His companion then took a sandal belonging
to one of those who had come out with him, and struck it upon the
ground as if he had been angry. The sandal then ascended
until it became opposite the cube,; it then struck it upon the heel,
and the cube descended gradually to the ground, and at last
rested in the place which it had left. The Emperor then told
me that the man who topk the form of a cube was a disciple to
the Owner of the sandal; and, continued he, had 1 not enter¬
tained fears for the safety of thy intellect, I should have ordered
them to show thee greater things than these. Erom this,
however, I took a palpitation of the heart, until the Emperor
ordered me a medicine which restored me.
Note that Ibn Batutah, a learned and devout Mos¬
lem, must have been well acquainted with the magic
of Marocco; that he had no object in inventing such
an adventure; and that the power belonged to
another and a hostile faith—Paganism. He uses to
that effect the word “ Jogiin your issue of Nov. 7,
I read of “Indian fakirs.” The difference is
ill that the former is a Hindu, the latter a Hindi
j | j (Mahommedan).
The next is Ludovico di Varthema (ot Bartema),
I) | gentleman of Rome, who travelled eastwards between
i | A.D. 1503—7. He gives the following account of
i[| medical clairvoyance (p. 167, Hakluyt’s edition) in
I | the chapter concerning the physicians who visit the
j j sick in Calicut:—
When a Pagan (i‘.<?. Hindu) merchant is sick and in great
Ij danger, the above-mentioned instruments, and the aforfesaid men,
i) | dressed like devils, go to visit the sick man, and they go at two
j|j or three a.m., and tne said men, so dressed, carry fire in their
m mouths, and in each of their hands; and on their feet they wear
j > | two crutches of wood, which are one pace (two feet and a half ?)
i) j high, and in this manner they go shouting and sounding their
j (i instruments, so that truly if the person were not ill, he would
| \ I fall to the ground from terror at seeing these ugly beasts. And
II these are the physicians who visit the sick man. And though
I) I they should fill the stomach full up to the mouth, they pound
|(! three roots of ginger and make a cup of juice, and this they
| (! drink, and in three days they no longer have any illness, so that
|) | they live exactly like beasts.
The last assertion appears to be somewhat of a
|ij non sequitur. Yarthema’s learned editor, Rev. G.
!|j Percy Badger, noticing this “ medical thaumaturgy,”
jll quotes Buchanan concerning the Pakanet or Telinga
I |j Jogis. “ Their virtuous men after death are supposed
l)| to become a kind of gods, and frequently to inspire
|| the living, which makes them speak incoherently,
j) | and enables them to foretell the event of diseases.”
||j We have also references to Forbes’ “Ras MaH”
||| (chapter on Bhoots, or Apparitions, ii., 379—400); and
; !|j to the Bombay Quarterly Magazine for Oct., 1850.
Even the Dark Continent shows a gleam of spirit-
m ualistic light. Old William Bosman, who wrote his
l|| “Description of the Guinea Coast” in 1700, says
j|| (Letter xxi.), treating of “ Great Benin —
!(I They talk much conceruing the apparition of the ghosts of their
;(I ancestors and relations, which yet happens only to them in their
! > | sleep, when they come and warn them to make this or that
in offering; which, as soon as day approaches, they immediately do:
j(| if they are unable, they will, rather than fail in this duty, borrow
hi of others, for they imagine that the neglect hereof would draw on
1) j them some heavy afiliction. If any person iti raillery tells them
j(| that they are only idle imaginations and dreams these will agree
id with him, but add it is a custom of our forefathers, which we are
| (I obliged to follow.
The old Dutchman ends, “To conclude their ridicu-
ifj lous religion I shall add a small account of their
\l\ festivals, of which they have so many and so different,
III that they ought not to yield to any Romanist.” In
! < I these days, many would not find the ghost-stories so
j i | “ ridiculous.”
Camoens, a traveller and a poet, shall be the
m connection between travellers and poets. It is
i (i distinctly spiritualistic when he writes (The Lusiads,
j x. 83):—
Oi que sdo bans, guiando favorecem,
j ji Os maos, em quantopodem, nos empecem,
“ Good Sprites with favour human footsteps lead,
Bad Spirits, when they can, our course impede.”
Turning over the Lives of Petrarch, and other neo-
m Latin poets, I come upon many passages interesting
||| to Spiritualists, for instance :—
|u Having received frequent invitations to Lourdes (Gascony)
pj from the Bishop (the amiable Giacomo Colonna), Petrarch looked
i)| forward with pleasure to the time when he should revisit him.
; (I But he received accounts that the Bishop was taken danger-
; j | ously ill. Whilst his mind was agitated by this news he had the
j /1 following dream, which he has himself related :—“ Methought I
I / • saw the Bishop crossing the rivulet of my garden alone. He
Dec. 12, 1879. THE SPIUI
smiled upon me with his usual kindness, and said, Remember j)j
that when you were in Gascony the tempestuous climate, was !) i
insupportable to you; I also am tired of it. I have quitted |(|
Gascony never to return, and I am going to Rome. At the i \ j
conclusion of these words he had reached the end of the garden, h j
and as I endeavoured to accompany him, he, in the kindest and j) I
gentlest manner, waved his hand; but upon my persevering he in
cried out in a peremptory way, Stay ! you must not at present j (j
attend me. Whilst he spoke these words I fixed my eyes upon
him and saw' the paleness of death in his face. Seized with j > i
horror I uttered a loud cry which awoke me. I took note of j)|
the time. I told the circumstance to all my friends, and at the I / j
expiration of twenty-five days I received accounts of his death, i (]
which happened during the very same night on which he had ]||
appeared to me.”—Page xlvii., The Sonnets, &c., of Petrarch, j) i
London: Bells’, 1875. . i . - ||j
The biographer airily and easily shows that “on a j j
little reflection this incident will not appear to be |/|
supernatural as if any one ever supposed it was ! Is j
But Thomas Campbell wrote his two octavos in the m
early part of the present century : in A.D. 1879 many jyj
would explain the apparition by something more sub- j)j
stantial than “ fanciful reveries ” and “ sleeper’s imagi- || |
nation.” t ; ;; j/j
The last on my present list shall be the noble j \ |
Tasso. It is well known that he was' confined as a j/j
lunatic in the Hospital of St. Anne by Duke Alfonso j s j
of Este, whom Byron has duly punished. But the j)j
cause of an imprisonment which lasted from 1580 to ||
1587 is still undetermined. That Tasso was not mad j) j
is clear from his choice of subjects in his den of jij
human horrors. The best proof of his sanity are the j(j
moral dialogues and the sad canzonets by which he j)i
restrained the flow of his imagination.
After a confinement of seven years two months j)|
and some days, the Pride of Italy was set free. He j< j
passed the autumn of 1588 at the seat of his friend j>j
and future biographer, Battista Manso, Marquis of in
Villa. ;; h;,; • | j
His soul bad become deeply tinged with a belief in super- j)j
natural appearances, and he came habitually to affirm that a i)j
familiar spirit appeared to him of the nature of that which is j (j
declared to have attended Socrates. In the supposed presence j \ i
of this being he often sunk into a profound abstraction, and even j) i
in the company of his friend Manso, once maintained an in
animated conversation with this imaginary inhabitant of an in
irtimaterial world-— i •: • v n .. ■' . v.j m
“ Of Providence, .fore-knowledge, will, and fate,”
with an earnestness and power which left no doubt of his own i / j
belief in the reality of his impressions (p. xxiv., The Life of Tasso, i / i
prefixed to Pairfax’s Recovery of Jerusalem. London: j(j
Kirby, 1817)..
The biographer (Charles Knight) adds: “This may j>j
have been madness, but it was the madness of an in
ardent and philosophical spirit, which felt that there jjj
was other evidende of the beauty and wisdom of the Kj
Supreme Intelligence beyond that of the senses ” (as m
if seeing were not a sense !), “and which went to the jn
extremes which such a belief may produce in a fervid j ^ j
and undisciplined (?) imagination.” ju
This suggests a question which I have long wished j(j
to address to “idealists,” namely, what the idealistic j(j
name for themselves may be ? I will not insult their j/j
learning by a disquisition upon the words ide<% and ju
idealist, which are of the earth, earthy, of the j)|
materialistic, purely material. An idealist who be- jjj
lieves in the ideas which he sees, is much in the same j/j
condition as a “spirit materialised,” i.e. a white-black, h j
or a nothing-something. i)i
TJALIBT. 281
I here conclude—for the present if you are willing
—the extracts intended for those
Who will not make their judgments blind,
Who face the spectres of the mind,
And lay them.
Richard F. Burton.
Trieste, Dec. 4, 1879,
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA.
(To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.")
Sir,—At this time of day to accumulate evidences
of the simpler physical phenomena occurring at
seances may, to Spiritualists, seem rather superfluous.
But as you have thought fit to publish the rough
“ proof” with which -1 furnished Mr. Munton for the
purpose of my examination before the Psychological
Society, in which dates and particulars omitted from
my “proof” were supplied, it maybe as well to com¬
plete the published evidence, by the account referred
to, from my notes made on the 7th Sept., 1875, of
my seance that day with Mrs. Youngs, the “piano
medium,” of New York.
“Went with 0. in the evening to the medium,
Mrs. Youngs. The manifestation Was by bright gas¬
light. Mrs. Y. stood at the piano, played a tune
and sang a song. Then she sat down, played, and
the piano was raised at the end at which she sat, and
beat time on the floor to what she was playing.
Afterwards she stood at the side, with her left hand
on the piano, her right under mine, which was placed,
palm upwards, beneath the side of the instrument.
Again it was raised repeatedly. It was so heavy
that a strong exertion of my force only sufficed to
raise it about an inch. Its dimensions were as fol¬
lows :—Length, 6 feet 11 inches; width, 3 feet
4 inches ; depth of case, 1 foot 3inches-—7f octaves.
Colonel Olcott measured it in my presence. I
noticed when the manifestation took place under the
latter conditions described, the mUscles of Mrs.
Y.’s right hand were violently contracted against
mine, though not so as to force my hand upwards in
spite of my resistance. But it was the sort of move¬
ment one notices in an idle hand, when the other, or
some other limb, is strongly exerted, and her other
hand was at the edge of the piano, only partly upon
it.* That she did it with her own unassisted force
is, however, simply impossible, though it occurred to
me that the thing might be done by some hidden
leverage worked by the foot. When she was sitting
at the piano I asked that she would allow her dress
to be tied tightly round her, so as to leave a clear
visible space between her whole person and the piano.
This she refused for what I thought a frivolous
reason—something about the exhausting character of
tests, I think. However, we had examined the piano,
and moved it, to be sure that there \vas no machinery
or artificial attachment to the floor. So what can I
say ? ” i . . V
I have often seen it stated that any investigator,
by taking a little trouble, may satisfy himself of the
genuine nature of the physical phenomena. From my
own experience I should say that this is a great mistake,
and that such off-hand assertions are likely to gain
* It should be remembered that -when the above was written I was com¬
paratively young in my investigations. I have now a very different theory,
one quite consistent with the genuine character of the manifestation, to
account for this contraction of the muscles.
282 THE SPIRITUALIST. Dec. 12. 1879.
us small credit for judgment with the really cautious |
and exact investigator. At dark stances the elimina- j)
tion of all possible elements of doubt is an exceed- j)
ingly difficult and tedious process of observation K
and comparison as between one occasion and another, j)
the persons respectively present, the conditions, If
occurrences, &c. My early note books are full to the j)
most minute details of these particulars, and of the jf
inferences which seemed necessary; for I never j|
enjoyed the facilities of the home or private circle |>
without professionals. Indeed, but for Slade and his j (
light seances, I doubt if the truth would ever have j;
been brought home to me with the force of absolute I (
and indisputable certainty; and on this account I j)
can never think of this rarely-gifted medium without j (
feelings of gratitude and regard. Nevertheless, I !)
had arrived logically at the same conclusion before j<
I met him. At the conclusion of my notes on a par- |)
ticular stance in London in the summer of 1875,1 j <
find the following observations, which may perhaps j;
be worth transcribing:—“Nor can I isolate this j<
phenomenon ” (that observed at the stance of which j)
the note in question treats) “ altogether apart from j \
other marvels of which I have a great mass of i)
cumulative, if in scarcely one instance quite con- js
elusive evidence. It did make an impression on me, j)
and I have been trying to determine how great or js
ho_w small that impression ought logically to be. I j(
dread the facility of assent which seems to come K
naturally from the very fact of habitual investigation, j)
I go to seance after seance, and come away unsatisfied j s
with the evidence at each, yet the aggregate tells j)
upon me. No ; there is nothing illogical in this. K
When the hypothesis of fraud requires a different, i)
often a far-fetched, but above all a different explana- j s
tion nearly every time, then the hypothesis gets k
gradually more and more difficult, till its impro- H
bability, according to our knowledge and experience i<
of human resources, becomes greater, far greater, j)
than the merely d priori presumption of our ignor- H
ance against the existence of extra-mundane causes.” j)
C. C. Massey.
December 6tb, K
A REMARKABLE SEANCE IN LONDON.
BY DR, R. FRIESE OF BRESLAU. K
When about six weeks ago I came to London for the j (
purpose of ascertaining for myself whether there was j)
not much exaggeration in the many reports I had read j j
about materialisation seances, I, of course, had but a j >
very faint idea of the real nature of that miraculous j<
phenomenon, and of the wonderful gifts possessed by j)
your great mediums. I was afraid that the presence j \
even of a stray foreigner like myself might be suffi- j)
cient to mar the effects and spoil the conditions. K
How much, then, was I surprised when, for the first 1/
time, I saw John King at Mr. Wilhams’s, heard his K
sonorous voice, shook hands with “Irresistible,” |;
received a good box on my ears from Peter’s roll of K
cardboard, and, in the end, was myself lifted up in j)
the air in my chair by a couple of spirit friends—a i ^
trip which nearly resulted in my being rolled under )
the table ! Such was the beginning; and, I am happy s
to say, I passed through a regular course of expe- j \
riences in phenomenal Spiritualism, until even old '< (
investigators told me that I might consider myself
exceptionally fortunate ; and so I do. Every one of
the stances I was admitted to presented a different
character; all were highly interesting and instruc¬
tive ; and the only thing that amazed me was the
indifference of an enlightened population, in whose
midst were and are living such wonderful mediums,
fit to convince the most obstinate sceptic. Sceptics,
at least, there must be; indifference is worse than
opposition.
Of a very peculiar character was a seance at Mrs.
Woodforde’s, held on Saturday, 4th December, the
last I had the pleasure of attending. The circle was
very small, two ladies and four gentlemen, including
the medium, Mr. James C. Husk. The lights were
hardly extinguished when Captain James exclaimed,
“ There is something on my arm ! ” A light was
struck, and a coil of pianoforte wire, of about four
inches in diameter^ and consisting of at least fifty
windings, was seen hanging like a bracelet on the
Captain’s arm. This coil had most likely been taken
from the medium’s lodgings, and carried all the way
from the neighbourhood of Euston-square to that of
the British Museum. The light was again blown
out, when all of a sudden John’s powerful voice blew
through one of the tubes on the table such a hearty
“ Good evening, Doctor ! ” into my face that myself
and neighbours were nearly swept down to the
carpet. John explained that he had put the wire
coil on the medium’s arm by dematerialising the
wrist of the medium’s right hand. Then “ Irresistible”
and “ Ebenezer,” whose squeaking voices caused
general hilarity, entered upon the scene. The former
good-humouredly complained of our mistaking his
voice for that of Ebenezer, and said that in the end
nothing would be left to him but to alter his organ of
speech; but he was by us requested to desist, as we all
liked him, and would not recognise him if he twisted
his ways and voice into any other shape. That
pleased him.
John was rather silent; I think he wished to
economise his and our power for some other mani¬
festations ; even the few questions I put he answered
only by tapping my arm with his fingers. He thus
explained that when he merely materialised head and
bust, and appeared to us standing like a plaster cast
on the table, he actually stood with his feet on the
floor, and balanced the weight of some fifteen pounds
of head and bust by mere will-power : “ Call it the
soul,” he said.
“ Irresistible,” in the meantime, was creeping about
on the floor, muttering wisdom in his peculiar style,
and sank gradually under the carpet and under the
floor, according to all symptoms ; thus he approached
the domain of some neighbouring spirit, who took
advantage of his rival’s imprisonment and paid us a
visit; whereupon, when Irresistible returned, a
violent quarrel between the two arose, the character
of which was highly tragi-comical. Irresistible suc¬
ceeded in kicking the interloper out of the room.
John had left us to be active at two other stances,
but his men were not lazy. The medium was under
their treatment, and lay in a deep trance: some¬
thing was going on. Irresistible—grumbling at the
f. Indian,” whom he had got rid of, as it seemed,
not without some difficulty—crawled up to my chair,
283
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 12, 1879.
imitating the barking of a dog. When I discovered
these canine talents in him, I asked him to fetch
Mrs. Woodforde’s little dog from the adjoining room,
where he was locked in, but he said that there was
not sufficient power, and that “ the beast ” was too
fat. It was of no use that I responded that the
fellow was accustomed to this passage through the
partition-wall, as he had been fetched through it a
fortnight ago : he was too fat that night.
All at once something heavy dropped on the table.
What was it? A stone ? No; some drapery. But
what ? Irresistible, with the voice of an auctioneer,
cried “ The waistcoat of the 'medium.”
Indeed, it was the waistcoat of the medium, who
was moaning in a deep trance.
This astounding manifestation I had heard of, but
never witnessed myself. The spirits had taken about
twenty to twenty-five minutes in preparing the aura
of the medium, and when John returned he explained
that it was done by dematerialisation.
Mrs. Wopdforde asked Irresistible to take the
medium to his easy chair, as he seemed rather
exhausted ; and in the twinkling of an eye we heard
Mr. Husk snoring and panting in his corner. When
I asked Mrs. Woodforde how they managed that, and
she had replied, “ Oh, they make him walk,” Irre¬
sistible cried, “ No, we floated him; you did not hear
him move, Captain, did you?” “No, decidedly I
did not.” y We floated him,” he repeated, rather
proud of this feat.
Well, there Mr. Husk reposed; and to protect him
from the glare of the light, which, as was to be ex¬
pected, was soon going to be struck, they carried a
screen, of something like eight feet by four, from the
opposite side of the room and covered him with it.
This they floated over our heads, without making as
much noise as the flight of a big fly would have done.
During the rest of the seance a number of other
spirits spoke or amused ns by human and inhuman
sounds. Thus the “ Boatswain,” the favour of whose
presence was requested by the ladies, all at once
announced himself by a most shrill whistle, which,
I daresay, he had often made use of on the waters.
But still more than by this locomotive-voice, he
surprised us by imitating the approach and the
howling of a storm: it was really terrific. How
extraordinary the compass and power of his lungs
must have been !
Sweet Marie (Mrs. Comer’s control), the gay and
cheerfid girl in petticoats, came, also Lily, and others,
of whom one particularly interested me, an ancient
Greek, talking his language (of which the medium
declared not to know one word), though with some¬
what strange pronunciation, in a beautifully melodious
voice. I asked him to give me the Lord’s Prayer in
his mother tongue, with which he at once complied,
going about half through it. I enjoyed these mild
and sweet tones, the soft pronunciation and the
beauty of his pure dialect. Unfortunately his power
soon vanished away. He once had been a soldier,
and fell from the deadly stroke of a vigorous enemy.
Will the reader give credit to his confession that he
could not get over an inveterate feeling of hatred
towards this person until lately, when he was in¬
formed of the charitable task some spirits have taken
upon themselves of introducing mankind into the
)j doctrines of Spiritualism? He enlisted in their
) | ranks, and only since he has directed his mind to such
(| a noble work, has; he succeeded^ in overcoming the
)\ feeling just mentioned. In all haste I inquired
11 whether my pronunciation of S/09, avros, &c., was
) | correct; he agreed to the German Seo? instead of the
) | English, but he corrected our avros into apros, &c.
When he had disappeared John came up to me,
) | and knowing that it was about the last time I should
H see him before I left this hospitable country, he
(i addressed me in a most solemn manner, putting his
)j hands on my head and “blessing me, encouragi ng me
yf in my work. His words made a deep impression on
)j me, but, beautiful as they were, I must refrain from
si publishing them, as they would lose their beauty and
their power. When he had finished he poured a
s | delicious fragrance on my hair; I felt it flow down;
n but it was no liquid, nor did it cause a feeling of cold
ij by evaporation. I cannot compare it to any known
u scent. From me John’ walked all round the circle,
>| and each of us received his share of this celestial
(j produce.
John heard me mention that I had been successful
h the other day at Mr. Hudson’s, the photographer
j| (19, Westville, Starch-green, Shepherd’s-bush), in
(| getting, under strict test conditions, the portrait of
sj Pauline (the spirit who so devotedly assisted me in
)| writing the Voices from the Spirit Land), her form
) I in rich drapery, in broad daylight, where my eye saw
(i nothing but air. Well, John came up to me, and to
j I my utter surprise told me he knew all about it; he
<| had been helping her, from his desire to meet my
>1 wishes and to promote the interests of the poor
\ i artist.
These spirits know all about us, receive us, if we
(j deserve it, with attention and kindness, or otherwise
j | shun us. They do their best to show or give us what
<| we ask for or mentally desire, if we deserve to be
) I instructed by them, and I can boast I have not asked
< j for much in vain.
Our medium, Mr. James C. Husk, cannot be too
<| highly spoken of. His quiet, unassuming manner
)j will not allow the shadow of a doubt to rise in the
u mind of the most inveterate sceptic, and even were
11 not his thorough honesty plainly written on his fore-
\ i head, his stiffness and entire want of dexterity would
) | protect you against any kind of legerdemain and
| trickery. The fact is that the gentleman’s eyesight
/i is very bad; so very bad, that he really could not
II “perform,” even if he wanted. On this account he
)! deserves to be particularly recommended to the
\ I nobility and gentry of high-sceptics, who are beginning
/ i to learn and “ know all about it.”
I, from my heart, pity those who look- upon the
| marvellous manifestations such as I have seen in
j London and Newcastle with suspicious eyes, for they
n cannot enjoy the blessings of the doctrine which God
II sends unto us as a palpable proof of His infinite
\ i mercy and love. They will be wise where ignorance
)! is bliss; they will treat unjustly those servants whom
<! God sends as His instruments to open our eyes. But,
after all, their time will come; perhaps the glare of
(\ the dawning morning is too bright for their eyes yet,
j | though its brightness is all beauty.
In taking leave of numerous friends I have made
(i in London as well as at Newcastle, I feel bound to
284
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 12, 1879.
thaiik them fot too many proofs of kitidiless atid love
to be expressed in a few words. I must try to come
back next year to show them, and our spirit friends
too, how happy I feel at being allowed to spend my
time with them, and to advancO in knowledge under
their kind tutorship.
London, December.
A VISION OF THE NIGHT.
A NARRATIVE OF REAL EXPERIENCES.
“In a dream, in a vision of the night, when sleep falleth upon
men, in slumberings upon their bed, He openeth the ears of men
and giveth them instruction.”—Job xxxiii. 15.
“ But while he thought on these things, the angel of the Lord
appeared unto him in a dream.”—Matt. i. 20.
“Daniel spake and said: I saw in my vision by night.”—
Dan. ii. 19.
“Then was the secret revealed unto Daniel in a night vision.”
—Dan. ii. 19.
In the silent watches of the night my heart grew
weary and oppressed—nchingj though I knew not
■why. No bitter memories came to trouble and
perplex; no vain regrets o’er a waste and sinful past;
nor dread forebodings of a grim, impending fate :
and yet my heart was faint and sick and sore. Fain
would I have reasoned, and thereby gained relief;
but the effort was unavailing, and though strenuous
and persistent, utterly failed in effect. Clouds
gathered about me—huge black clouds, close and
confining like some shadowy pall; and then from out
my soul there Came a wailing sound, a cry of blank
despair and misery, that the angels heard, and, pity¬
ing, caught and bore along in their flight through
sphere upon sphere unto the foot of the Heavenly
Throne; There again ’twas repeated even as the
wail of some weak infant, lonely and distressed ; and
this is what it said,
“ Hast Tbdu forsaken me, 0 God P”
Then a breeze, light and gentle, fanned my throb¬
bing brow : fingers, soft and loving, caressed rily
tear-stained cheek. My bosom grew light; the load
waS gone at the magical touch of that hand; bright
beaming eyes, like stats of the summer night, gazed
mildly, Sympathetically, their glances thrilling with
a Strange and subtle spell, Until sleep fell upon me,
arid for a time my tired senses wete wrapt in oblivion
Of fleshly ills and woe.
I slept, I dreamed; and iii that dream I beheld
myself, worn and spent, sitting in the twilight-
gloatnihg, silent and at rest. It had been a hard,
hard day for me; now it was over, and I could rest.
With eyelids closed, my wearied brain rejoiced in that
sweet repose; and if not happy I was content—Con¬
tent in forgetfulness.
But then the consciousness of a presence recalled
me from this state. I opened my eyes—the fire had
burnt low in the grate, and, impelled as it were by
instinct, I gazed searchingly into the darkness beyond.
I gazed> and still I gazed, till in answer there came a
silvery light, like that of fair Dian issuing from a
tempest-racked sky; and as I continued to gaze it
increased and developed, and finally shaped itself
into a slim and graceful forhi.
Then fear took possession of me, and I shrank
awdy in awe—in awe of a being so beauteous, so
kind.
1“ Fear not* my sister,” she said: her voice was
| sweet, ineffably sweet and low.
“ Fear not—I am thy guardian: appointed by
| heaven, I watch over and care for thee. Poor child,
| thy life is no easy one; beset with difficulties, the
| way is rugged and steep. Thou needst a helping
?! hand. Ofttimes when bruised and faint, thy spirit
If would fairi be freed. I nurse and feed its famished
If soul with the manna for which it yearns—such
I nourishment as the world must fail to supply,
n “Be brave—press on. What though the clouds
) be dark, they pass away: even so shall earthly
I crosses, which are as signposts on the rOad to God.”
So reassuring was the tone that fear was chased
| away, and tears of heartfelt gladness dimmed my
S | wondering eyes.
“ Art thou, then, a being from the other world ? ”
ff I asked ; and those same sweet tones responded :
“ I am, dear child of earth;”
Then my soul was filled with gratitude—gratitude
(j to Him for His infinite mercy and love. For years
11 my fragile bark of faith had been stranded on the
(| shoals of doubt; now a haven was at hand, a harbour
; | of refuge to which I could direct my course, and
|| therein strive to repair the damage which inevitably
|| had accrued. The beacon that I had long since
(i ceased to pray for was now before me in that emissary
11 from another and a better world.
Then a sense of unworthiness bowed my head.
11 How miserably weak I felt—incompetent—unde-
(! serving! And now rhy tears were turned to tears of
: | shame ; my sufferings were agonising and bitter.
But again that gentle voice spoke comfort in
; | mine ear:
“Weep not,” she said, “dear sister; thou art but
;I human; humanity is fallible—frail. I would have
; | thee know thyself, then canst thou learn to be true.
; | And so, ah thou aft willing, I will accompany thee
( on a journey—a journey which will be symbolic of
;j tby pilgrimage here upon earth. Rest assured no
harm shall come nigh thee; thou wilt be ably pro-
; | tected, and restored to pursue thy way strengthened
: | and refreshed. Say, art thou ready ? Wilt thou
11 come ? ”
And, hungering for light, for warmth, my arms
i were stretched forth, while the voice of my soul cried
(j out:
“ I am ready, ready to follow whither thou wouldst
<! lead.” She smiled an angel’s radiant smile, and,
'| advancing, with a wave of her white hand lulled my
|j senses in a deep, abnormal trance.
Time passed. Eventually, sensibility and con-
(j sciousness were restored. I found myself free, and
' I able to piit into action whatsoever my higher nature
(i did most earnestly desire. My spirit was unfettered;
>1 I could soar away; ifiy perceptions, no longer dim
( and blurred, wefe capable of grasping at once and
)j Mith equal clearness a multitude of objects more or
u. less complicate ; I was enabled to penetrate more
|| deeply; to retain, make selections, and detect the
(| most delicate resemblances with intuitive ease
4 Moreover, the whole of my faculties might be put
|i into operation without the slightest fatigue, for they
| encountered none of those disturbing elements which
11 are apt to impede and counteract our highest efforts
i when encumbered with the flesh.
235
DEC. 12. 1870. THE SPIRITUALIST
This was a new experience to me, new and
intensely agreeable. I revelled in it, even as the
butterfly upon release from the chrysalis state. Little
did it then occur to me that I had left the earth, and
that the silver cord about me was the only connecting
link with my perishing form of clay.
Whilst thus rejoicing in this, my new birth, the
white-robed angel again revealed herself. Fair and
beauteous before, she now appeared surpassingly so:
glorified, and wearing the ethereal loveliness of her
celestial sphere.
By language of the heart, wordless yet replete with
meaning, we joined in spirit-communion, she explain¬
ing what had previously been incomprehensible to my
more sensuous understanding.
By an effort of will she then caused to be opened
to my clairvoyant vision a vista peopled with wraiths
of the past; and at her behest the curtain was drawn
aside, the curtain which hangs ’twixt the present and
the secrets of the unexplored.
Together we commenced our journey—the child of
heaven and the child of earth —and in the following
consecutive stages were set forth and symbolised the
struggles, cbUquests, and failures of the progress of
an incarnated soul.
It was spring time; the atmosphere was balmy
and soft, the sky an opal-blue. The budding boughs
waved to and fro with a listless, monotonous swing:
the streamlet glided on unruffled, undisturbed. Now
and then the sun’s faint rays beamed on the velvet
sward ; but they were feeble, feeble as myself, a help¬
less babe.
A species of inertia was predominant; everything
was affected thereby ; and though nature was both
lovely and fair, her charms were as yet unawakened,
unknown. The perfection of simplicity was there; her
twin sister, purity, by her side ; only one thing was
lacking—knowledge—which, had it been there, would
have served to disturb the placid harmony of the
rest. And thus I beheld myself—an infant, borne
along by spectral hands, tenderly guarded, watched,
and caressed—until the soul quickened. I found
myself a responsible being. Then commenced the
strife, the hard-fought battle of life.
My heart grew heavy and sad ; I sighed and would
fain haVe beheld no more. Would that I could have
remained a guileless, untried child.
My companion perceiving, looked pityingly ; then
with a firm, unflinching hand, she slung a breast¬
plate round my neck: on that plate was inscribed
three words—talismanic words—which I repeated,
and then, revivified, was eager to press on.
The scehe changed. It was bright summer
weather; the atmosphere, though warm, was clear
and invigorating—the landscape refreshing in its
verdant vegetation. The meadows looked cool and
inviting; the cornfields, with their gay, intrusive
poppies, were decked in their regal robes, whilst in the
distance the dark green foliage formed an agreeable
contrast to the soft blue canopy o’erhead.
And I beheld myself, a cnild, amidst a group of
others like myseif, joining in the games and frolics of
my yourig companions.
We were all happy—happy and hearty with the
buoyancy of youth. Life for us was one long, joyous
dream. Free as the air, we knew not the meaning of
(j cafe; to gambol and enjoy was the be-all and end-
)! all of existence to us ; and we revelled in the sun-
u shine with a kitten’s delight. I liked to linger over
U this scene ; everything was so attractive, so fresh, so
(| fair. All was in unison, tbo, as before, though now
)j the fundamental principle was a species of reckless
| carelessness, of sensuous enjoyment of the present,
)i and capabilities limited to self-gratification. It was
j the glory of a day, the glory of an hour. I watched
>! myself, a pretty, light-hearted girl, and once more
(j experienced those self-same feelings, recalled by the
)! spectral legion before me.
For the nonce I entered into the sports with my
)| former youthful ardour, and could sympathise with,
\j aye, and desire to retain those days when responsi-
) | bility and anxiety were as yet unknown.
As these thoughts came into my mind, my angel-
) guide, with finger upraised, directed my attention to
\| the beautiful sky above.
The shades of evening now mellowed the effect of
u the setting sun; the landscape was roofed with opal,
)| and glinted a thousand gay-coloured tints. The
s! children sang their evensong: a merry group they
)i made, and as their voices rang cheerily, a cloud arose
\l upon the horizon, a cloud no bigger than a man’s
n hand, yet dark and ominous.
And as it rose it cast a shade upon the face of one
(j of those children.
The light died out, and with it the gladness of
(j heart; she paused in her singing, tears rushed into
>! her eyes, she uttered a stifled cry, then fled dis-
1 j tressed, terrified, she knew not why—that child
|>j was myself.
I shuddered, and would fain have shut out further
S ! sight; but my companion breathed upon the armour
jf.j at my breast, and the cabalistic letters shone out with
|)! even more distinctness than before.
I caught the words they formed, and with them
!)| courage to pursue.
Then I beheld in the solitary retreat whither she
j)i had fled an angel appear unto that child; and in
Ki that angel I did recognise the seraphic beauty of the
|) | guardian by my side. Even as this idea occurred to
icj me she was cognisant of it; and, smiling, pressed my
|) hand and beckoned me on. “ Onward and upward,”
K| she said.
We journeyed on, borne, as it were, by the breath of
m heaven: with no conscious effort on our part we were
j)j transported whithersoever the desire of my spirit-
| j guide might dictate. Region upon region, sphere
pi upon sphere, passed in succession so rapid that
| \ | merely a casual glimpse was permitted; nevertheless
j)S this sufficed to explain to my disencumbered under-
K standing that the incidents therein portrayed were
pj an exact representation of those in which I myself
m had been an actor in iny earlier life. The pictures
!>! were fitful—varying—depicting scenes now bright,
Ki nowduli. At times the sun-rays illumined my path
Ifl with a golden light, its brilliancy glorifying my
ui girlish face, and for the nonce I was wrapt in Elysian
il dream. And then I awakened, to find myself a child
<| of earth, with a purpose visionary, yet high; inten-
!>| tions and resolves equally as lofty and, alas ! equally
III as frail.
Friends, acquaintances, relations—companions of
KI my youth—all were there, and my happiest moments
286
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 12, 1879.
were those in which I was surrounded by kindly and ! (
sympathetic souls. j (
And yet now I could perceive that this was not i >
my real nature, this external: there was another, an i (
inner, that the world knew not of. I saw myself j>
occasionally, and, as years rolled on, more frequently | (
withdrew from my associates to hearken to a voice i >
which in me spoke. K
For hours I remembered that thus I had loved to n
sit and hold communion with my other self; and to i (
me this was more sweet than aught I had ever n
experienced before. Already my highest impulses k
had been checked, my best resolutions daunted, my j>
less selfish efforts frustrated : my spirit, thus chilled,
had turned to solitude to seek relief. The scales
thus ruthlessly snatched from my eyes, I had dis¬
covered deceit and enmity in more than one who had
professed disinterested friendship for me; and some¬
what hardened, perhaps, my heart was far from
breaking, only it grew doubting and sore. It is an
awful thing when the incontrovertible fact of mean¬
ness and inordinate selfishness is brought unmasked
for the first time before the youthful and unsus¬
pecting mind.
In my case this cruel awakening had been soon ;
the seeds of unfaith were planted early, earlier than
in most, that was all.
With this distrust a severance had sprung up
’twixt myself and those who had been so dear to
me; a gulf that widened and could not be bridged.
I had drifted on a sea of scepticism, and was tossed
hither and thither in my struggles to swim against !
the tide. Baffled, beaten, distressed, I waged defiance j j
with the misery stimulating my breast; until, their | (
patience tried, they left me to my fate, they who had |)
been really deserving and true.
Again I saw myself—alone, always alone, and most j >
alone when mingling in the society of the happy and | ^
the gay, for mine was a solitude of the heart. Thus j)
it was that I had acquired the habit of living, as it
were, a double existence : the one external, superficial,
false ; the other—ah, what shall I say of it ? Inex¬
plicable even unto myself, it is a germ that once
vitalised must go on strengthening, progressing, until
it attain perfection in a future state.
And now my companion again upraised her finger,
and I perceived that little cloud on the distant
horizon had grown to vast dimensions; then a
chorus of angel voices was borne upon the breeze,
chanting—
“ The spirit has its risings and settings of sun and
moon, its clouds and stars, its seasons, its solstices, its
tides, its winds, its storms, its earthquakes-—infinite
vitality in endless fluctuation.”
And as their voices waxed faint in the distance the
wind arose, gaining force as it spread along. The sun
o’ershadowed, grey darkness reigned : the landscape,
now reft of its pleasing vesture, appeared in gaunt
array: the atmosphere grew chill and biting, and
the hurricane impending was impatient to blight each
blossom and bud which gemmed fair nature’s bower.
Rumblings of thunder thrilled the air; lightning
flashes rent the leaden sky; whilst a tide of unrest
flowed in, its waves beating the shore and lashing
whatsoever opposed with an awful, fiendish fury.
The tempest drew nigh, and the noise of the wind
and tide shrieked ominously in my ear. Devastation
was abroad as far as my eye could reach—a devasta¬
tion typical of my state—cold and barren and dark.
I stood unmoved, immovable, and watched the
surf as it approached. I was alone, unhappy, and
yet I dared to challenge, all unprotected as I was :
my breastplate, alas, had gone.
So I turned and faced the storm, the terrible strife,
with defiance on my brow and misery at my heart.
But presently a cloud burst upon me, the cloud
which had arisen no bigger than a man’s hand, the
cloud which now encompassed the firmament of
heaven : then intense fear took possession of me, and
my soul cried out for mercy, forgiveness, love. That
cry was heard, and in answer my angel guardian
appeared and caught me fainting in her arms.
“ Dear child of earth,” she murmured, “ thou hast
jj proved thyself more frail than erring. Consider well
> j these pictures of the past—ponder, reflect, that thou
Ji mayst gain experience for the ages yet to come. I
) | would not have thee shun the bygone days : replete
| with trials and temptations, sorrows and wounds, they
1 teach a hard-earned lesson, a lesson that all must
(! learn, and they help to strengthen and subdue.
1 Aweary, disheartened, and pressed, thou thoughtst
(| to stand alone ; but the burden of trouble fell great,
>| thou couldst not bear it, child. Then, owning thy
(\ weakness, thy soul cried out in fear; that cry was the
1 link that binds us. The chain thus reunited I could
(| approach to guard thee; thine amulet was restored;
/j and I rejoice, my sister, for I perceive that from this
moment thou will doubt no more, neither shall I be
withheld from thy side.”
Again, I felt abashed ; and, lifting my hand, felt
eagerly for the armour I had worn. It was there;
its inscription shining with still more effulgence than
heretofore ; my amulet was safe.
“ Onward and upward,” I murmured, repeating
those talismanic words. An angel-choir took up the
theme and responded in one harmonious and grand
“Amen.”
Tranquillity was restored; harmony prevailed; a
(j delicious serenity stole into my breast. But I had
|| tasted of the fruit of knowledge; its flavour was
(1 luscious, my soul thirsted for more. A life of ease,
j | undevelopment, would not suffice for me. I must be
/1 up and doing; must turn afresh to the battle,
)! invigorated by the experiences of the past.
Then again my guardian spake unto me :
“And wouldst thou raise the veil, my sister; the
veil that enshrouds the features of the unexplored ?
Then keep close by my side, and faint not, though
(j hard and steep the road; nor boast thyself of the sun-
V! shine, its rays are fitful and may scorch at times,
(j Breathe on thine armour, brace thy nerves ; art thou
) | prepared ? ”
(j “lam.”
The veil was raised : we journeyed on. For miles
(j the way was rugged and uphill, hard and stony, beset
M with briars and thorns. Clouds of dust swooped
(j down upon us, blinding and impenetrable; then fogs
> | choked and obscured the path, and chasms yawned
(j at our feet. The briars must needs be pushed aside,
)j the streams forded, the chasms bridged. In the long
<i dark night of earth I beheld myself a pilgrim,
i; striving to travel the steep and narrow way, climbing
Dec. 12, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
287
the mountains with their deep ravines, their treache¬
rous morasses and fatal abysses, with no other light
than that divine spark emitted from the Fountain of
all Light and Life Temporal and Eternal, Material
and Spiritual: that divine spark whose source is God,
and which of itself is sufficient to lead one out of
darkness, error, and sin.
Then the air upon that heaven-kissing hill came
sweet and soothing, and, looking back, my spirit was
amazed and swelled with triumph at the difficulties
overcome. My companion still and ever by my side
had proven herself in times of danger or perplexity
masculine in her strength to protect; in times of woe
or gladness, feminine in her power to soften or partake
—a dual nature, combining the loftiest attributes
pertaining to either sex.
And now did kindly nature reawaken in all her
vernal loveliness; the foliage more green, the flowers
more rare, after the late period of dismal dearth.
The sun shone brightly; alas! too brightly; for, be
it remembered, this was symbolic of earth—its rays
lending warmth to my soul, impetus to my pulse,
and stimulating the nerve-centres. I felt competent
to achieve aught, and in my impetuosity was about
to take a step—a step which might have plunged
me in a whirlpool of discord and strife—when the
outstretched hand of my guide restrained me with a
gentle rebuke. Then I beheld the wreck those
golden sunbeams had wrought: the vegetatibn was
parched, the boughs hung withered and dry, the
rarest blossoms lay seared and dead. And that still,
small voice within me prayed earnestly for rain:
sunshine and smiles alone serve not to nourish the
soul.
In answer a cloud was evolved—a shade that
dimmed those scorching rays, not black and stupen¬
dous, but dull, and sombre, and grey—a care-cloud,
made up of anxiety and woe. Self must be neg¬
lected, forgotten, ignored; another must claim my
whole attention, one frail as myself, and, alas ! even
less able to resist. I watched that erring soul till
my heart was full and sore. Tears of' human sym¬
pathy coursed my cheeks. Never had I felt so weak
as now. Help was needed ; it was for me to give
that help. And yet so much wras at stake! Worldly
aggrandisement, honour, and fame weighed down the
balance in the scales of selfish discretion. For an
instant only I wavered; then in contemptuous anger
quenched these promptings of my lower nature, and
allowed my exalted self to rise superior to the infir¬
mities of the flesh.
I was willing, eager, and yet how miserably incom¬
petent to act! I did my best—poor enough it was—
and failed. Again I tried, and again with like result.
Then my spirit cried out for strength and power to
save an erring human soul; a prayer wrung from my
heart for another, not for myself.
A company of ministering angels hearkened to that
prayer, and hastened to bear it up unto the Celestial
Throne. One more effort; and this time it was
fraught with success. Pale, quivering lips pro¬
nounced my name with grateful thanks and blessings.
To me this would be worth more than aught that
success, or wealth, or fame could bring. This would
be the brightest star in the firmament of my earthly
existence—the gem of all gems that adorn my eternal
crown—the beacon that illumines the way to a home
of peace and sunshine.
I caught the glance of my companion; her coun¬
tenance beamed with seraphic joy. Then I knew it
was she who had urged me to the fulfilment of a noble
action. I was but the instrument; it was not for
me to boast.
She understood my thoughts, and, rejoicing,
whispered :
“Well done, dear child of earth. It has been
said, £ To him that overcometh will I give to eat of
the hidden manna, and will give him a white
stone, and in the stone a new name written which
no man knoweth saving he that received it.’ ”
(Rev. ii. 17.)
“ And I awoke, and behold it was a dream.”
A NEW PUBLIC LIBRARY IN SPIRITUALISM.
Next Monday, a new public lending library, at
moderate rates of subscription, will be opened at
The Spiritualist Office, 33, Museum-street, London;
catalogues may be had on and after that day on
application. The library will contain at the outset a
goodly number of carefully-selected standard books
of our own and past times, and a considerable por¬
tion of the income derived from the subscriptions
will be expended in adding both old and newly-
published books to the collection. During the past
few years, scores of books, extending in their dates
over two or three centuries, and interesting to Spirit¬
ualists, have been announced for sale in the cata¬
logues of second-hand dealers, without any attempt
having been made by anybody to secure them for
the general public use of the movement. This long-
neglected duty will now be taken in hand, and the
more numerously the names of subscribers to “ The
Spiritualist Library ” flow in, the more rapidly will
scarce and valuable works be sought after in the
outer world and bought up.
‘'Passed to Spirit Life.”—Last Wednesday morning,
Mr. Henry Cook, of 53, Eleanor-road, Hackney, passed to the
higher life after a lingering illness. He will long be remembered
by Spiritualists for the kindness and hospitality with which he
for years welcomed to his home inquirers into the nature of the
remarkable spiritual phenomena presented in the mediumship of
two of his daughters, and for the facilities he gave for investiga¬
tion. His age was fifty-one.
Mr. Serjeant Cox.—Mr. Serjeant Cox was sometimes
slandered in his lifetime by rumours that his convictions on
Spiritualism were in advance of his utterances, and since his
decease one or two journals have given currency to such rumours,
which his friends know to be without foundation. Eor a long
time he believed all the materialisation seances he attended, and
at most of which I was present with him, to be imposture, the
phenomena in early times being presented under such wretched
“ test ” conditions, including the seance on the premises of two
professional mediums, at which he asked a head “ Are you my
uncle, Robert Cox ? ’’ A lawyer, even when of small intelligence,
would never put a leading question like this if he desired proof of
identity, but would do so to see how quickly the powers at work
would take the hint after the fashion of fortune-tellers. I was
there, and he told me that he not only believed this, but all other
materialisation seances he attended about that time, to be impos¬
ture. A year or two later he believed that “ materialisations ”
were mediums in a state of trance, but after he saw strong evi¬
dence through the mediumship of Mr. Harry Bastian and Mr.
Williams, he honestly and puolicly admitted the facts, as was
his wont.-—W. H. Harrison.
288
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 12, 1879.
INFORMATION FO£ INQUIRERS.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Ry the late “Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process i)
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon- j >
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness ] \
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain. j (
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in I)
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture— |)
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti- i \
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards ; \
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy — Community of Sensations, of Emotions— i >
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage— j)
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical I \
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of j)
a Peculiar Force or Influence. , , • |(
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes— !)
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and :)
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAFTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre- : f
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents j /
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of j)
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of j>
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—^Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and j)
Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious i)
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method ;)
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator— i)
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of i)
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro- j)
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not ! >
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s I)
Extatics—Yisipns of the Spiritual World. I \
CHAPTER VIII.—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of j)
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions— j)
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do j)
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism 1 \
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele- i \
graph Founded on It. I (
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame— |)
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of ! \
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic I \
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water j (
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. — i (
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes- i?
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking j /
Clairvoyance—^Predictions of Various Kinds. j)
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested j (
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the | (
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the i (
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought- ;)
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by j)
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c., I \
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the | \
Future. 1\
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits I)
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments— j)
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—' ;)
Opposition to be Expected ! \
. CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State— j /
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi- j)
merits With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments— j)
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen- j \
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Indupes Waking j \
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian I (
Magic. ''i (
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of i)
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep— I \
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep j (
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep— ! (
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of j (
Retrovision. i /
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance— i\
Oases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases— j (
Clairvoyance of Alexis—pther Cases. !|
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe- \)
nomena—Apparitions—rPredictions ' 1 I)
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks ! {
andSuihmary. ^ . ^ - |j
EpirUmlist Newspaper Branch Office S8, British Museum-street, London. H
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and G-alileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Sciev/::, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true.1 Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all G-reat Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how1 egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or mpre persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle m three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
G. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, bqt should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Dm 12, 1870.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER. WORkl) ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all Varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting 'punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; hut
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers; No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting' punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners,
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Alien, 11. Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth, Bed Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and (farlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
ytviter."—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Re-engagement desired by a
German Governess (dipldrrUe). French Music
and all branches of an advanced English education;
£80.—Address Fraulein Moiler, at Dr. Galloway, 17,
Spring-terrace, North Shields.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W-O. Price Id.; Post free
for 1 jd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN¬
GER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
of the current year, even to the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
British national associa¬
tion OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Groat Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
• is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossoniere, Paris.
mHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No, 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager ;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, Ac., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
Ids. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried; Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and. Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trafice-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life Of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wunnbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Liicia C,
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a JJaurited House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profuudis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer oh Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVlI.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXlI.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M. A., Oxon.”
XXXV—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennes fallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs, Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
iii
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirit?
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England;—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances?—Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—rThe Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Fefrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm .
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Chufch, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis •— Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature^—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—,
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss—Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to Spiritualism—Tho
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d,
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS PROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
L—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song o
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. the
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “ Birdie’s Spirit Song ”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer- XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XNVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Socieie Ationyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 12, 1879*
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
Christmas Pudding’,
USE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Bipe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation,Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
Stimulants and insufficient
AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SaLT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
1 he Physical Basis of Life—Good Pood.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&C., &c., use
ENO’S EMIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
FRUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
TjlAGGED, WEARY, AND WORN
JQ OUT!!'. Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“14, Ruedela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Berau.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marlced " ENO'S FRU1-T SALT.'' Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4.5. 9d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS,
Hatcham, London, S.E.
LANGHAM HALL,
Great Portland Street, London.
In consequence of the great success which attended
the first meeting held at Langham Hall, on Monday,
December 1st, it has been decided to, continue the
Meetings during the following dates for the present
month, the 13th, 15th, 18th, and 29th. The prices of
admission are 10s. 6d., 5s., 2s. 6d., and gallery, Is.
Those holding tickets for Concert and Lecture are
entitled to remain and witness the spirit manifesta¬
tions, which are gratis.
Programmes issued at the Hall. Tickets to be ob¬
tained at 26, Southampton-row, Holborn, W.C., and at
the doors.
Messrs. Chapman and Furman wish it to be dis¬
tinctly understood that the prices charged are for the
Concert and Lecture, and the spirit manifestations are
given gratis. W. CHAPMAN, Manager.
26, Southampton-row, Holborn, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shacabae was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14, The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbelrbewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
—24. The Angel of Silence;
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant's Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament.—29. The July Bug.— 30. The Converted
Carman.  
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
The trapped medium;
OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, 6|d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
December, 1879.] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
Spiritualism in some of its Religious Aspects; A
Comparison and a Contrast: M.A. (Oxon)—Principal
Tulloch on Table-rapping: Dr. Nichols—Voices from
the Ages; the Alchemists and their Teachings: P.
Davidson—Philosophical Spiritualism: G. R. Tapp—
The Pocasset Tragedy: J. W. F.—A Catholic Faith.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW Hay Nisbei & Co., 62, Ropework-lane.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d
The Physician. Vol. T. Gt. Harmonia . 7 6
The Teacher. „ II. „ 'f . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ ... 7 6
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, . .76
The Thinker. „ V. ,..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People . • : • . , . . . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . ..36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . ..76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETV’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager
Southampton- uildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 5s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
CONTENTS.
A Curious Presentiment. By C. C. Massey 277
Private iS/anees    278
The Theosophists in India   278
An Encounter with Burglars 279
Random Readings. By Captain R. F. Burton  280
Physical Phenomena  281
A Remarkable Stance in London. By Dr. R. Friese,
of Breslau       282
A Vision of the Night. A Narrative of Real Ex¬
periences     284
A New Public Library in Spiritualism    287
ParagraphsWhat is our Nature?” 279
“Passed to Spirit Life,” 287; Mr. Serjeant
Cox.,.,..,    287
Printed for . the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents.
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London
E.C
