JtEOWSTEKIED AS A NiTVSPAPEIt.
SKf) joU^K®i< f$r6&o 1+0(1(16$.!(
dUtot ^cmimeb' foit^ Spntealism In (&xmi §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque.245, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2,'Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltenaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH: Josefptaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI; Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-secondTstreet&Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-plaee. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S,: 7, Monree-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON :
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 314. (Vox* XIII.—No. 9.)1 LONDON : FRIDAY, AUGUST 30, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
orontenta.
The Interlinked Bings     ...   97
The Lancashire Association of Spiritualists:—Report ... 98
Dunfermline Witches         ... 98
Remarkable Spiritual Manifestations in the House of the
Rev. E. Phelps, D.D  99
Spiritualism in India 102
More about the Phenomena at Dr. Phelps’s. By Epes
Sargent    102
The Formation of a Psychological Society in Cambridge... 102
A Request from Austria   ... ... ' 102
The British Association at Dublin   103
A Life Saved by Spirit Power 104
Correspondence:—Spiritualism in Paris—Animal Psycho¬
logy—Anonymous Assertions about Magic—Occultism
—Spiritualism in East London—Spirit-Hands  106
More from Mr. Howitt on Spiritualism 108
Answers to Correspondents    108
Paragraphs :—The Hydesville Manifestations, 98 ; Trance
Sermons, 98; A True Marriage, 98; Mr. Colville’s Me-
diumship, 102; The Doctrine of Eternal Punishment 108
“THE SPIRITUALIST » NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics oj
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-A- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S. : Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, hut has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenherg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeid (Holstein): Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the *■ Life of Swedenborg ; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. O.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. 11. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling*
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lihdenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt . Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritiialist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great RusseU-street London, W.O.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, .1 franc. Published by the SociM
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOR SEPTEMBER.
Tuesday, Srd.—Seance Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 6th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 10th.—Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
“ “ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, IZth.—Experimental Research Committee.
Friday, 20th.—Library Committee, at 5.'30 p.m.
“ “ Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Wednesday, 25th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
“ “ Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 21th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
“ “ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled td*the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. Sec.
MR. and MISS DIETZ having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (“ One of
the most successful series ever known in London ”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—the
West of England, during the first week in October; Scotland,
during November; the Midland Counties, early in December.
Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route. For par¬
ticulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, Loudon,
S.W. Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture on
“ American Humour,” illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. II. July. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—The Two Schools of Thought. By St. George Stock.
II.—James Hinton. By William White.
III. —Clairvoyance and Psychography. By Epes Sargent.
IV. —The Abate of San Gandolfo. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Remarkable Psychological Experiences. By A. E.
Newton.
VI.—^Psychology of the Bible. By J. W. Farquhar.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. II.—Issoudun. By Rev. H.
N. Grimley.
VIII.—Thirtieth Anniversary of Modem Spiritualism. By
Thomas Shorter.
Leaves from My Life—An Innocent Sinner—Buddhism—
Misp Martineau Defended—More Glimpses of the World
Unseen — Concerning Everlasting Punishment — Possible
Planetary Influences—An Intelligent Tree—Psychography—
The Truthseeker — Views of our Heavenly Home —The
Master’s Field—Marguerite Marie Alacoque.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.     
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or, six copies post free
for 6d. .  -
PLANOHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird's-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billihgton, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W*
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
NNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, 28. No.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the test quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one andean easily be worked by a child,
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of 'interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, Ac., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
EIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O)
DEPOSITS received' at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSORQFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable,
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.Sv, .
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine -
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and “Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Aug. 30, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Caider, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.'W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1. Bernard-villas, Unper Norwood.
Fltz-Gersld, Mrs . 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park. W.
ntz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 8, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton. S.'W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdouarall. 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood. Mrs.. 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
.■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.T).,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belner.
Barkas, T. P„ Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
.Barrett, F , Laneley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F A., 24, St Ann’s-square, Manchester
Bonwick, ,T., F.R.G.S., Vale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W, H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-squarc, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lvnwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Oherstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton. R , 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
SW.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, SW.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A., 14, Wiiton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road, Dalston.
Morse,.! J., F.im Tree-terrace, XJttoxetcr-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newhonld, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, NW.
Newton, W„ 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15. Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. 0., 3. Blandford-square, NW.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Straw-bridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
SW.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morcll, 30. Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, SW.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W,
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withail, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, IL, 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J.W. Gray, Esq, G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
liesident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constan tinonl e.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styrla,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneherg, Holstein.
Vf. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, tT.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey In Asia..
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Kreuz
Kirche, par Neuvied, Prusse, Rhenance.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia.U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris.
Eey.Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A. •
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgonqery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chanssee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A, Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles/
Lieut,-Col. P. Jacoby, H, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A,
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq,, 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Aldlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epr^jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 64, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doton, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalsion, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-Btreet, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
 dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBO RN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
T H E TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Works by the Countess oe Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
cfc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal qf Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
• the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems qf the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. ' By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 London Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
H~ EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston,
Mass. Oolby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Lutber Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office. London. W.O. 
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
A.t home daily from 12 till ,6. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 3 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervons diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
'ARGARET FOX KANE, of the Original
ROCHESTER RAPPINGS, and WIDOW of DR.
KANE, the first Arctic Explorer in Search of Sir John
Franklin, is staying with a friend at 2, Scarsdale Villas,
Kensington, London. Monday and Friday evenings of each
week will be devoted to promiscuous investigations. The
charge on those nights will be greatly reduced.
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
VJL TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
9 engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N. 
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
C is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
H/l'ISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
-i-VJL and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
TV/I RS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal-
-ItJL ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstanees. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS.M.G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Clairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE,”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual- state of trance
during which some qf the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. L*ve and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North—VII. The Burial of Webster—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Past II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI. Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 6s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Ko. 314.—VojLujviE Thirteen; Kumber Nijie.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 30th, 1878.
THE INTERLINKED RINGS. j ! reached the root of the matter; they good-temperedly
After waiting for a long time for the close examination j |
of Mr. Gillis’s interlinked rings, which we have asked for | j
every week, and had telegraphed to Mr. Aksakof, of St. |
Petersburg to furnish, at last decisive information has been 1
obtained, pointing strongly, we regret to state, in the direc- | j
tion of intentional fraud. Mr. Gillis,*who had been satisfied j<
with the rings for two or three weeks, and had not adopted j <
our suggestion of examining them with a microscope, has j j
finally written to Mr. Christian Reimers :—u The keen eye- H
siffht of a friend detected indications of breaks in the wooden |!
ring, and soon afterwards he placed imitations before me in |;
which he himself was unable to point out the fine marks of |'
junction. On putting these broken and glued rings into j
water along with mine, the inserted pieces separated, which
fate was shared by my ring in company with the others.” j
Here, then, seems to be evidence of a most heartless fraud |
practised by one or more of the four mediums upon Mr.
Gillis, who had treated them all most kindly. Nevertheless,
uncertainty is placed upon this view of the case by inquiries
made by Mr. Christian Reimers, resulting in the informa¬
tion that if in turning wooden curtain rings one is broken
when it is very nearly finished, it is a common thing in
the trade to glue the two pieces together. As a general rule
such joints are difficult to detect, and the rings are as good for
practical purposes as those which have never been broken.
The circumstance that such joined rings exist in numerically
small proportion to those which are entire gives a balance
of probability in favour of shameless imposture; yet, on the I
other hand, the assumed impostor must have committed the j
punishable act with the certainty that it would be detected
directly Mr. Gillis submitted the rings to proper scientific
examination, so that in such case the criminal act would at
the same time amount almost to criminal lunacy. Then,
again, at the same stances the unquestionably genuine mani¬
festation of the passage of matter through matter took
place, some true knots having been obtained in an endless
cord, as at Leipzig by Professor Zollner. With the power of
obtaining these genuine manifestations the mediums had no
temptation to resort to fraud; they were paid nothing extra
for the interlinked rings; on the contrary, Mr. Gillis then
held no further seances with them, but left England so pre¬
cipitately with his supposed prize that there was no time to
properly examine the rings, as we suggested, with a micro¬
scope, and the public mind was consequently kept in a state
of vexatious uncertainty for weeks as to whether the evidence
was complete or faulty.
If there is fraud in the matter, no punishment could be too
severe for such a criminal and thoroughly heartless and un¬
grateful offence. And in such case there is the difficulty,
perhaps but a temporary one, of tracing the guilt to the real
person or persons. The four mediums vary more or less from
each other in reputation, also in the number of years they
have been tested and watched by Spiritualists of character.
When the news of the result arrived last Saturday from Mr.
Gillis, none of the mediums ran away in dread of legal
punishment; Mr. Williams and Mr. Rita have since spent
much time with Mr. Reimers, stating that so far as they
know the manifestation was genuine, and suggesting that on
their return from their present visit to Mr. A. J. Riko, at the !
Hague, they shall sit again with Mr. and Mrs. Herne in the j
endeavour to obtain the interlinking of other rings, whose
structure is previously ascertained to be beyond dispute.
It will be remembered that at the past seances, when the |
same sitters and mediums first attempted to obtain knots in
an endless cord, four tight knots came, but, after unpicking |
them with much difficulty, they proved to be but slip-knots. |
Had Messrs. Gillis and Reimers passionately broken up the I
sittings because of this impish trick, they would not have [
| accepted it as a joke of the strange powers sometimes at
work in physical manifestations, and the result of this
i patience was that a little later they obtained three true knots
in an endless cord—knots which no mortal could make with-
| out free ends of the string to manipulate. But the fraudulent
I joining of the rings would be worse than the impish trick
| at first played with the string, for it would have been an act
| of imposture deliberately planned and executed beforehand
| in cold blood. Altogether the present position of the whole
| matter is unsatisfactory, and places alike the innocent and
| guilty—if guilty there be—under a cloud. Therefore, the
| sooner new sittings take place for the production of the manifes-
| tation in an unquestionable form, if such achievement is
| possible, the better will it be for all concerned.
Wood will not do as the substance to constitute one of the
rings. Sir Charles Isham has already pointed out in these
pages that if a ring is placed half in a slit made in certain
kinds of growing trees, the wood will heal in time round
the inserted portion of the ring, after which a wooden ring
could be cut out of the tree in one piece, yet linked into the
j ring of ivory. We presume the ivory ring would be stained,
I and otherwise suffer in this lengthy operation ; also that in
i most cases an abnormal grain would be observable in the
| wooden ring. On this point Sir Charles Isham says in a
letter we have just received from him :—
As to the ring, any one who has any knowledge of trees knows it is
the simplest fact in the world that anything driven into a tree is soon
| covered with a new layer of wood, although this with regard to the ring
j test might not occur to them. You might saw the disc in two or more
j parts, and there would then be several rings linked round the embedded
j one; and were the latter left in the tree a few years, there.would be no
| disruption or flaw in the grain of the wood. I intend'making some, but
j for a large curtain ring three or four years might be required. A poplar
| or willow would produce the result quickest, as they are fast growers. .
If the test is obtained at all it should be obtained with
materials about which there can be no question, so wood of
any kind should not be used. It should also be preferably
obtained with materials which can be identified as real and
sound without the aid of an expert. Bog-oak or jet would
do to prove the phenomenon, but are so easily imitated in
appearance that something which does not require examina¬
tion by an expert, but proves its own genuineness to every¬
body at a glance, had better be chosen, and the substance
| selected should be very light in colour, so as to be easily
I examined for cracks. Cheap and scientifically unobjection-
! able materials would be a ring of true elephant ivory (show-
! ing the so-called engine-turned markings), linked into a large
! hole drilled through the centre of a mutton bone, say the
| middle of a leg or of a blade bone. If both the ivory ring
| and the bone were unbroken, the completeness of the test
| would be plain to observers of the meanest capacity. The
| tooth of a tiger or other large animal, with a hole drilled
j through it at right angles to the axis of the tooth, would
I form a suitable object for linking into a solid ring of that
| unobjectionable substance, true ivory.
At all events, the fierce fire of criticism brought to bear
| upon this ring interlinking problem, has had the result of
| promoting the selection of materials for the production of
| more conclusive results than had previously been sought.
Mr. Reimers called at the shops of three different up-
! holsterers, all strangers to him, who each told him that broken
and glued curtain rings were common. At Bowman Bros.,
| 108, High-street, Camden-town, he was told that one common
| curtain ring out of every twelve might be so broken. But
! one out of every twelve would not be so perfectly joined as
j in the case of Mr. Gillis’s ring, therefore probability is
| strongly in favour of the theory of imposture on the part of
| one of four persons, and this is hard upon three who may
! know nothing of the matter.
98
THE SPIBITUALIST.
Aug. 30, 1878.
THE LANCASHIRE ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The following is the last report of the Lancashire Association of )
Spiritualists, an organisation which does much good proselytising work j
with very little expenditure of funds:—* j
KEPORT. |
Ladies and Gentlemen,—Your committee congratulate the Conference j
assembly here to-day on the third anniversary of its existence. It is j (
three years ago to-day since its first Conference was held at Bury. Since j (
that time your committee has, during its various tenures of office, j j
endeavoured to promulgate the teachings and organisation of Spirit- i j
ualism by every means at its disposal. The measure of success will be j j
plainly palpable to every one who takes an interest in the progress of j j
our movement. The committee’s policy during the last two months has j |
been one of recuperation; but that does not mean inactivity. The ; j
platforms of the various societies have been supplied with speakers for j j i
the Sunday services so far as the executive could command the talent, j j j
It is a matter for congratulation that at this apathetic period of the year j j j
all the societies in the district should be in active operation. Your I |
committee has the greatest pleasure in presenting you the statement of | ]
number and cost of meetings during the quarter. Eighty-nine meetings j
have been held, at a nett cost to the committee of 5s. 3d. for each j |
meeting. It further takes this opportunity of thanking the many gen- | j
tlemen who have so generously assisted the committee by giving j j
public addresses, and in many instances defraying their railway fares i j
out of their own pockets. Your committee would impress upon you j j
that societies receive the greatest share of benefit from this generous ! j
work, therefore it will be obvious to you that it is the policy of societies i j j
to support the committee so far as they are able. Your monthly paper, j (j
The Spiritual Reporter, has now been in existence four months, and has j j j
proved both a success and a great help to the district movement. The j j
nett loss for the four months is 19s. 7jd. This your committee con¬
siders satisfactory. In reference to the Midland Counties’ District j
Committee, mentioned in the last quarterly report, we are happy to say
that the Midland Friends hope to hold a Conference on Sunday, October
13th, 1878. We advise that your next elected committee executive j
depute a representative of your committee to attend such Conference, to
assist by giving advice and experience in forming this new committee.
The friends in the West Riding of Yorkshire are also feeling their way j
to adopt a similar plan of action. We hope this work may long
continue. j
The following balance-sheet will give you the detail revenue and j
expenditure for the quarter:— | j
Revenue, Aug. 4th, 1878:—To Guarantee Fund, £8 15s. 9d.; dona- j)
tions and collections at the Liverpool Conference, £10 16s. ll|d. Dona- | j
tions during the quarter:—Mr. Hargreaves, 5s.; Oldham Society, 14s.; j j
Leigh Society, 5s.; Ulverston Society, 6s.; Barrow Society, £1 4s.; j
Mr. Harper, 3s.; collected at picnic, 19s. 5d.; Mr. John Lament, j (
£3 8s. 3d.; Miss Blundell, £3; Mr. Johnson, £1 Is.; sale of j
Reporters, £6 19s. 3d.; sale of hymn books, £6 9s. 9d.; sale of loose j
tracts, £2 4s. 2d.; sale of tracts in covers, 15s.; sale of books, 6s.; j
advertisements in Reporter, 10s.; affiliation fees, £1 Is. 3d.; guarantors I
to vards loss on Reporter, £1 14s. 4|d.; railway fares paid by societies, j j
£2 8s. 5d.; deficiency, £8 17s. 3d: total, £62 3s. lOd. Expenditure :— j
By balance from last quarter, £7 11s. 2Jd.; expenses of mediums, ]j
speakers, lecturers, and railway fares, £24 11s. 4d.; sundry printing, j
8s.; printing Reporters, £8 5s.; printing hymn books, £9 17s. 6d.; (
expenses of executive, 13s. 4d.; expenses of picnic, £l; Liverpool j
Conference—rent of concert hall and advertising, £5 7s. 6d.; Conference
tea meeting, £3 3s. 9d.; postage on Reporters, 13s. 3|d.; postage on j
letters, &c., 12s. lid.: total, £62 3s. lOd. Audited and found correct, j i
John Campion and J. S. Knott, auditors.
Showing a deficiency of £8 17s. 3d. Stock on hand of hymn books, I
tracts, and books, £26 Os. 4d. value. The membership returns from the !
affiliated societies in the district gave for the May quarter 500. The j j
estimated returns for August quarter are expected to include 650 mem- j
bers. These returns, it is hoped, will be attended to faithfully by the J
secretary of each society every quarter, so that the number of members J
in the district may be known from quarter to quarter. Your committee
now lay the quarterly report upon the table for your observations, and
hope with the election of the next committee that this work will be
further enhanced and persevered in.
John Lamont, President. j
Charles Parsons, Secretary,
An article by a French writer on an election to the French Academy,
in the Christian World of the 16th inst., speaks of the newly-elected j
academician, M. Henri Martin, as “ our national historian, the special {j
friend of M. Thiers, a republican senator, and a most distinguished j |
Spiritualist.” Is the word “ Spiritualist ” here used merely in the sense j!
of the opposite to “ Materialist ? ” 1 j
The Hydesville Manifestations.—Mr. A. J. Riko writes from the j j
Hague, Aug. 25th, ^ I thank your correspondents for the information I j j
wanted about the manifestations in Dr. Phelps’ family. I feel glad to be j |
able, in my turn, to answer the question about the first account of the i j [
Hydesville phenomena. You are right. It was published by E. E. Lewis, j j j
at Canandaigua, New York, in 1848. It is a pamphlet of about forty ! |
pages, and appeared as soon as two or three weeks after the first I I
rappings, bearing the title, A Report of the Mysterious Noises Heard ! (j
in the House of Mr. John D. Fox, in Hydesville, Arcadia. This is j ) j
really the first book published in direct connection with our present j J
movement, and as such is interesting to Spiritualists. Can any one j j j
tell me whether a copy is still obtainable in England or America ?” ill
DUNFERMLINE WITCHES.
We have received from the publisher, Mr. John Tweed, of Glasgow,
the following extract from a book now in the press, and which will
shortly be published, entitled The Annals of Dunfermline and Vicinity,
from the Earliest Authentic Period to the Present Time, a.d. 1069—1878,
interspersed with explanatory notes, memorabilia, and numerous illus¬
trative engravings. The author is Mr. Ebenezer Henderson, LL.D. :—
A.D. 1643. Six Witches Burnt at the Witch-loan, and Two
others Die in Prison.—This was a great witch-catching and witch¬
burning year in Dunfermline. A staff of officials, called “ witch-
watchers” and “ witch-catchers,” had been appointed early in 1643 to
seize and put in ward (prison) all reputed witches, in order that they
might be tried for their “horrid and abominable crime of witchcraft.”
Accordingly, “ a great many old shrivelled-up women, with woe-begone
countenances, were warded, and if any of them used the long staff in
walking, so much the better for the catchers.”
In Dunfermline Register of Deaths, notice is taken of the poor inno¬
cent unfortunates. During the month of May, July, and August, it
seems no less than six poor women were burnt for being reputed witches !
Their names were Grissel Morris, Margaret Brand, Katherine Elder,
Agnes Kirk, Margaret Donaldson, and Isobel Millar.
These victims having been tried and condemned to be burnt, were
accordingly carted east to the Loan (witch-loan), and being placed in
the middle of a pile of wood, with feet and legs tied, the pile was set on
fire, their bodies were soon consumed, and, it is to be hoped, that
their better part received that mercy which had been denied to them on
earth.
In “ The Loan,” many criminals in the olden time suffered. At the
foot of “ The Loan,” near where the railway bridge crosses the road,
there was the institution of “the witches' dub.” Sometimes an old frail
woman was thrown into it. If she sank, and was drowned, then it was
supposed that “judgment had found her out;” if she swam on the
surface, which by the bulk of her clothing she might sometimes do, then
it was judged that there was something “ no cannie aboot her,” and on
some pretence the victim got to the flames at last. Determined not to
lose their victim, they appear to have acted on the principle of “ Heads,
I win; tails, you lose!” Ascending the loan (the witch-loan), and
about 100 yards from “ the witch-dub,” and on the east side of the loan
road, there was a small knowe on which the witches suffered, and
still further up the loan stood “the gallows” where execution was
done.
The names of the victims who died “in ward ’’ were Jonett Fentoun
and Isobell Marr. In the same Register of Deaths their fate is thus
recorded:—“The lOth day June, 1643, Jonett Fentoun the witch, died
miserably in ward [in prison], and was bro1 to the witch knowe, being
trailed and carted yrto and castin into a hole yr withot a hist ’’ (a coffin).
Being brought out of prison, the superstitious bigots were probably
allowed to trail her along the streets to the hole at the witch knowe. Find¬
ing that a cart at hand would be more convenient for their work, she
was thrown into it, and carted to “the hole.” Again:—“TheVlth
day Augt., 1643, Isobell Marr, being delaittit [accused] be the rest of her
nyt* bor [neighbour] witches for a witche, and being detained yrfre in the
laiche thieves' hole, shoe hangit hersel and was cairyed to the witche
knowe and yerdit." Let those who sound the praises of “the good old
times” take such doings as these into their earnest consideration.
Witches, it seems, made their debut in Dunfermline in 1627.
Next year’s meeting of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science will be held in Sheffield, under the presidency of Dr.
Allman. In 1881 it will beheld in Swansea.
The valuable new apparatus for registering changes in the weight of
mediums during materialisation manifestations, generously presented to
the British National Association of Spiritualists by Mr. Charles Black¬
burn, of Didsbury, reached 38, Great Russell-street last Wednesday,
and may now be seen there. We shall publish a description of it soon.
A True Marriage.—The Rev. Robert Collyer, of Chicago, in a
sermon on marriage, in which he advocated the doctrine that all true
marriages are made in heaven, said:—“ I have a friend, a man of great
intelligence, who told me that when he was in the middle of the PaqiAc
on a voyage, he saw a face in a dream, and it was borne in upon him
that this was the face of his wife. He went through many adventures
after that, was away about seven years, came back, went home, went to
a quarterly Quaker meeting in Bucks County, Penn., and there saw, in
a Quaker bonnet, for the first time with his human eyes, that face he
had seen in his dream. The maiden became his wife, and I never saw
a happier pair on earth, or a sweeter home of children, and I have no
doubt of the perfect truth of the story.”—The Religious Magazine
(Boston, U.S.).
Trance Sermons,—The utterances in trance addresses are sometimes,
but not always, limited by the knowledge of the mediums. One of the
mediums recently said, in the trance state, when speaking of the past
history of Catholicism in England, that there was small consolation in
the reflection that tortures, the burning of human beings at the stake,
and so on, had not been committed by Protestants. As a matter of
fact, Queen Elizabeth and the Protestant Bishop of Norwich of her time,
did much in the way of burning Roman Catholics, which ugly fact
is not now published in this country by those Protestant authorities
who issue books “ for the use of schools,” so the spirits did not give
forth knowledge which was beyond that in the head of the medium.
For reasons of this kind, ordinary trance addresses, although better
than the sermons of average local preachers, are not usually of suf¬
ficiently high quality to compete with normal discourses like those of
the Rev. H. R. Haweis, in whose church consequently many Spirit¬
ualists are to be found regularly every Sunday morning, despite the
inspirational addresses given elsewhere.
Aug. 30, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
99
REMARKABLE SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN THE i
HOUSE OF THE REV. E. PHELPS, D.D. 1
(Concluded from page 78.) j (
About the middle of May Dr. Phelps and Harry were |
riding to Huntington, a distance of seven miles. When they | j
had proceeded about one mile on the way, a stone, about the
size of a hen’s egg, was thrown into the carriage, and j j
lodged on Dr. Phelps’s hat. Soon another and another were j j
thrown in. The carriage was a covered one, and the j I
back curtain was down, and there was no way a stone j j
could have been thrown in by ordinary means. At one I j
house where they stopped, the moment the front door was | j
opened two stones were thrown, one of which entered the
door as it stood partly open, and the other hit one of the j j
lights of glass, and broke it. Harry was standing on the { j
door-steps at the time, and there was no one in the street I j
who could have thrown them. Two stones were also thrown j j
against another house where they stopped of an errand. (
Sixteen stones were thrown into the carriage on the doctor’s j j
return, and including those thrown against the two houses, J j
twenty, in driving three or four hours. (
As it was now apparent that these strange things were in ] |
some way connected with Harry as a medium, it was thought 1 j
best to separate him from the family. Accordingly board i j
was obtained for him in a family two miles distant. One J j
day, when he came home, he told his mother, in great secrecy, (|
that on the night previous he had been awakened from his \
sleep by some persons dressed in white, whom he saw stand- j j
ing by his bedside. He was frightened, and was about to (j
scream, when the person spoke and said, <c Be not afraid, ]
my son; lam your father;” and then placed in the boy’s j
hand a silver watch, and told him to wear it for his sake. j
The boy affirms that he had the watch in his hand ; that it | j
was not a dream ; and that he was entirely awake; and
that his father told him to tell no one of it but his mother
and Dr. Phelps. His mother told him it was nothing but a
dream, and turned it off as a light affair.
It seems that a valuable silver watch had been left the boy
by his father, which was not in use, but had been kept locked
up in a drawer of a dressing-table, to which he (IJarry) had
no access. A member of the family, having occasion to look j
into the drawer, saw the watch and knows it was there, and ! j
that the drawer was locked, and the key given to Mrs. j |
Phelps. A few minutes after the conversation with his jj
mother about the apparition and the watch, the night previous, j j
he came in from the yard with the watch in his hand ! He I j
said his father had again appeared to him, and put the I I
watch into his hand again, and said, (i Wear this for | I
my sake.” He brought the watch into the house, and j
showed it to his mother, and said that bis father j
said,' £‘Tell your mother to look at the second- j
hand.” The hand was off, and lay on the face of the |
watch under the crystal. A credible person will make oath, j |
if called upon, that she saw the watch in the drawer, where j j
it was usually kept, not more than six or eight minutes
before, and that she locked the drawer and gave the key to |
Mrs. Phelps. The key had been in possession of no other |
person, and Harry had not been in the room during the j
time. The watch was taken to Dr. Phelps, and he tried to j j
replace the second hand, but could not succeed. He closed I j
it, leaving the hand loose on the face, and passed it back to I j
Harry, saying that he must take it to the watchmaker.
When he took it in his hand, he exclaimed, “ Why, it’s j j
on 1 ” They looked, and it was on and going. In a few j j
minutes it was off again, and was put on a second time, all j
within a minute or two. The doctor affirms that it was not
out of his sight a moment; that he knows the watch was not | j
opened, and that no visible power was employed in doing it.
On one occasion the pianoforte was played while it is j
known that no person was in the room; and, at another j |
time, it was turned around, the front towards the wall, and | J
so far removed from the side of the room as to allow the j
player room to sit next to the wall; the stool was also j
appropriately placed. j
On several occasions, about this time, certain members of j
the family saw, or thought they did, visible appearances. |
Dr. Phelps did not give entire credit to these statements; j i
not but what he had full confidence in the honesty of the | j
family, but the excited state in which some of them had
been for a long time led him to think that they might
imagine they saw what had no existence in fact. Towards
the last of May, it was signified that one of the spirits who
had communicated would appear visibly — first to the
daughter, then to Mrs. Phelps, and then to the doctor him¬
self. They asked in what manner he would appear, and the
answer was, “ In a sheet.” Between ten and eleven o’clock
the same night, soon after the family had retired, Anna, who
occupied the east bedroom, the door between her room and
that where the doctor and his wife slept being open, and a
lamp burning on a stand so placed as to light both rooms,
called to her mother, and said, “ There it is, in a sheet.”
Dr. Phelps asked where; when she said it was in the door
between the two rooms, coming from the room the doctor
occupied; but the doctor saw nothing. The daughter was
frightened, and in a few minutes looked up and saw nothing.
He was represented as moving slowly from one room to
the other.
In about two minutes Mrs. Phelps exclaimed, ei There it
is,” and drew the clothes over her head. Both the daughter
and mother saw it at this time, but still the doctor saw
nothing, although in as favourable a position as either of the
others.
After two or three minutes had elapsed, the doctor also
saw it. It appeared to him to move slowly from the hall
chamber into his, and turn and move slowly back. It had
the appearance of a very tall person with a sheet thrown
around ; he saw only the sheet. In about one minute,
something was thrown on to the bed, which proved to be a
sheet which had been taken from the wardrobe in the hall.
Dr. Phelps declares that he was. not frightened in the least,
and could not have been mistaken in the appearance. Some
two or three weeks subsequent to this a similar appearance
was seen, and Dr. Phelps sprang out of bed, determined to
seize hold of it if possible. It came part way into his room,
and then moved slowly back. The daughter affirmed that
the doctor was within two or three feet of it when it dis¬
appeared, and a sheet dropped into a chair. These were the
only instances in which the doctor saw anything himself.
Others of the family saw persons in a mysterious way
several times.
At one time, while Anna was in the dining-room, and a
cousin of hers and some of the children in the front yard, her
attention was arrested by some one entering the front parlour.
She went in, and saw three gentlemen—two of them sitting
on the sofa, and one on a chair by the table—all having
their hats on, and drawn down over their eyes more than
usual; the one by the table had his feet upon the table, and
was reading a paper. She was surprised that neither of
them rose up or looked at her as she entered the room;
and when she was within five or six feet of the one
nearest her, he leaned over on one side and fell, chair and
all, on the floor, and instantly all disappeared ! She was
frightened, and ran to her cousin, who was near the front
door. She came in; but no persons were there, neither
could they have entered without her seeing them. The
chair was thrown down, but no person near who could have
done it.
A few other instances occurred in which appearances were
supposed to have been seen ; but the circumstances were not
of a character to put the matter beyond a doubt, therefore
no record was kept of them. About the middle of May,
Dr. Phelps spent some time with the Fox family in New
York. He soon decided that the manifestations were
essentially the same as those at his house, with a few points
of difference. With them property was not destroyed, and
they were not painfully annoyed. The sounds were different,
it being with them a double or rolling sound, and at his
house a single knock. They could call upon and receive
answers from different spirits, or what claimed to be different
ones. This could be done at his house. During the months
of June and July the same general occurrences continued at
Stratford. Sometimes for two or three days there would
seem to be an entire cessation of ‘‘hostilities.” Then they
would commence again with redoubled force. People from
all parts of the country were visiting the house, to whom
every facility was afforded to search into the cause. News¬
paper discussions were going on, casting the most unjust
and painful reflections, subjecting the family to suffering
100
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 30, 1878.
little short of martyrdom, while numberless other persons
had as good an opportunity of explaining the matter as the
persecuted family. In this affliction I can sympathise some¬
what with Dr. Phelps and family. In the first days of these
phenomena in western New York, all persons who were
involved with or interested in them were looked upon and
treated at once as void of all common feeling or sensibility,
both privately and publicly; their names passed about,
coupled with opprobrious epithets ; their houses were entered
without ceremony, and even in the face of direct request to
the contrary ; their right to quiet and repose invaded, their
houses often being crowded with visitors, prompted by idle
curiosity and a malicious desire to torture, beyond the mid¬
night hour ; still insisting to remain, and adding insult to
injury by declaring in your ears that it was an arrant cheat
—a grand humbug—being carried on ; and all for—what ?
And at the same time those whose ill-fortune it then seemed
to be to have an identity with it were weeping and praying
for the scourge to be removed from them; for scourge it
Seemed, indeed, under such circumstances.
Dr. and Mrs. Phelps concluded, in August, as the demon¬
strations were then less frequent, on taking a short journey
of three weeks. The disturbances were still more annoying
in their absence than before; and it was decided as best to
close the house for the winter, and remain away. Accord¬
ingly, on the 11th of September, Harry left for Pennsyl¬
vania, and it was arranged that the other members of the
family should follow within three weeks. It seems that,
although the manifestations were connected more intimately
with Harry, his presence was not all-important, as they did
not cease altogether when he left; but communications were
still made, though with less force and violence. The knock-
ings were not as loud, and the communications less free or
frequent. At one time a note was thrown into the room,
while Dr. Phelps was writing at the desk, which contained
the following : “ How soon do the family expect to go to
Pennsylvania ? I wish to make some arrangements before
they go. Please answer in writing.” The doctor replied as
desired, as follows : u About the first of October,” and
placed the paper in a position where he had before put
writings of the kind, and heard nothing further.
Two or three days after this a communication was given
by use of the alphabet, saying that Root, a gentleman who
had been in the house, had destroyed the doctor’s book
He inquired a What book ?” and was answered “ The big*
book.” Yet he did not know what book was designated,
and repeated the question, and received the answer, “ The
big book in the secretary.” Still it was not understood.
Again was spelled “ Look and see!” Dr. Phelps had
in the secretary two blank books; in the larger one
he had written a full account of the mysterious manifes¬
tations, in the form of a diary, and, having noted them, as
they occurred from day to day, they were recorded with more
minuteness than could afterwards be done. Upon looking,
it was discovered that every page that had been written upon
was torn from the book and gone! After along search, the
fragments of the leaves were found in the vault. Copies of
the characters, which the doctor had carefully taken, and felt
anxious to preserve, were every scrap gone. There were, in
a dressing-table drawer in the chamber, a great number of
the notes sent. These were set on fire with a match and
burned in the drawer. The fire was discovered by the smoke,
but not until the papers were so far charred as to injure them
beyond preservation. A few of these writings only are
retained, which were in other places. The last of the
annoyances was on the 25th of September, and was that of
throwing ink upon the daughter’s dress. She was standing
on the piazza, near the front door; the window of the front
chamber was open, from which was thrown a small bottle of
ink. The ink went over her dress in a way to entirely unfit
it for further use. There was no person in the chamber who
would have done such a thing for mischief; and, indeed, no
person in the house who would have been guilty of it.
The young lady was just setting out for a visit at New
Haven, from which she was anticipating much pleasure, and
I cannot conceive of any feeling, short of sheer malevolence,
that would prompt such an act.
On the second day of October the family, with the excep¬
tion of Dr. Phelps and the cook, left Stratford to go "to
|| Pennsylvania. During their absence all demonstrations
ceased, with what may be termed one exception. A letter,
I addressed by Dr. Phelps to Mrs. Phelps, contained, when it
| reached her, some of the spirit writing in pencil, saying that
| “her husband was sick and wished her to return if she
I expected to see him alive.” He was then in good health;
i but the next week was sick and confined to his bed two or
| three days. There may or may not have been some con-
| nection between the two occurrences. It was the design of
| Dr. Phelps to separate the family for a time, in order, if
| possible, to get rid of the annoyance; and for the five weeks
he remained at Stratford, after the family had left, no distur¬
bances took place. Harry stayed in Bucks county (Pa.) all
winter, and the other members of the family lived in
Philadelphia.
In the month of March the family returned to Stratford.
The house had been closed and under the charge of a neigh¬
bour, and no sign of any disturbance was visible, as every
article of furniture was found just as they left it. About
the fourth or fifth day after their return slight rapping was
heard as they sat at the tea-table. They affected not to
notice it, and the next day it was repeated more distinctly,
but no response was made. Soon after, certain characters
were found about the house, which were known, from the
circumstances, to be of recent origin. Two or three days
after, distinct communications were made by a spirit purport-
| ing to be Dr. Phelps’ daughter, who died at the age of
I twelve years. On being questioned, this spirit could not give
| any evidence of identity.
About the first of May several communications of a trifling
character were given. On one occasion the doctor asked if
they would be troubled any more as they had been, when they
answered by rapping the following:—
<£ Be not afraid that they will trouble you more,
Though we have not quitted Connecticut shore.”
At another time certain characters were given, which were
interpreted by the rapping as follows : “Evil one has gone,
and better one has come.” No communications were made
after the early part of May, but some things occurred indi¬
cating their presence and desire for mischief.
At one time, on cutting a loaf of bread, there were found
| in it nails, pen-holders, small sticks and tin, under circum-
| stances which showed that they must have been placed there
| after it was put on the table, and before the family were
| ready for tea. At one time Harry’s hat was hid away, and
| then his cap, and then another hat. He took his brother’s
| cap to use, and that was also taken away. On the evening
| of the 18th of July they set fire to some papers in the
I doctor’s secretary, and some twenty papers and letters were
| burned before they were discovered. Fire was set at the
( same time to the papers in both the closets, under the stairs
i in the hall. They were discovered by the smoke. Two or
| three days after this, when some friends who had visited
I them were about to leave, their bonnets and some other
| articles could not be found, although search was made in
! every part of the house, until the train by which they were
| to go to New York had passed. They were at last found,
I locked into an enclosed washstand, in a way that made it
| morally certain that they could not have been placed there
I by human hands.
On the 29th of July Harry left to spend some time at
I New Lebanon, N.Y.; and during his absence no manifesta-
I tions were noticed, although they were constantly on the
| look-out for something of the kind. Anna and her mother
I left for Philadelphia on the 25th of September, and they
| had been so long exempt from annoyances that they hoped
| they had ceased altogether. But Harry had the manifesta-
| tions at New Lebanon, and there was first operated on, by
| invisible agency, to produce a trance, into which he passed
| with a sudden shock. He had never been entranced before,
| although frequent attempts had been made to do so. In
| this state he evinced all the phenomena common to good
| clairvoyance. On his return to Stratford, on the 9th of
j October, the sounds accompanied him almost constantly;
| but they seemed less inclined to mischief than formerly,
| because, as they said, “ Harry had passed to a higher state,
I where the low and ignorant spirits could not communicate
! with him.”
Aug. 30, 1878.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
101
On the evening of the 12th, Hr. Phelps, Harry, and two j |
younger children, were seated at a table; responses were j|
frequently given by raps under the table. Dr. Phelps in- j j |
quired if it would accommodate them at all to have some j j j
substance to rap with ; to which they replied affirmatively. | j
He threw down a table-knife; the raps seemed immediately j 1
to be made by striking the knife against the table-leaf, and I j
soon it was tossed up on to the table. A small tea-bell | j
was then placed under the table; it was rung several times I |
and tossed on to the table as the knife had been. It was j |
again put down, and returned as before; the same being | j
repeated several times in succession. The light was then j j
extinguished, and the candle put under the table with a jj jj
match-box containing matches, and the spirits requested to ; j
light it. They distinctly heard the match drawn upon the I !
bottom of the box, which was prepared with sand-paper for r
that use. . All saw the light; but the first match went out. j j
Again the scratching of the match was heard; it ignited, I j
the candle lighted, and was placed upon the table! The I i
experiment was repeated several times, with the same re¬
sult ; every precaution being taken to prevent collusion in
the matter. m
On a subsequent occasion a chair was placed upon the I |
table by invisible power, and the two children, Harry and I j
Hannah, raised up and placed upon it; they could neither [ !
of them tell how it was done. The sensation was that of j
shine person placing a hand under them and raising them j j
up. Many of these things occurred when the room was | j
darkened, as has been the case in numerous other places, j
and for which explanations have been recorded, as given j
by the spirits. On the evening of the 20th of October, the j
light being put out of the room, the bell was placed under j
the table, with a request that it should be rung, and placed |
in the doctor’s hand. He was sitting by the table with both ! j
his hands lying on his lap open, with the palms upward. j
The bell rang several times with some violence, and then j
was placed in his left hand. This was repeated four or five I
times in succession. Dr. Phelps sat beyond the reach of !
any one, and the room was sufficiently light for him to j j
have detected any movement on the part of persons | j
present. He requested them to let him feel the hand that j j
placed the bell in his. Yery soon a hand came in contact j
with his, took hold of his fingers, shaking his hand, passed j
slowly over the back of his hand, then over the palm agaiu, | I
took hold of his fingers, and he felt what he is sure to have j
been a human hand. He describes it as being cold and I
moist, which accords with my own experience repeatedly, |
and that of my friends. They then took hold of his foot, !
shook it with much force, loosened the string, took off the | j
shoe, and placed it upon the table before him. At his re- j
quest the shoe was replaced, the heel adjusted, and the !
strings drawn up, but not tied. I
On a subsequent occasion a large-sized tea-bell was rung
under the table, then rose up, passed round the room, ]
ringing violently all the way, and fell upon the table. The j
candle was in the closet, but the room was sufficiently |
light to make it certain that no person left the table to j
convey it. It was manifest that from the time Harry I
returned from New Lebanon the manifestations began j
gradually to subside. They were less frequent and less j
marked. It was arranged that he should accompany the j
family to Philadelphia, and go to a boarding-school at a j
town about twenty miles distant from the city. At dif- I
ferent times he had been told that if he went there he |
would again be annoyed by bad spirits. The question was I
many times put, “ Will you annoy him again if he goes to
the school ?” Answer.—“ We will not, but others will.”— j
“What others?” Answer.—“Those who were with him (i
last summer.”—“ Will they disturb him if he stays here j
and goes to the academy in Stratford ?”—“ No. They will I
not disturb him while he is with you.”—“ What will they !
do if he goes to Pennsylvania ?” Answer.—“ They will j
tear his clothes, destroy his books, and break his windows.” |
—“Can you not control those bad spirits, and prevent <!
their doing him any injury ?”—“No.”—“ Will you do all jj
you can?”—“Yes.” At another time Dr. Phelps inquired if jj
they would not leave him, as his mother was so much jj
opposed to the whole thing. “ Will you not, to oblige her, j
leave him, that he may be a medium no longer ?” said the 1 li
doctor. The reply was, “ If we leave him, evil spirits will
get possession of him again.” These communications were
made by what purported to be the boy’s father. For two
weeks previously to going to Philadelphia the mani¬
festations had almost wholly subsided; perhaps only
occurred when requested ; and notwithstanding the re¬
peated declarations that when he should leave for the
school in Pennsylvania, the bad spirits would come in and
make him trouble, it was determined to try the experiment,
and on the 11th of November- the family set out for Phila¬
delphia, where they were to spend the winter, while Harry
was to go to school. He remained with the family in
Philadelphia about a week, where a few communications
were given to Dr. Phelps in private. The spirits said they
would begin to annoy the boy on the cars, on his way to the
school, would pinch him and tear his clothes, so that, when
he got there, they would be found torn, and that the
troubles would follow him in the school as long as he
stayed there. Dr. Phelps, under all the circumstances,
thought it best not to send him; but on consultation it
was decided to have him go, and on the 19th of November
he started for the school. Dr. Phelps went a mile or two
with him, put him under the care of the conductor, and
told him to report on his return if anything worthy of
notice occurred on the way. In two days the doctor was
sent for to come and take him away. He said that soon
after his father left him on the cars, he was pinched,
pricked with pins, and annoyed in various other ways until
he reached his destination; that, on his arrival there, he
found that his pantaloons were torn in front, between the
waistband and the knees, in two places, several inches in
length. He changed them for another pair, which were
new, and made of very substantial material, and these were
torn down in front, at least half a yard in length, before the
doctor arrived there. The knockings had attended him in
school and other places ; his books were torn and damaged
to the amount of two dollars, which the doctor paid. The
family where he was had become alarmed, and would not
keep him, and he was taken away. The boy stated that on
one of the evenings, while he was there, he was walking in
the street, when his cap was mysteriously taken from his
head and thrown upon the side walk. As he stooped to
pick it up, he saw the flash of a gun at some distance, and
a bullet passed over his back and struck a board fence near
him. He was afterwards informed by the rapping
that, had he not stooped down, he would have been
killed, and that his friendly spirit took this means to pre¬
serve him.
Dr. Phelps now concluded to return with Harry to Strat¬
ford, and was told that the bad spirits would have no
control over him there. The family in which they resided
in Philadelphia had become alarmed at the strange occur¬
rences, and finally they again returned to Stratford. From
that time the disturbances began to subside, and by the
15th December, 1851, they had ceased altogether. The
family remained at Stratford till the spring of 1852, when
they returned to their former residence in the city. The
house at Stratford is occupied by another family, but no
disturbances have ever occurred with the family which now
occupy the house, and none with Dr. Phelps’s family since
the above date.
Thus ends one of the most remarkable histories in the
whole course of modern spiritual manifestations. The
authority on which it comes to the world is indisputable,
and the characters of all concerned are beyond suspicion.
It will be observed that generally the demonstrations, as in
the case of Mr. Calvin E. Brown, in the Fox family, were
less boisterous after the family consented to hold com¬
munication with them. It seemed to be the desire of a
spirit to communicate and set right a matter which was
making him unhappy. This accomplished, the demonstra¬
tion ceased.
From the foregoing narrative it will be seen that these
phenomena do not attach to places, as some have sup¬
posed. It makes the fact equally clear that they do attach
to persons, and that without certain media they cannot,
to any extent, take place. If there is such a thing as
“ haunted houses,” they must belong to another class of
phenomena, or a very different phase of the same, than
Atjg. 30, 1878.
102 THE SPIRITUALIST.
those always depending on the presence of particular
persons, as at the house in Stratford.
Another fact seems also to be proved by the above nar¬
ration, namely, that persons may be powerful mediums at
one time and afterwards lose the power, for neither of the
media of Dr. Phelps’s family in Stratford have had any
proof of mediumship for years.
SPIRITUALISM IN INDIA.
A correspondent writes from the Bengal Presidency,
July 29th
‘ ‘ Natives in and around the Presidency towns are beginning
to inquire into Spiritualism, especially the Bengalese about
Calcutta. The men of Behar, North-West, and Central pro¬
vinces will wait yet a while. Compared with the great size of
the country, Europeans are here very much scattered, and, as a
rule, unsettled. Their aim is to leave the country for good
as soon as possible; there is, therefore, little care or time
for anything but business. The Spiritual papers and
periodicals which accumulate on my hands, usually during
long railway journeys I tie in packets, and hand to the guards,
drivers, and station-masters. Enclosed is a note from a
medical friend, to whom I sent the last number of The
Spiritualist, in which the weighing experiments performed by
the British National Association of Spiritualists are contained.
The Spiritualist seems to me to be well suited for intelligent
people, there being little or nothing of the sectarian spirit
in it. I call it spiritual sectarianism when men begin to
publicly call each other ‘ brothers ’ over an idea which is peculiar
to themselves. The sect sentiment appears to have taken a
new and probably a decided hold on the minds of some
Spiritualists, and the result is that the fundamental truth,
however universal in itself, is reduced to the humble limits
of private property.”
MORE ABOUT THE PHENOMENA AT DR. PHELPS’S.
BY EPES SARGENT.
In The Spiritualist of the 2nd inst. you ask for informa¬
tion as to where you can find accounts of the phenomena at
Dr. Phelps’s house in America. You will find a brief
account in my Planchette (pp. 49, 50), all the particulars
of which, together with many others, were confirmed in a
letter which Dr. Phelps wrote me in reply to one which I
addressed to him, asking for information.
My friend Dr. J. R. Nichols, editor of the Boston Journal
of Chemistry, writes:—a I once, for several hours, listened |
to the recital of what occurred in the dwelling of the Rev. ]
Dr. Phelps, of Stratford, Connecticut, from the lips of the 1
venerable man himself. I was reduced to the alternative of j
regarding him, his family, and a wide circle of intelligent |
friends, as the most egregiously duped circle of men and
women, or the greatest liars and impostors—or of be- j
lieving in the reality of phenomena which human reason
and science were incompetent to explain. I felt compelled j
to adopt the latter alternative.”
The Rev. Dr. Eliakim Phelps was a well known and |
highly respected clergyman, whose reputation for strict |
veracity and good sense was above all question. The pheno- j
mena in his house began March 10th, 1850, and continued |
for seven months. They were of the most unaccountable |
character. In his letter to me Dr. Phelps wrote:—{{I have |
seen things in motion above a thousand times; and in most
cases where no visible power existed by which the motion
could be produced. There have been broken from my win¬
dows more than seventy-one panes of glass, more than
thirty of which I have seen broken before my own eyes.”
You will find quite a full account of the Phelps pheno¬
mena in Modern Spiritualism, by E. W. Capron, published
in Boston in 1855. Probably some of your readers have
called your attention to his account before this letter reaches
you. My principal object is to assure you of the high
character of Dr. Phelps, and to impart the fact that he
wrote me a letter confirming the particulars in the news¬
papers of the day, and which are reproduced partly in
Blanchette, but much more fully in Mr. Oapron’s book. I
published the letter in the Boston Transcript some time in
1851, I think.
i The phenomena are so well authenticated, so various, and
| ! have been so fully corroborated by subsequent developments
! in Spiritualism, that the Stratford occurrences will always
form a most interesting chapter in the history of the subject,
j Boston, Massachusetts, August 12, 1878.
THE FORMATION OF A PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY IN
CAMBRIDGE.
j Mr. A. E. Hunter, of Jesus College, Cambridge, sends
| us the gratifying news of the formation of an association for
| investigators into Spiritualism in the intellectual University
I town in which he resides. The name of the society is The
j Cambridge Association of Investigators into Spiritualism.”
j The rules will be the same as those adopted, after long
j experience, by the well-managed Dalston Association of
! Inquirers into Spiritualism, with a few additions.
The following are the names of the officers of the Society :
President, Mr. E. O. Fountain, Pembroke College; Vice-
j President, Mr. Nicholls ; Treasurer, Mr. D. Burgess ; Secre¬
tary, Mr. Harpley; Librarian, ®Mr. A. E. Hunter, Jesus
College; Sub-Librarian, Mr. H. Burgess.
The subscription will be Is. a month, to include member¬
ship, and the use of the library. There will likewise be a
fund for purchasing the current literature of the movement,
to which fund members may or may not subscribe. Terms
| of subscription to the current literature fund 6s. a year, or
6d. a month. Any books on Spiritualism or kindred subjects
will be gladly received for the library, if addressed to Mr.
H. Burgess, Fitzroy-street, Cambridge.
Mr. Hunter forwards us a new set of rules for forming
spirit circles, likewise a small tract on u Spiritualism ; What
j is it? ” He says that heAnd his friends are distributing them
round the neighbourhood of Cambridge, and find them
generally well received.
A REQUEST FROM AUSTRIA.
The Baroness von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand), who has done so much
for years to forward the cause of Spiritualism on the Continent, desires
to place the following case under the notice of English Spiritualists, who,
it is to be hoped, will liberally act upon her suggestion
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist?'
Sir,— Viribus unitis is the best motto for Spiritualists, and bearing this
in mind, I write to solicit your sympathy for Dr. Julius Neubertb, of
Berlin. I know him to be a worthy and good gentleman, who has for
forty years worked assiduously as a mesmeric healer. He has been
successful in curing a great number of patients, but as they were in most
cases poor people, he has received no adequate remuneration for his
services. Then, this last spring, he became so weak and exhausted
that he was obliged entirely te cease from his labours, and retire to the
Thiiringer Wald in order to recruit his strength. He is still unable to
undertake his work, and is consequently now, in his seventieth year,
I without means of support. During this cessation from his occupation
he has read and thought much on Spiritualism, and has himself received
manifestations which he considers of importance, but which he has no
means of placing before the world. I have already begun to get up a
| subscription for him here; and thinking of our dear brother and sister
Spiritualists of England, I write to beg you to try the same for him
through your excellent ’organ, The Spiritualist newspaper. You have
already done many works of charity in this way, and I should be exceed-
| ingly thankful if you would try it again for Mr. Neuberth. He is indeed
I worthy of your aid. His present address is Dr. Julius Neubertb,
| Georgsthal Gotha, Germany. Knowing the generosity and kind hearts
I of our English brethren, I hope in this way to help him.
Adelma von Yay Wurmbrand.
| Gonobitz, Styria, via, Gratz, Austria.
] Mr. Williams, the medium, asks us to state that he left London for
| the Continent on Tuesday last; therefore his rooms are closed until
further notice. Letters for him should be addressed to the care of Mr.
! A. J. Riko, at The Hague. Mr. Williams intends to be in Paris in the
middle of September, and to return to London at the end of that
month.
Mr. Colville’s Mediumship.—Mr. W. J. Colville, the trance medium,
has been doing much good of late to provincial societies of Spiritualists
| by his inspirational lectures, and the generous way in which he has
! sometimes given them freely, for the benefit of the poorer localities. He
| contemplates leaving England for the United States in a few weeks*
time. Mr. Colville will deliver a trance address on “ The Present and
I Future Life Advantages of a Knowledge of Spiritualism,” in the Hulme
i Town Hall, Stretford-road, Manchester, on Thursday, September 5th,
i! at 8 p.m. The admission will be by payment. He will also lecture in
i' the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-street, Manchester, on the following
Sunday, September 8th, at 2.30 and 6.30 p.m., the subjects to be chosen
by the audience. Admission free; a collection at the close.
Am. 30, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST. 103
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT DUBLIN.
{From our Special Correspondent.')
Chester, August 25th, 1878,
Now that the proceedings of the British Association are
over, and I am on my way back to London, I think, in re¬
viewing the events of the last two weeks, that there is every
reason for satisfaction at the generally improved tone of
intelligent men in relation to psychic subjects. A consider¬
able portion of the address of the President was devoted to ,
the problem about the possibility of four dimensions in space, j
brought forcibly of late before the scientific world by i
Professor Zollner’s experiments with Henry Slade at Leipzig, j \
and Professor Huxley could not keep aloof from utterances j <
about the same problem. Mr. Romanes delivered an evening j <
lecture, entirely devoted to the psychology of the lower ]
animals, and this, again, is a symptom of the turning of the |1
tide. In conversation I heard no word of disparagement of I
Spiritualism from any member of the British Association at |
Dublin ; but several spoke of it as an open question, and as i
a matter for investigation by those interested. At one of
the chief clubs in Dublin I met several members who wished i
to investigate, and who, from information they had pre¬
viously received in the form of testimony, were thoroughly i
alive to the importance of the subject.
While Spiritualism has spread through large masses of
people in Lancashire and Yorkshire, it has fewer adherents
in the whole of Ireland than in several small English towns.
Perhaps race characteristics have something to do with this,
and a skilled anthropologist who, aided by coloured maps,
would deal with this question before one of the fortnightly
meetings of the British National Association of Spiritualists,
would be advancing a new and interesting subject. But race
characteristics"', will not explain everything, if anything, in
relation to the slow growth of Spiritualism in Ireland.
Dublin, for example, swarms with priests; one is met in
nearly every street and in nearly every tramway car; so plenti¬
ful are they that they appear to be in an unduly large pro¬
portion to the total population. All these being the servants
of a well-organised Church, they have the power, if they use
their tongues freely, to raise a prejudice in two days, from
one end of Dublin to the other, against any man known to
advocate the truths of Spiritualism, and this would go a long
way in the direction of ruining any individual in a com¬
mercially dependent position. In private life there is more
Spiritualism in Dublin than I had supposed two weeks ago,
and I imagine that the large number of priests, with their
eyes and tongues everywhere, has a blighting influence upon
freedom of religious thought and utterance, and is the cause
of the prevailing secrecy about facts witnessed in private
spirit circles. Yet I am not aware that the Catholic priest¬
hood have done anything in Dublin adverse to Spiritualism ;
probably when they first awaken to its growth in their midst,
they will oppose it as they do all religious movements out¬
side their Church, but, perhaps, after taking more time to
consider, they may, like Canon Gilbert, pause in their
attacks. With scientific materialism advancing in all
directions, spreading from the intellectual classes into those
beneath them, neither Catholics nor Protestants act wisely in
opposing practical scientific proof of a life hereafter, of a life,
moreover, in which men feel their responsibility for deeds
done in the body. This is stronger authority to appeal to
than to oral or written traditions riddled by the fires of
modern criticism, and, rightly or wrongly, repudiated or
ignored by a large and influential section in the nation.
These remarks are not made from any special prejudice
against the Roman Catholic Church ; if the priests of all the
Protestant denominations were united under one head, and
were so increased in number that we met one of them in
nearly every street and railway carriage, I should say that
the country was priestridden to an extent injurious to
freedom of thought and action in matters religious. And I
do not say that such spiritual pastors and masters of
the weak minds beneath them intend to do harm; they
may be but the creatures of circumstances, the inheritors of
a vicious system handed down to them by their forefathers.
The priests I conversed with in Ireland were intelligent and
warmhearted men, who evinced a great disposition to oblige
strangers. At the conversazione given by the Catholic
University to some of the members of the British Associa¬
tion, refinement and art culture were more manifest than
in some of the more expensive and pretentious soirees.
What with landowners looking after the material interests
of Irishmen by retaining them in their own possession until
that coming time when free trade in land shall be established,
and what with priests looking after the spiritual interests of
Irishmen, and allowing them no freedom of thought or
action in matters religious, most of the working classes
seem to be helpless creatures, utilised body and soul for the
benefit of their superiors as completely as London cab-horses
are utilised from first to last. I said to a large employer of
labour: The casual observations of a stranger are not
worth much ; but am I not right in the opinion that most of
the working people here have lost confidence in themselves ?”
“ Not quite,” said he, “ for they never had any confidence
in themselves.”
The British Association for the Advancement of Science
I has been placed in a dubious position by the action of its
managers in relation to Spiritualism. By the rejection of
| Mr. Crookes’s paper at Edinburgh about psychic phenomena,
the Association was historically committed as the Royal
Society once committed itself by rejecting Benjamin
Franklin’s paper on lightning conductors. And more
| recently by the stringent rules about the reading
I of papers made since the discussion at Glasgow about
j psychic phenomena, the managers of the British Associa-
| tion have intercepted no spiritualistic paper, for no
j Spiritualist ever offered them one, but have possibly thinned
| the number of papers on other subjects. At the Dublin
| meeting, the Biological Section and all its departments, read
| no papers at all on the Thursday, and little or nothing was
| done in most of the sections on the closing day. The Rev.
| S. Haughton called the attention of his hearers on one
| occasion to the very short supply of papers in one of the
j sections. How far this short supply resulted from the
| restrictive rules laid down about the reading of papers, in
| the attempt to prevent consideration of the psychic pheno-
1 j mena of nature, it is impossible to say.
Birmingham, Monday.
I | After my arrival here I called upon that good worker in
m Spiritualism, Mr. Aaron Franklin, at his house in Birming-
m ham, near Navigation-street, and he furnished me with the
I | following information, which I quote in his own words :—
! j 11 Last Monday, at Mr. Perks’ rooms in Bridge-street West,
111 an interesting seance was held, or rather stances, as there
| ! were two—the one directly following the other. Mr. John
| i Summerfield was the medium. The following friends were
j ] present: Mr. Sneath and friend, Mr. and Mrs. John Colley,
| I Mrs. S. and friend, Messrs. Pembrook, Perks, Powell, and
| Eades, Mrs. Summerfield, Mrs. Franklin, and myself. The
( j sittings were not held under strict test conditions, although
j | there were one or two sceptical friends present. The pheno-
| j mena were continuous, and of a convincing character. A
I) j large quantity of flowers was placed upon the table; flowers
111 were put in the dark into the hands of each sitter, some
(| being conveyed to those outside the circle. A violin was
I j taken, and the strings struck over the circle of the sitters,
111 and it gently touched their heads. The room was suffused
! i with sweet perfume, and the process of fanning was kept up
) j for some time by our spirit friends. The spirits at one time
j | asked Mrs. Franklin if she would like anything in particular.
! ! She replied,1 Anything you please;’ but I said I should very
jjj much wish them to bring a canary for Mrs. Franklin if they
j ! possibly could. The spirits’ reply was, ( We will try to do
| | so.’ In the early part of the sitting we noticed a glass
| j I tumbler on the mantelpiece; we heard it removed to the
| ! table; in a few moments we heard the glass move, and were
| [ requested to light up, and we were .all delighted to see under
! i the tumbler a canary lying asleep, apparently mesmerised.
111 The spirit said it is for Mrs. Franklin. Then through the
| [ medium was said, 1 Mamma, it comes with all the love that
jjj it is possible to convey from a child to its mother; and
I I always when you look at it think of me.’ At the close of
i j the seance the bird was safely removed to Harborne, where it
||1 is doing well, and is highly prized by the recipient as a
| j birthday gift from a dearly loved daughter in the Summer
jii Land.”
104
THE SPIRITUALIST,
A LIFE SAVED BY SPIRIT POWER. ‘iOfl
In Scribner'’s Monthly ior. November, 1871, is an article n
entitled “ Thirty-seven Days qT Peril,” vividly illustrating ! |
the loving care with which friendly spirits watch over and j /
guide our footsteps. j)
Mr. Truman C. Evarts was one of a party of several who j |
started in August of that year to explore the region of the | /
Upper Yellowstone, in the Rocky Mountains. After some j)
days’ travelling he became separated from his companions. ! (
In his narrative he says : ‘* On the day that I found myself j j
separated from the company, and for several days previous, 11
our course had been impeded by the dense growth of the l|
pine forest, and occasionally large tracts of fallen timber, !
frequently rendering our progress almost impossible. When- |
ever we came to one of these immense windfalls each man |
engaged in the pursuit of a passage through it, and it was j j
while thus employed, and with the idea that I had found j
one, that I strayed out of sight and hearing of my com- ||
rades.” .... ' ■ ||
The next morning, rising at dawn, he mounted his horse j
and took his course in the supposed direction of the camp,
but he was obliged frequently to dismount and examine the ij
ground for the faintest indications. (c Coming to an open-
ing, from which I could see several vistas, I dismounted for j|
the purpose of selecting one leading in the direction I had j j i
chosen, and leaving my horse unhitched, as had always been j 11
my custom, walked a few rods into the forest. While sur- j j |
veying the ground my horse took fright, and I turned around | j
in time to see him disappearing at full speed among the j j I
trees. That was the last I ever saw of him. It was yet I |
quite dark. My blankets, gun, pistols, fishing tackle, | j
matches—everything except the clothing on my person, a j j
couple of knives, and a small opera-glass, were attached to j j
the saddle.” j j
Not despairing, he travelled that day, and at night reposed I j
among fallen trees, and upon a couch of pine foliage which ! j
he gathered for the purpose. “ A feeling of weakness took i j
the place of hunger. Conscious of the need of food, I felt j |
no cravings. Occasionally, while scrambling over logs and j i
through thickets, a sense of faintness and exhaustion would j !
come over me, but I would suppress it with the audible ex- I j
pression, c This won’t do ; I must find my company.’ ” On j j
the next day he emerged from the forest into the open | I
country, and discovered some thistles, the roots of which ] j
were nearly the only food he thenceforth subsisted upon, or j !
rather starved upon. He was exposed to storms of mingled j !
snow and rain, his clothing was torn, and through the rents j i
the chilling moisture found ready access. On the third day I j
he discovered a group of hot springs, and selecting a spot j I
between two of them, he built a bower of pine branches, j j
and there remained seven days. On the morning of the ] |
eighth day after his arrival at the springs he recommenced j |
his wearisome and almost hopeless journey. <( Weakened ! j
by a long fast, and the unsatisfying nature of the only food j j
I could procure, I know that from this time onward to the j |
day of my rescue, my mind, though unimpaired in those ! |
perceptions needful to self-preservation, was in a condition j !
to receive impressions akin to insanity. I was constantly j |
travelling in dreamland, and indulging in strange reveries j j
such as I had never before known. I seemed to possess a j j
sort of duality of being, which, while constantly reminding j j
me of the necessities of my condition, fed my imagination I i
with vagaries of the most extravagant character. Neverthe- I !
less, I was perfectly conscious of the tendency of these j I
morbid influences, and often tried to shake them off, but j j
they would ever return with increased force, and I finally I j
reasoned myself into the belief that their indulgence, as it j j
afforded me pleasure, could work no harm while it did not j i
interfere with my plans for deliverance. Thus I lived in a | |
world of ideal happiness, and in a world of positive suffer- | |
ing at the same time.” j j j
After many days spent in searching for some trail, he j
says : u I selected for a landmark the lowest notch in the j j j
Madison range of mountains. Carefully surveying the jagged jjj
and broken surface over which I must travel to reach it, I j |
left the lake and pushed into the midst of its intricacies, j I j
All the day until nearly sunset I struggled over rugged hills, 11 !
through windfalls, thickets, and matted forests, with the j j |
rock-ribbed beacon constantly in view. As I advanced it ‘‘■i
Aug. 30, 1878.
receded, as if in mockery of my toil. Night overtook me
with my journey half accomplished.” The next day he
arrived at the base of the range and scanned hopelessly its
insurmountable difficulties. “ What a feeling of helpless
despair came over me with the conviction that the journey
of the last two days had been in vain.”
F While I was thus considering whether to remain and
search for a passage, or return to the Yellowstone, I ex¬
perienced one of those strange hallucinations which many of
my friends have misnamed insanity, but which to me was
Providence. An old clerical friend, for whose character and
counsel I had always cherished peculiar regard, in some
unaccountable manner seemed to be standing before me,
charged with advice which would relieve my perplexity. I
seemed to hear him say, as if in a voice and with the
manner of authority: ‘ Go back immediately, as rapidly as
your strength will permit. There is no food here, and the
idea of scaling these rocks is madness.’
&i Doctor,’ I rejoined, ‘ the distance is too great. I
cannot live to travel it.’
“ 1 Say not so. Your life depends upon the effort. Re¬
turn at once. Start now, lest your resolution falter. Travel
as fast and as far as possible—it is your only chance.’
“ ‘ Doctor, I am rejoiced to meet you in this hour of dis¬
tress, but doubt the wisdom of your counsel. I am within
seventy miles of Yirginia. Just over these rocks, a few
miles away, I shall find friends. My shoes are nearly 'worn
out, my clothes are in tatters, and my strength is almost
overcome. As a last trial, it seems to me I can but
attempt to scale this mountain or perish in the effort, if
God so wills.’
“ i Don’t think of it. Your power of endurance will
carry you through. I will accompany you. Put your trust
in Heaven. Help yourself, and God will help you.’
u Overcome by these and other persuasions, and delighted
with the idea of having a travelling companion, I plodded
my way over the route I had come, intending at a certain
point to change it so as to strike the river at the foot of the
lake. Stopping after a few miles of travel I had no diffi¬
culty in procuring fire, and passed a comfortable night.
When I resumed my journey the next day the sun was just
rising. Whenever I was disposed, as was often the case, to
question the wisdom of the change of routes, my old friend
appeared to be near with words of encouragement, but his
reticence on other subjects both surprised and annoyed
me  Once, while struggling through a field of tangled
trunks which seemed interminable, at one of the pauses I
found myself seriously considering whether it was not pre¬
ferable to die there than renew the effort to proceed. I felt
that all attempts to escape was but a bitter prolongation of
the agony of dissolution. A seeming whisper in the air,
‘ While there is life there is hope; take courage,’ broke the
delusion, and I clambered on  I lost all sense of time.
Days and nights came and went, and were numbered only
by the growing consciousness that I was gradually starving.
I felt no hunger; did not eat to appease appetite, but to
renew strength. I experienced but little pain. The gaping
sores on my feet, the severe burn on my hip, the festering
crevices at the joints of my fingers, all terrible in appearance,
had ceased to give me the least concern. The roots which
supplied my food had suspended the digestive power of the
stomach, and their fibres were packed in it in a matted,
compact mass.
“ Not so with my hours of slumber. They were visited
by the most luxurious dreams. I would apparently visit the
most gorgeously decorated restaurants of New York and
Washington; sit down to immense tables spread with the
most appetising viands ; partake of the richest oyster stews
and plumpest pies ; engage myself in the labour and pre¬
paration of curious dishes, and with them fill range upon
range of elegantly furnished tables, until they fairly groaned
beneath the accumulated dainties prepared by my own hands.
Frequently the entire night would seem to have been spent
in getting up a sumptuous dinner. I would realise the
fatigue of roasting, boiling, baking, and fabricating the
choicest dishes known to the modem cuisine^ and in my
disturbed slumbers would enjoy with epicurean relish the
food thus furnished, even to repletion. Alas! there was
more luxury than life in these somnolent vagaries.
Aug. 30. 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
105
“It was a cold, gloomy day when I arrived in the vicinity | j
of the falls  The only alternative was to seek shelter j |
in a thicket  Constant friction with my hands, and j j:
unceasing beating with my legs and feet saved me from | !
freezing. It was the most terrible night of my journey, and j j
when, with the early dawn I pulled myself into a standing I j
posture, it was to realise that my right arm was partially | !
paralysed, and my limbs so stiffened with cold as to be | |
almost immovable  ~ ! !•
“My old friend and adviser, whose presence I had felt | §
more than seen the last few days, now forsook me altogether, j !
But I was not alone. By some process which I was too | |
weak to solve, my arms, legs, and stomach were transformed I !
into so many travelling companions. Often for hours I j j
would plod along conversing with these imaginary friends, j j j
Each had his peculiar wants which he expected me to j j
supply. The stomach was importunate in his demands for j |
a change of diet—complained incessantly of the roots I fed j j
him, their present effect and more remote consequences. I j j
would try to silence him with promises, beg of him to wait | |
a few days, and when this failed of the quiet I desired, I j j
would seek to intimidate him by declaring, as a sure result j j
of negligence, our inability* to reach home alive. All to I j
no purpose—he tormented me with his fretful humours I j
through the entire journey. The others would generally ! j
concur with him in these fancied altercations. The legs j
implored me for rest, and the arms complained that I gave j
them too much to do. Troublesome as they were, it was a j
pleasure to realise their presence. I worked for them, too, j
with right good will, doing many things for their seeming j
comfort, which, had I felt myself alone, would have remained I j
undone. They appeared to be perfectly helpless of them- | |
selves; would do nothing for me or for each other. I often j j
wondered, while they ate and slept so much, that they did j j
not aid in gathering wood and kindling fires. As a counter- | j
poise to their own inertia, whenever they discovered languor j j
in me on necessary occasions, they were not wanting in i j
words of encouragement and cheer. I recall, as I write, an j j
instance where, by prompt and timely interposition, the jj|
representative of the stomach saved me from a death of j W
dreadful agony. One day I came to a small stream issuing | I f
from a spring of mild temperature, on the hillside, swarming > ml
with minnows. I caught some with my hands and ate them j j
raw. To my taste they were delicious. But the stomach j j
refused them, accused me of attempting to poison him, and j j
would not be reconciled until I had emptied my pouch of j j
the few fish I had put there for future use. Those that I 11 j
ate made me very sick. Poisoned by the mineral in the | |
water, had I glutted my appetite with them as I intended, j j
I should doubtless have died in the wilderness, in excru- j j
ciating torment. ‘ ' I I
“ A gradual mental introversion grew upon me as physical j j
weakness increased All doubt of immortality fled in j j
the light of present realities. So vivid were my conceptions | j
of the future that I longed for death,, not less as the begin- j j
ning of happiness than as a release from misery. Led on j j
by these reflections, I would recall the varied incidents of j i |
my journey—my escape from the lion, from fire, my return I |
from the Madison Range—and in all of them I saw how I j
much I had been indebted to that mysterious protection | i
which comes only from the throne of the Eternal. . . . Bitter j j
as was my experience, it was not unrelieved by some of the I j
most precious moments I have ever known  j j
“ I resumed my journey the next morning, with the j I
belief that I should make no more fires with my lens. I j n
must save a brand or perish. The day was raw and gusty; j j
an east wind, charged with storm, penetrated my nerves 11
with irritating keenness. After walking a few miles the j j
storm came on, and a coldness unlike any other I had ever ! !
felt seized me. It entered all my bones. I attempted to ' (|
build a fire, but could not make it burn. Seizing a brand, I ft
I stumbled blindly on, stopping within the shadow of every I j j
rock and clump to renew energy for a final conflict for life, j j
.... Once only the thought flashed across my mind that j 11
I should be saved, and I seemed to hear a whispered com- | j
mand to‘struggle on.* Groping along the side of a hill, j j
I became suddenly sensible of a sharp reflection, as of bur- m
nished steel. Looking up, through half-closed eyes, two | j
rough but kindly faces met my gaze.
“ ‘ Are you Mr. EvartsII 6 Yes, all that is left of him.’
‘ We have come for you.’ ‘ Who sent you?’ ‘ Judge Law¬
rence and other friends.’ e God bless him, and them, and
you! I am saved!! and with these words, powerless of
further effort, I fell forward into the arms of my preservers
in a state of unconsciousness. I was saved.”
Dr. Eugene Crowell, of New York, commenting on this
narrative in his Primitive, Christianity and Modern Spirit-
ualism, says:—“ He was saved, and by angelic ministry.
Thousands of persons who have read the story of Mr. Evarts’
experience know—provided he relates that experience cor¬
rectly, of which I have no doubt—that there was no illusion,
no hallucination about it. Both what he saw and what he
heard were real. The most blessed and willing task which
our spirit friends undertake in our favour is to comfort and
support us in our trials and sufferings, and many times
through their instrumentality we are made happier in
adversity than we were in prosperity. He says ::—4 Weakened
by a long fast, and the unsatisfying nature of the only food
I could procure, I know that from this time onward to the
day of my rescue, my mind, though unimpaired in those
perceptions needful to self-preservation, was in a condition
to receive impressions akin to insanity.’ It is a well-known
fact that the condition of the system that is induced by
fasting is favourable to the reception and recognition of
spiritual influences, and Mr. Evarts’ condition was precisely
the most favourable for receiving these impressions; and
after testifying that his mind was unimpaired, we are not
surprised that, in accordance with the education which
rejects all spiritual impressions, he should liken this con¬
dition of mind to that which accompanies insanity, but this
professed .opinion of his does not affect the truth as to this
condition. He was constantly travelling in dreamland, and
indulging in strange reveries such as he had never before
known. He seemed to possess a sort of duality of being,
which, while constantly reminding him of the necessities
of his position fed his imagination with ‘ vagaries ’ of the
most extravagant character. Allowing that spirit friends
foresaw the hardships and the exhaustive labour to which
he would be subject, what could have been better designed
for his welfare than to thus fill his mind with vagaries
so well calculated to divert his thoughts from the appalling
difficulties and dangers that environed him, to protect him
from the crushing effects of the paralysing fear and hopeless¬
ness that otherwise would in a few days have rendered him
unequal to the task before him. It must be admitted that
these 4 vagaries ’ which filled his mind were helpful and suc¬
cessful, and if so, they were the best means that sympa¬
thising and wise intelligences could employ in that stage of
his difficulties. By their means he 1 lived in a world of
ideal happiness, and in a world of positive suffering at the
same time.’ And it was necessary that he should suffer;
otherwise the incentive to exertion would have been wanting;
and provided his spirit guides possessed the power to prevent
all suffering, it would have been unwise to exercise it.
1 ‘ So much for the 1 strange reveries ’ or 4 vagaries ’ that so
well served the purpose of partially diverting his thoughts
from his condition; but if these were not spirit impressions,
what can be said of his 4 old clerical friend,’ whom he clearly
recognised standing before him, and for so many days ever
present to counsel and encourage him. When losing time and
strength in his perplexity whether to proceed or retreat, this
spirit of his old friend said to him, 4 in a voice and with the
manner of authority, 44 Go back immediately, as rapidly as
your strength will permit. There is no food here, and the
idea of scaling these rocks is madness.’” Then when he
objected, this friend rejoins : 4 say not so. Your life depends
upon the effort. Return at once. Start now, lest your reso¬
lution falter. Travel as fast and as far as possible; it is your
only chance.’ Again he states his objections, and again his
friend replies : 4 Don’t think of it. Your power of endurance
will carry you through. I will accompany you. Put your
trust in Heaven. Help yourself, and God will help you.’
44 Is it possible to admit that Mr. Evarts is here stating
the truth, and yet doubt the overwhelming intrinsic evidence
of the reality of this appearance, of its being an objective
perception, and not a subjective impression. Can it for a
moment be supposed that the earnest pleadings, the emphatic
warnings, the promised realisation of hopes, together with
106
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 30, 1878.
the sound judgment and sagacity displayed in the counsel
here given, were the product of a delirious brain, and espe¬
cially when Mr. Evarts himself declares that his mind was
unimpaired ; and the apposite reasons apparent in his objec¬
tions sustains the truth of his assertion ; and besides which,
the result of adopting this advice was his salvation. The
promise given by his friend was faithfully kept. He says :
‘ Whenever I was disposed, as was often the case, to question
the wisdom of the change of routes, my old friend appeared
to be near with words of encouragement.’ Here is a con¬
tinued process of action which indicates a high degree of
intelligence, of sound judgment, and is entirely incompatible
with the operation of an unsound mind, and cannot possibly
be ascribed to a dual action of the mind of Mr. Evarts,
unless, on the one hand, we assume that he was insane, when
there is not the least proof of it; or, on the other, that he was
perfectly rational, and yet in a mental condition in which he
possessed two individualities, one striving against the other,
and yet both seeking his best good.
“ At first, no doubt, all his spirit friends could do was to
impress his mind with pleasing thoughts and images ; but
as he became more attenuated, less earthly and more
spiritual, his spiritual vision was opened, and he was able to
discern the spirit of his old friend. About this time also
his uneasy slumbers were made pleasant, and even delightful,
and consequently refreshing, through the labours of the same
intelligences in impressing his mind with dreams, or rather
visions, of luxurious repasts which he found occupation in
preparing, and in which he indulged; and from the satis¬
faction thus obtained, though apparently visionary, derived
some compensation for the real deprivations connected with
his situation.
With Mr. Evarts, as in all other cases where great exer¬
tions are necessary while the physical powers are in an
exhausted state, varied means were required to incite to
exertion, and that interest might be excited and sustained,
and in time his spirit guides found it necessary to resort to
other means to support his sinking powers. He had become
familiar with the appearance and conversation of his clerical
friend, and as fresh stimulus to exertion, his guides devised
the plan of personifying the different members of his body,
by which his arms, legs, and stomach were, to all appearance,
transformed into so many travelling companions, with whom
he conversed upon the wants of each, and which they assumed
he was bound to supply, thus imposing upon him a responsi¬
bility which turned the currents of his gloomy thoughts
from himself, and stimulated him to renewed exertions.
* Troublesome as they were, it was a pleasure to realise their
presence. I worked for them, too, with right good will,
doing many things for their seeming comfort, which, had I
felt myself alone, would have remained undone Asa
counterpoise to their own inertia, whenever they discovered
languor in me on necessary occasions, they were not wanting
in words of encouragement and cheer.’ And at one time the
representative of the stomach prevented him from eating
poisonous minnows, and thus saved him from a painful
death.
“ It will be said by some, these were trivial means for
angels to use; if they were the agents employed they would
have resorted to means more worthy of their elevated con¬
dition ; but supposing that they in their wisdom found these
the best means, would they not wisely have employed them ?
Is a physician of the highest attainments above using the
proper means, however humble, in relieving his patient and
effecting his cure? Could the doubter, or perhaps caviller,
have devised different and more effectual means to accom¬
plish the deliverance of this unfortunate man ? I doubt it,
and believe he will also, if he candidly consider the peril
and difficulties that environed him; his sole nourishment
the thistle root; what we would consider a mockery to pro¬
pose for this purpose; with insufficient clothing; exposed
to the vicissitudes of weather, with no protection at night;
compelled to travel footsore, maimed, and exhausted for
weeks together before he could hope to reach a human
habitation, his salvation was a miracle, even when effected
by the aid of watchful and devoted spirit friends. Without
their assistance, and left to his own unaided resources, his
deliverance must have been impossible.
<( Mr. Evarts is not alone in ( experiencing one of those
strange hallucinations which many of my friends have mis¬
named insanity, but which to me was Providence.’ These
experiences are not uncommon to the human family, and
notwithstanding the determined manner in which most men
combat what they call £ these hallucinations,’ there are
moments when a conviction that they are of a higher
character, and deserve a better name, will flash upon the
mind and fairly challenge confession; and I much mistake if
Mr. Evarts himself does not since this experience fully
believe in angel ministration, and I have little doubt that he
would have fully acknowledged to this belief in his narra¬
tive could he have found a respectable and popular magazine
with the independence and courage to admit it with such a
confession.”
arumgponneuce.
[ Great freedom is offered to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.  
SPIRITUALISM IN PARIS.
Sir,—Since my arrival here, over a month ago, I found that some
healthy and promising changes have taken place among the followers
of the harmonial philosophy. I scarcely believed in the near proximity
of those changes when I left Paris in December last. The “ Spirites ”
and “ Spiritualists,” so antagonistic toward one another, have to some
extent clasped hands, and, what seems more extraordinary to me, is
that the leading disciples of Kardec should have made the forward step
in the matter of conciliation, and adopted such practical ways and
means as to leave no loopholes for dissentients to hide in. At great
expense the Societe Spirite and Revue Spirite have established their
new quarters in a more convenient place, at the north-east end of the
Palais Royal, No 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, where comfort and
elegance are combined for the benefit of members and visitors. The
hall, or meeting-room, is of good size, well-lighted, and contains the
Spiritualistic publications of all countries. Alongside is a neat library-
room, where the shelves are loaded with books and pamphlets. As an
earnest endeavour to be up and doing, the reorganised society
lately requested me to write to Boston, to the publishing house of Rich
and Colby, for a large number of works to increase this library, and
make it attractive to English readers, residents or visitors. The not
defunct but transformed Societe Spirite, which had a rather too defined
personal character—“ for the diffusion of the doctrines of Allen Kardec ”
—is now styled “ The Scientific Society for the Study of Psychology.”
I am aware that The Spiritualist has already published the substance
of the above information, and furthermore made known the constitution
and regulations under which the referred-to society acts; but I dare say
the repetition, with additional points, will not be considered superfluous.
Mr. Leymarie presides as chairman at the meetings of the Psycho¬
logical Society on Tuesday and Friday evenings, and acquits
himself well of that function, which, under the new circumstances,
becomes at times difficult to fill, as the combative faculties of sections, not
fully married in tight bonds as yet, are apt to kindle and blaze to some
extent, Some of the opposers of the doctrines of Kardec frequent
these meetings and take part in the discussions; they also at times
deliver lectures. As a rule, the hall is made lively and agreeable by
the presence of many attentive listeners, ladies and gentlemen ; and at
every meeting foreigners from different countries are to be seen, even
from Australia. Mr. Edward Maitland, author of The Soul, and How it
Found Me, accompanied by a lady relative, attended lately one of the
mesmeric stances held in the hall. Tuesday evenings are devoted to
mesmeric experiments and discourses, Mr. Hippolyte and a confrere
acting as principal operators. There are in Paris several mesmeric
societies; one, established 1860, at No. 20, RuedesNeuve Petits Champs,
where I found a large company of ladies and gentlemen, members prin¬
cipally. The subjects that we saw did not show any signs of clair¬
voyance, and I understood that they had but few sensitives of that
description. Mr. Dangerville, residing on the premises, is the president
of the society, whose members, as a rule, are opposed to our doctrines.
I saw there a Mr. Donato, of Li£ge, France, who has a celebrated
sensitive and clairvoyant, whose powers have been tested, I am told,
before large assemblies here and elsewhere. I find that the cause is
somewhat impeded here by divers circumstances. The Government
regulations render it difficult to step forward and to assert its claims,
and the people, as a rule, are averse to paying mediums for services
rendered. At the Psychological Society I met an ex-abie, le pere
Marshal, author of L’Esprit Consolateur, and Memoires d'un Mis-
sionaire, two works which have attracted much notice and praise. Mr.
Marshal is a fluent and elegant speaker. He, with Father Hyacinthe,
founded the New Church at Geneva.
Among the literati here are found many warm friends of the cause,
also in the ranks of artistes. La Religion Ldique, edited by Mr.
Fauvety, a celebrated writer, devotes (monthly) several pages to
Spiritualism. Mr. De Bonnemere contributes able articles on the
subject in that paper. I find, however, that most book writers take the
high flights of the doctrine; go too much into the scholastic style—
abstruse sense; and do not generally attach themselves to experimental
phases and demonstrations. Henry Lacroix,
Paris, August 20th, 1878. .
ANIMAL PSYCHOLOGY
Sir,—In Mr. Romanes’ very able lecture his conclusion is that
** the only difference which analysis can show to obtain between the
mind of man and the mind of the lower animals consists in this, that
Aug. 30, 1878.
THE SriHlTUALIST.
107
the mind of man has been able to develop the germ of rational thought, j
which is undeveloped in the mind of animals, and that the development j
of this germ has been due to the power of abstraction, which is ren¬
dered possible by the faculty of speech.’’ As leading to this conclusion j
—which I am not going to dispute—he says that “ from the mental con¬
dition of uneducated deaf-mutes we learn that, in the absence of lan- i
guage, the mind of a man is almost on a level with the mind of a brute |
in respect of its power of forming abstract ideas.” Immediately pre- !
ceding this he states that a deaf-mute, previous to education, “ supposed j
the Bible to have been printed by a printing-press in the sky, which was
worked by printers of enormous strength; ” and that, in another j
similar case, a deaf-mute'“ supposed the object of going to church to be j
that of doing obeisance to the clergy .”
Now if deaf-mutes, who have “ never been taught finger-language,
or any other sj'stem of signs,” can yet possess ideas—** abstract ” or not j
—like these, is there not, somehow, a very great difference between the |
lower animals and human beings before language comes into play at all ?
Which of the lower animals can form conceptions like these ?
Should Mr. Romanes observe these lines, and give a few words in
reply, he will confer a favour on many who, like myself, have no scien- I
tific knowledge on this most important subject. A. T.
Peebles, Aug. 26th, 1878,
ANONYMOUS ASSERTIONS ABOUT MAGIC. J
Sir,—For the further information of the readers of the article* (
ff Opinions about Occultism and Spiritualism,” in your last issue, and |
all other truthseekers equally interested but possibly disappointed and |
intimidated from their cherished studies by the extracts presented j |
therein, and for the confirmation of the grand truth embodied in it i j j
of the necessity for a natural bias, physically and mentally, towards ) j
the occult, in all who would attain to any proficiency in its practical (i
working, I send a verbatim extract from a letter from an intimate j
friend of the author of Art Magic, never before published. The writer !
says :—
“ My friend, the author of Art Magic, can do all he writes of, make
himself invisible, travel the air, or any of the feats described. He can /
command the elementaries, or do anything else of which he writes; he j
has Hindoo servants who can also do so ; but he is a man of rank and j
station, and of course will not make an exhibition of himself, or parade I i
his powers before a gaping world. He insists upon it that the practical (j
powers of Art Magic are only to be obtained, as he obtained them, and |
as the Fakeers of India obtain them by the arts he has laid down. ..... j
My friend has fully convinced me there is no royal road to power, (j
and that invocations and talk are of no effect, without a body pre- )
pared physically, and a mind concentrated by contemplation, fasting, \ |
abstinence, and severe mental and physical exercises. In these methods \ j
the true virtue of initiation consists.” > j
As to this “ M. A. (Oxon.) ” seems conclusive when he says “ nothing j j j
short of the severest exercise of will, so severe as to paralyse the j j j
mental powers for a long subsequent time, can avail to produce any j)
objective effect”—unless, of course, the individual possesses the natural j
hereditary bias I before referred to, or is so favourably circumstanced I!
and situated as to be able and willing to subject himself to a pre- j j
paratory course of training, obviously undesirable and probably unsatis- I j
factory, except to the few who already possess from birth, if they do not [
cultivate or exercise, those psychical germs. IJ
One oe the Five Hundred.
occultism. (
Sir,—I have read with exceeding interest the most able and admir- )
able article in your number this week from the pen of Mrs. Hardinge. j
I, as a Spiritualist, not as yet an occultist, cannot but endorse all that j
her eloquent language narrates. )
It appears to me that Spiritualists, as students of the divine nature, (
the non-material part of man, ought to be the foremost to enrol them- j;
selves in the list of those anxious and eager to solve that most momen- j |
tous problem. Spiritualism gives us the key; but we have unlearned j
and clumsy hands, and nothing really comes of our ignorant efforts.
It appears to me that occultism presents a field for occult inquiry. ) j
We ought most anxiously to explore it; and is it not, at least, possible j ]
that occultism may represent the ancient form of the coming modern ]
science? As astrology preceded astronomy, may not some new science |i
succeed occultism ? In its day occultism served its own purpose suffi- i j j
ciently and satisfactorily. Science has made strides since, and through ) |
a modern and more positively scientific method, may not ancient (j
occultism develop in a new and glorious, possibly an exact science—the (i
real science of the soul? Even with the possibility of such a result, is )j
it wise of Spiritualists to assail or ignore occultism ? All Spiritualists (j
who have investigated their phenomena in a truly earnest and truthful 11
spirit agree in stating that they are overburdened with phenomena, all /1
more or less similar; but they are quite unprovided with any positive l!
theories in consequence. j I
Indeed, it appears to me that truthful phenomena increase, but not ) |
with them corresponding knowledge. Facts crowd upon us, and we are (|
all longing to begin even some scientific method, some real solving of | (I
the problems; but time goes by, and we Spiritualists are much as we l)!
were, glorying in our knowledge which raises us so much out of the dust i (j
of the material world; and still the earnest ones amongst us feel beaten i j i
to the dust again under the greatness of our knowledge and the smallness ! ?;
of our comprehension of this vast subject. The key is given to us ; we
try to turn the lock; but the door will not open. Let us try what j)i
occultism will do, and the first gleams of the sunshine through the l(|
parting doors will soon inspirit us all. My belief is, the doors will I i j
open. Such knowledge is not too great for man ; if it were we should j) I
never even have had the reviving mental glimpses we most of us have i(!
had. Had the sages of old been told of the wonderful results of modern Ml
science, would they not have been scared ? The possibility of knowing
something that is at present unknowable may scare us now, but in the
future it may seem simply a matter of fact. To have an exact science
of the soul may seem very astonishing now; but, still, that is no logical
reason why it should astonish us in the future.
Let us chase the demon of materialism from the world through the
advent of a material Spiritualism, if I can express it in such contradictory
terms. I mean to say, let us prove our Spiritualism as other sciences
are proved, not always in a material, but at all events in an intellectual
sense. If Spiritualism is never to be grasped through the reason, it will
always remain much as it is—mysterious, unproved doctrine, to be
believed in by some only, those who have by nature a capacity for
judging and reasoning of events by other faculties than the common ones.
To these people Spiritualism is and must be a truth of the most glorious
and noble a kind. To others, deprived of these divine faculties (I do not
mean commonplace, unintellectual credulity), who must judge of a
thing through the five senses commonly ascribed to man, Spiritualism
will remain an unprovable, and possibly a fraudulent assertion.
It appears to me, therefore, that occultism being the material means
of proving the hypothesis of Spiritualism to be neither fraudulent nor
unprovable, it behoves us Spiritualists to set to work to see if, instead
of scouting the venerable but obsolete science, we may not take it to our
hearts, and develop it into another region of intellectual life for our own
and every one’s sake. Only let us know how to set to work. I. de S.
SPIRITUALISM IN EAST LONDON.
Sir,—Last Sunday I opened a discussion on Spiritualism, on the
Mile End “ waste,” and was agreeably surprised that among the audience
there were a few Spiritualists who had previously been strangers to me,
which indicated that the cause is gaining ground. I was also much
pleased at the attentive manner with which my evidences of spirit com¬
munion were received. I found no opposition ; a few friendly inquiries
were made, which to me was encouraging; in fact, we had a very
pleasant discussion indeed. ^ James Cain.
8, Bloomfield-road, Burdett-road, E., Aug. 26th, 1878,
SPIRIT-HANDS.
(To the Editor of “ The Banner of Light'1)
Sir,—In the summer of 1875 I attended eighteen seances given by the
Bangs Sisters, at their home in Chicago; and on reviewing my
memoranda of those meetings, I think a brief summary of certain facts
there witnessed may interest some, if not all, of your many readers.
Elizabeth and Mary Bangs were young ladies aged about fifteen and
eleven years respectively, and at that time in the fifth year of their
development as physical mediums.
We sat for the materialisation of hands around a common black
walnut dining table on castors, and rendered dark underneath by being
encircled with waterproof cloth, fastened around the table-edge with
small hooks and screw-eyes, and having an aperture about 12 X 18
inches cut in the top, and loosely curtained with two strips of black cotton
velvet. The circle room, an ordinary parlour, was moderately lighted
with gas during the experiments.
At the first four sittings no hands appeared; but various musical
instruments were played upon, and slate-writing occurred—all under the
table.
During the next six sittings beautifully-formed white hands were
thrust upward through the aperture, which, by snapping the thumbs and
fingers, drumming on the table top, grasping objects, touching the hands
of the circle, &c., demonstrated the fact that they obeyed an intelligent
power.
During the next eight sittings different-sized hands and arms of both
whites and Indians were projected (often simultaneously) from the aper¬
ture. The fingers were sometimes graced with rings, the wrists with
bracelets, the arms draped with laces and other ornamental apparel.
The Indians brought beads, feathers, and other adornments usually worn
by the aboriginal tribes. Not more by ornament, colour, shape, and panto¬
mimic movements of the hands than by the peculiarities of the
messages they wrote were the race characteristics and individualities*
of the spirits manifesting plainly apparent. -
An interesting feature was the gradual formation of a spirit-hand.
During the fifth sitting, a slender white cylinder, about three inches in
length and one-eighth inch diameter, resembling a common wax light¬
ing taper, was thrust upward through the aperture. At the sixth
sitting two cylinders were displayed, each the same size as the first.
At the seventh sitting three cylinders were shown, about the diameter of
an ordinary lead pencil, at first perfectly rigid, and seeming to adhere
one to another ; however, they soon became flexible, and on close inspec¬
tion were found to be spirit-fingers, with perfect joints and tiny nails.
On the next evening a complete and finely-formed spirit-hand was
presented, which had developed to maturity before our eyes from the
little spindle of refined matter that our senses had first perceived.
What a beautiful and wonderful process is materialisation. It
demonstrates that knowledge and power have been given to the spirit
in its supermundane existence to exercise such control over the mole¬
cular forces of the universe as to arrange matter in harmonious forms,
and endow the same with intellectual life. Austin A. Burnham.
Chagrin Falls, Ohio.
The human frame is something acted upon by a power outside
of us, as familiar with that organisation as we are ignorant of it.—
Agassiz.
A religion in which faith and reason harmonise is essential to the
best human development. But a philosophy without faith is destructive;
and a theology which declares war between faith and reason with a view
to silence and subjugate the latter, tends to warp conscience, and to
breed confusion, hypocrisy, tyranny, and persecution.— Clark.
108
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 80, 1878.
MORE FROM MR. HOWITT ON SPIRITUALISM.
The following letter from Mr. Howitt to a gentleman on the j
staff of The Nottingham Journal was published in that paper on j
August 10th :—
Dietenhyim, Bruneck, Tyrol, May 27, 1878. j
Dear Sir,—'Yours of the 30th of April, my daughter, Mrs. Alfred j
Watts, of London, has forwarded to me, and I should have more |
immediately replied to it, but it reached me just as we were leaving |
our winter residence, Rome, for this, our summer one. You, of i
course, are aware that Rome is too warm after May for the cooler con- j
stitutions of more northern people; and, therefore, May, or early
June, sees a rapid exodus of its visitors. We leave Rome May 1st, j
and this place to return thither on November 1st.
With respect to your immediate inquiry as to the reality of Spirit¬
ualism as a fact, I should have -thought you could have amply ascer- j
tained that at this time of day. My experience of it has been of about
twenty-five years, and of its reality I have been only more deeply con- j
vinced. I do not know what is exactly the expression of mine to |
which you allude, but undoubtedly we consider Spiritualism as one of j j
our greatest blessings, from the simple fact that it has given us positive j'
proofs of the continuity of existence, taught not only in the Bible, but j (
by all the great authorities of all times and nations. It is one thing I <
to believe this, another to know it from actual and unquestionable i j
evidence. This is a fact which demons as well as angels can demon- ! <
strate, and in Spiritualism you come on plenty of evidence from both | j
sources. . ' I
Mr. Serjeant Cox is peculiar in his theories, professing to attribute |J
all the phenomena to what he calls psychic force. To my knowledge j
the learned serjeant has seen all sorts of manifestations, public and j
private, for, I suppose, at least fifteen years, and many of them have i <
given most striking proofs of mind and reason. A force, therefore, j j
which thinks and reasons may be called what people please, but to me j)
it is a spiritual, conscious, self-acting agent—i.e,, a spirit. The theory | (
of Serjeant Cox and the Psychologists is pretty much on a par with j j
that of people who think themselves Atheists, but who account for j)
this universe with all its marvellous phenomena by the agency of Law, j J
which evidently possesses mind, intellect, invention, power, and all i j
the sentiments which render the greatest men illustrious, and that in i)
an infinite and eternal degree—in a fullness which can and does | j
supply all those qualities and powers to whole races and generations i j
of men, without the slightest diminution in itself. Atheists, or those j)
who imagine themselves such, may call this Law, but that is but a j (
poor misnomer for a Law- Giver. It is, in fact, the real definition !
of a Deity, beyond all human conception, wise, glorious, and good. I
Spiritualism has, unfortunately, been supposed to be the true source | j
of religious doctrine ; and from this mistake has arisen all the follies |
and extravagances which now disgrace it. From this grand error it has j (
become the fountain of more follies, extravagances, and superstitions i (
than even Popery. People think that the dictation of an opinion ] j
by a spirit is a guarantee for its truth; but no fact in Spirit- i (
ualism is more patent than that shoals of spirits, of all grades and j j
conditions, are about us, and dictate those opinions which they held j)
on earth.
It is perfectly plain that you must know who the dictating spirit is j
before you can know the real value of his inspiration ; yet every i)
person of any experience knows that nothing is' so difficult as the i
identification of communicating spirits. But people believing spirits, j j
merely because they are spirits, have come to believe in Reincarnation, j)
Freeloveism, Buddhism, Parseeism, and a dozen other follies. If you i
want to see the chaos and clash of such retrogradisms, you have only i j
to read a few numbers of The Spiritualist, a London organ of the i
Bloomsbury set, calling itself “ The British National Association of | ]
Spiritualists.” j j
You will say then—Where is the value of Spiritualism, and what j \
is the advantage of it ? I answer—Simply from its giving abundant j (
and unquestionable proofs of man’s immortality. I may transcribe !
what I wrote to another gentleman but yesterday. “ Spiritualism is ! I
a great truth, independent of all creeds. It is a, fact demonstrated by i)
spiritual means, and which in return demonstrates the other great fact j j
of the continuity of spirit life. As a great and eternal truth it is self- | (
existent, and utterly independent. As a primal and master truth it I)
is naturally auspicious to religious truth, but it is not necessarily the j | j
teacher of any other truth than that of the immortality of man. The
teaching of creeds and dogmas is not its specific business—that is the
province of theology. As a truth, it is favourable to all truth ; and
as we believe, on both historic and moral grounds, that Christianity
is also based on substantial truth, we naturally expect that it will
nourish and strengthen the Christian faith: but it imposes doctrine
on no man.”
It would be long to tell you all the manifestations of spirit pre- ]
sence, intelligence, and power which I have witnessed in private j
circles, where certainly there were no jugglers ; suffice it to say that j
they have been such as no mortal agencies could have produced. I j
have never witnessed those materialised spirits which appear now so
frequently in London seances in private families—they have occurred j
since I left London ; but 1 have seen spirit hands, felt them and re- i
ceived articles from them. I have seen them throw down Indian j
idols from a cheffonier, and roll them about the floor, and unscrew
them (the Indian screws turning the reverse way to ours). I have
attended spirit concerts at the house of a gentleman who, at that time, I
had no acquaintances in the spiritual circles, and heard most excel- i
lent and distinct singing of well-known English songs, the voices being
near the ceiling. I have heard these spirits play on the piano, and ]
that repeatedly. We have had the news of the drowning of one of
our sons in New Zealand brought by spirit agency, with all the i
I i details, when such a fact was most unexpected and improbable ;
l ! besides a vast number of things equally surprising.
What our experiences have been are the experiences of tens of
i j thousands of people, of the most sound intellects and sober senses,
j Yet you will see by what I have said that the inquiry must be
| entered upon with the same caution that any one would deal with
i those beneficious but active agents, fire, water, darkness, or lightning.
I No one should believe a spirit merely because it is a spirit, or take
| for granted what cannot be otherwise proved to be true. From neglect
! of this rule come all the vices and errors of Spiritualists.
As a work which may give you information on the facts and
literature of Spiritualism, there is a small but comprehensive one,
j called Planchette, or the Despair of Science, by Epes Sargent. In
this you will see fairly related the concise history of the movement,
j and a fair statement of the arguments of both friends and opponents.
I think it costs only six shillings, and may be got at Burns’s,
i 15, Southampton-row, Holborn; where, also, you might get my
History of the Supernatural in all Ages and Nations, two volumes, in
| which you will see that Spiritualism is as old and as diffused as our
| race, and infinitely surpasses all other beliefs in the number of its
adherents; for all Eastern nations are, and ever have been, Spiritualists.
| It was believed in and known by all the great minds of all civilised
nations, from the most ancient era down to our own.
I don’t know what is the status of Spiritualism now in Nottingham,
but I believe some time ago there were some rather wild professors
of it.
Many Spiritualists will have it that Spiritualism is a new religion.
It is what I tell you, simply a great natural fact. We do not want
any new religion. We have already one which bears all the marks of
a Divine origin, and contains everything that is best adapted to our
needs—most fitted for our guidance, and most fraught with consolation
in our sorrows and with strength in our trials. God gives bounteously,
but He does not attempt to “gild the refined gold, or add fresh
fragrance to the violet.” William Howitt.
The Doctrine of Eternal Punishment.—A Wesleyan minister, the
Rev. William Impey, has just resigned his office as general superin¬
tendent of the Wesleyan missions in South Africa. Some time ago the
rev. gentleman wrote to the mission secretaries in London, stating that
he could no longer enforce on his brethren, or on the Kaffir converts,
the “ plain grammatical sense H of the words in the Methodist standards
which require it to be taught that “hell is a dark, bottomless pit, full of
fire and brimstone, in which the wicked will be punished for ever and
ever, by having their bodies tormented with fire and their souls by a
sense of the wrath of God.” At the request of the secretaries he came
to London, and, as a result of his.conference with them, he resigned the
position of Wesleyan minister which he has held for forty years.—
The Globe, Aug. 26th.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
We have received some resolutions from “ The First Society of Spiritualists
of Chicago,” passed by them about some local matters in dispute, but see
no good end to be attainable by ventilating such unpleasant matters of
contention here. The more Spiritualists avoid contention, and settle
down to observation, experiment, and a non-aggressive line of life, the
better.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A. ;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“ Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess \Yurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Am, SO, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon, Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committoo consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, E.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Ei pes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer," s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . • . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . ..76
The Seer. „ III. „ . • .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . • .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . • .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . . .76
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . ..76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . '.60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . • .20
Death and the After-Life . . . • • .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . • .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . ... 7 6
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . • .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . • . .86
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers • . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology. . . . 3 0
Morning Lectures . . . . . ..76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieitdalist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . is 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . t 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A.Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D.,'LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description oj- Manifestation
recently produced hy Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free le. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions oe the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination has been to identify his opimons with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
■ “ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post’ Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE QF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. It, Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—^Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—^Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes —■ Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—^Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kisliugbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—^Phenomena in America—^Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumslnp of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—^Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet-Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XHI.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter xVl ^Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—^Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XvIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, ,£110s.
London; W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Hi
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psych
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B, Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation ol
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hoops, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writin ?
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist,
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—^Evidence
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place In public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given throug'
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O 1 Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumshippf
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Riehmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon."
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislinghury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe,
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
I mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will he
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequent irreligious age
THE SPIRITUALIST,
i?
Aug. 30, 1878.
A NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE¬
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAE', MEANS
T ORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which ail their happiness and power as a/State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a larg,e Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
EFO’S FRUIT SALT; The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING-,, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
variousforms ofindlgestion, useENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). Tt is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness,’ Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples, on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth.centoy
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENG’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively,'unknown
* some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. Tlie great merit wliich is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There' is little doubt but- that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the weil-beinj? of communities at large; but we
will, in all. probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome .to (any
specific wliich may prove a means of preserving or. restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it' is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has .been: found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America,has a largely
increasing sale. It is better, by: far than “ nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
, 1877.
WHAT EYERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
J?NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
-S ‘‘Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night arid
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
ENO’S‘ FRUIT SALT.— A Lady writes : —
I “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.” ■
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A’
GENEKAX-LAXATIVE AND TONIC <
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OP INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
TheFruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is, its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been .truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or, foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, ‘ and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise,     
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Foisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth,'a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its, great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease :—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
orless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
out very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my Sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous," annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please.—I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 80,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.”, j Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. , TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit, Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Frice 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent ror Pam—PH armacie de beral. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIN.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. .The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan,/to Ali ■ Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
1 —13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Motherin-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung. —17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20, A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2—The Wohblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24; The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Posf, which strongly recommends the book in a
ireview nearly a'column long, saysComic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not toe stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appeararice will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“So one can help laughing
■ at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
.“Those who,can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses, and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Mdcebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Oannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); A.M. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal (tf Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and 'others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays, will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con-:
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.” ,
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whosejiame is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific.literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
. : “ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book.. .‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself... . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.” . ,
. From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”.;
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
- “ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The1 Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter' poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli- .
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts :
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
natjffe, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit. ... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
nevp vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ liris in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
c authiVb mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
’ lively) imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared-in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created: such a furore at the time.” \_N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It' contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.’’
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price Ss., or 5s. 8d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and; at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—^Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted-Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retro vision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will bythe Subjects—Ool. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S nritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of I’nrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom-
ena-r-Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals —, Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It. . ~
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Cdyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam)
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and. Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future..
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Scienc
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Studenri-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—^Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments —Cases —Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of th
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep-^Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
.—Gases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Gase of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct .Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Oases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cleyrg-
man.witb Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Oases.
CHAPTER XV ’.—Trance —Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes-.
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.,
London: W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbofn Printing Works, Fullwood’u Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-abov.e'-Bar .and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen, Avq
Maria-lane, London, E.C,
