Registered as A Newspaper.
ODItost Ifcfosppr wmtet^b toit| in feat §ritain.
No. 395.—(Yol. XYI.—No. 12.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST, ~~
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. BLAVA.TSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, QIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to tc The Proprietors of 1 The Theosophist' ” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism,
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with having written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
j, 33, Museum-street, London, W-
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 19, 1880.
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth.
Red Edges.
MR
0. E. WILLIAMS,
A CLEKGYMAN ON SPIKITTJALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from-12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Stemway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). Erom the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Teubnee and Co., London.
Jtjst Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
6, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can he built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored simply by
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.
Any form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (comer of Moscow-road and
Hereford-road), Bayswater, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N-W-
"VTOTICE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
JLN new bond street, London, w. mrs.
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily ;
and eight to ten. Evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
.Crown 8vo., pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its hearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . .His eclecticism has led him to recognize philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mall
Gazette.
■jl/TRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
jLYJL and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Days
and hours of business—Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
4, Keppell-street, Russell-square, W.C.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
v_y DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
Stone-road, Earls-court, S.W.
London : Trubneb and Co., Ludgate Hill.
32 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 3d.
RATIONALE OF SPIRITUALISM.
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia. Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facta first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8b. 6d.
ost free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
T UNAGY LAW REFORM
JLi ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 pm. Saturdays 1 to 2
Dessert services cheap:—
J. M. DALE desires to call attention to the
above. A number of Services he is selling at un¬
precedentedly low prices during the present month.
50, Crawford Street, Bryanston Square West, London.
rPHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
OR THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting f orth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.LG.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena, It is an
excellent littie book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d
post free 6Jd. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
I Office, 33. Museum-street, London, W.C'
% tl % uf mb uf
No. 395.—YOLUME SIXTEEN; NUMBER TWELVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 1 9 th, 18 8 0.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Pbioe Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United H
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union. i S
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON, I?
Museum*street, London. K
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Ni¬
cholas of Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
of Caithness
The Baboness Yon Yay, Coun¬
tess Wiirmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof,
St. Petersburg
Sib Charles Ishah, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Bubton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Sebjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Caldeb, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Maxdougall Gbegoby
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John James
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Cbowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speeb, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rey. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
J. T. Mabkley, Esq.
John E. Pubdon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Marryat
Madame Isabel de Steiger
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holm-
fbld (Holstein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adelberth de Bourbon
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Varley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Friese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.,
M.D., Melbourne
J. 0. Luxmoobe, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 83, Museum-street, London; 6, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionole, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51. East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S. ; Beligio-Philosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 819, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 825, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
ETERNAL PUNISHMENT.
A good old-fashioned sermon, such as formed
the strong meat of the past generation, a dis¬
course which could never he mistaken as milk
for babes, an authoritative utterance in which
the flames of hell are pictured as a terror to
evil-doers, is a rarity now-a-days, and to
listeners uninfluenced by any belief therein, is
as interesting as the philosophical contempla¬
tion of the thumbscrews, racks, and instru¬
ments of torture of those good old times whose
supposed attractions are so enhanced by poetry
and by distance. What effect such sermons
may have upon the minds of children, upon
the minds of enthusiastic women, who delight
to 11 sit underv popular preachers, and upon
other easily, impressed persons, is another
question. In the ship of modern orthodoxy
eternal punishment is the doctrine which has
next to be thrown overboard to temporarily
save the rest of the cargo, wherefore, for a long
time past the more intelligent divines, such as
Canon Farrar, have in their sermons been
reducing the flames of the future to a vanish¬
ing point, or until the hereafter of the wicked
is pictured as not much more unpleasant than
a game at snapdragons at Christmastide. Tfo
Christian World newspaper has for years care¬
fully given space to every argument that the
doctrine of eternal punishment is a misinterpre¬
tation of Scripture, and Spiritualists have never
hesitated to denounce the alleged lurid future
of the u lost ” as a libel upon the Almighty.
The sight of a live dodo in the year 1880
cannot be more refreshing to a student than is
the hearing of a thorough-going old-fashioned
sermon, in which the flames of the infernal
regions have lost none of their reality or their
pristine vigour. Such a discourse was delivered
last Sunday in a Catholic Church, in which,
after an sesthetical and pleasing service, the
officiating priest explained to the listeners the
position of those of them who desired to appear
before the Holy Tribunal of Penance. He
told them that for a sin of thought, Lucifer
and other bright angels had been condemned
by a just and good God to eternal flames for
ever, and that all his hearers would share the
134
THE SPIRITUALIST.
same fate, who had committed without subse¬
quent repentance a single wicked deed or
thought. Nay, if they had ever had a bad
thought, which they could not remember when
they tried, they were for that forgotten thought
doomed to the eternal flames of Hell. More¬
over, he informed them that the priest's abso¬
lution was of no avail, unless the repentance
had been sincere, and even then absolution was
of no use if real repentance had been merely
brought about by the sufferings the sin had
caused to others ; the repentance must be
founded upon regret at the position in which
the sin had placed the individual in relation
to the verities of the spirit world, and not upon
regret at the sufferings of earthly life.
Beneath the car of Juggernaut the self-con¬
demned sinner is crushed, and his agonies are
over in a few minutes ; but the God held up
for respect in sermons like the above, condemns
his victims to endless fire for ever, for sins for
which a police magistrate would fine a man
five shillings, or for which a Dymchurch jury
would decide, u we find him not guilty, and
warn him not to do so any more.”
The Catholic faith has come down to us
through the ages as a grand old religion, as
almost the only exponent of the aspirations and
ideals of civilised man before the somewhat re¬
cent date when Henry VIII. altered the religion
of Great Britain, and proceeded to murder his
wives. However, as he is described in
Chichester Cathedral, and treated in authorised
Church of England prayers at Oxford Univer¬
sity as an estimable and righteous monarch,
his sanctified nature need not be farther dwelt
upon here. The Catholic Church not only has
great historical associations, but here and there
has points of affinity with Spiritualism, for it
has never denied the continuous intervention
of spirits with the affairs of men, nor the
possibility of communication with the unseen
world. It has also brought down from ancient
times the custom of praying for the dead, and
Spiritualists everywhere know that this custom
has had some foundation in truth, because
those spirits who chance to be in an unhappy
state, almost invariably ask to be prayed for
when they communicate through mediums,
often to the surprise of the sensitive who
receives the message, and who had never
previously supposed that praying for the de¬
parted was of any efficacy. But, if the doctrine
of eternal punishment as set forth last Sun¬
day at Folkestone, is the hard and fast doctrine
of the Catholic Church, it is an irrefragable
barrier between Spiritualism and Catholicism,
March 19, 1880.
although a refreshing phenomenon to meet
(| now-a-days, for it is like a lump of honest
£ quartz in front of the steam roller of modern
j>j progress; it is a fragment of an adamantine
<| rock of the past, which will not yield, so will
d be crushed with more than papal infallibility.
>1 The various Protestant sects exhibit less
Si sturdiness ; they are throwing the doctrine of
cl eternal punishment overboard, and pretending
<j that it was all an accident that it ever found a
d place in their ship; but in this matter the
<j Catholic Church sticks to its colours as firmly
<| as it did in past ages, when it practically
d imitated its ideal Deity, by roasting alive Jews
M and Heretics as a sacrifice well-pleasing to
<j a merciful God.
While the teacher of the young and of the
)| timid was last Sunday setting forth that a
)j good God had invented a hell of flame, and
sj an eternal life in a bottomless lime-kiln, he
<| might have brought the subject more directly
>! home to them, by presenting the following com-
((: ments upon an Auto-da-fe at Seville, at which
<| Torquemada, one of the lights of the Catholic
>| Church, took part with some of his hooded
d familiars in roasting some heretics alive in
the “ wonderful ” city * of Seville :—
“ Yes ! thou art * Wonderful ! *—but oh,
’Tis sad to think, ’mid scones so bright
As thine, fair Seville, sounds of woe,
And shrieks of pain and wild affright,
And soul-wrung groans of deep despair,
And blood, and death should mingle there !
** Yes 1 thou art * Wonderful ! ’—the flames
That on thy towers reflected shine,
While earth’s proud Lords and high- born Dames,
Descendants of a mighty line,
With cold unalter’d looks are by
(i To gaze, with an unpitying eye,
On wretches in their agony.
“ All speak thee 1 Wonderful ’—the phrase
Befits thee well—the fearful blaze
Of yon piled faggots’ lurid light,
Where writhing victims mock the sight,—
The scorch’d limb shrivelling in its chains,—
The hot blood parch’d in living veins,—
The crackling nerve—the fearful knell
Wrung out by that remorseless bell,—
(| ■ Those shouts from human fiends that swell,—
That witliering scream,—that frantic yell,—
All, Seville,—all too truly tell
Thou art a ‘ Marvel ’— and a Hell!
Ood!—that the worm whom thou hast made
Should thus his brother worm invade!
Count deeds like these good service done,
And deem THINE eye looks smiling on!! ”
Sad is the fact that in this Nineteenth
j Century, teachers are still to be found who
tell their flocks that a God of Love could devise
* “ Quien no ha visto Sevilla,
No ha visto Maravilla.”
Old Spanish Proverb.
March 19, 1880,
THE S PI RITUALIST.
135
for his enemies, and perpetuate to all eternity,
such fiery torments as Torquemada inflicted
upon the innocent at Seville. Horrible doc¬
trines such as that of eternal punishment have
a tendency to blight or sadden the lives of
■weak-minded hut sensitive people, and to in¬
duce those forms of religious mania which are
so well known to the medical practitioners who
have the care of lunatics.
THE APPARITIONS AT KNOCK.
DETAILED DESCRIPTIONS.
These descriptions are quoted from The
Dublin Weekly News, a journal which week
by week is publishing most interesting in¬
formation about the Knock apparitions and
cures, from its correspondent on the spot.
THE VIRGIN MARY, ST. JOSEPH AND ST. JOHN, SEEN BY
ABOUT TWELVE WITNESSES AT ONCE.
I shall begin with the narrative of the
young man Dominick Byrne. He acts as
assistant to Archdeacon Cavanagh. He is a
tall, well-knit young fellow, erect and lively,
with a small and shapely head, an aquiline
nose, a keen dark eye, and clear-cut handsome
features. The expression of his countenance
is open and resolute. He speaks with rapidity,
and answers a question almost the very
moment it is asked. He was clothed, when I
saw him, in grey frieze, and wore high leather
leggings. Dominick lives with his family—
composed of mother, brothers and sisters—in a
thatched cottage, looking like an ordinary
small farmhouse, which stands about a couple
of fields from the high road, close by the
church, and is approached by a pathway running
outside the school-house wall, at the southern
extremity of the church enclosure. I may
add that I estimate Dominick Byrne’s age at
two or three-and-twenty. The scene of my
interview with him was inside an empty booth
in the field beyond the school-house wall.
It is stated, I said to him, that you saw the
apparition of the 21st of August. Is that
true ?—It is.
How was your attention drawn to it?—I
was at home in my own house. My sister
Mary left the house to go and lock up the
chapel.
Did she go out alone ?—Ho, Mary M’Laugh-
lin, the priest’s housekeeper, was with her.
Well, she wasn’t gone many minutes when
she came running back into the house to
me, and she said, “ Come out now, if you
si want to see the Blessed Virgin!” ‘‘Yeh,
c| where would I see the Blessed Virgin ? ”
$ said I. u Come out, come out,” she said
sj again, and I got up and ran out after her.
This happened in the evening ?—Yes.
At what time of the evening ?—It was
>1 going for eight o’clock.
11 Was there clear daylight then?”—There
l\ was—bright day. I followed my sister until
I got within a couple of hundred yards of the
)j chapel. Then I saw the three figures outside
sj the gable, but I walked on to within four or
<1 five feet of them, and when I got as near as
?| that, then they seemed to be up against the
;| wall.
What was the height of the figures ?—They
(j were about life-size.
Did they appear to touch the ground ?—
Sj Ho; they came down within about a foot of it.
Did the figures look flat, like pictures, or
<| round and full, like statues ?—They looked
a like statues, round and full.
How I wish you to describe them for me.—
Sj The Blessed Virgin was in the middle. Her
(j face was turned out to us. Her eyes were
?j lifted up, in the manner of praying. Her
Sj hands were this way. [The speaker placed
sj his hands so that the tips of the fingers were
<j about on a level with the shoulders, and the
Sj palms of the hands were turned outward],
Sj St. Joseph on her right hand side, and turned
Sj towards her. His hands were joined together,
sj and he was stooping. His hair and beard
Sj looked gray. On the left hand side was St.
Sj John. He was dressed in a long robe, and
sj had on a mitre. He was turned partly out,
sj and partly away from the Blessed Virgin,
sj facing an altar farther on to the left hand side
Sj of the gable. On his left hand he was hold-
sj ing a large book open. His right arm was
sj lifted up in the form of blessing, and the
S! fingers of the hand were this way. [The wit-
Sj ness illustrated his evidence by holding up
sj his own hand, with the fore and middle
sj fingers stretched out, and the third and small
SI fingers bent double, with the thumb placed
Sj against the joints of them next the tips.] The
>j appearance before him was of a plain marble
h altar, with a lamb upon the altar, and a cross
>j upon the shoulder of the lamb.
Were the figures, and all, of one colour ?—
Yes.
What colour was that?—The colour of a
>j bright whitish light.
Did the figures, or any part of them, or of
!! the whole appearance, ever shake or waver
\\ while you were looking at them ?—Ho.
136
Mabch 19, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Did the whole apparition seem to change
position at all?—hTo, it did not.
Did yon notice any flickering motion ?—No.
How long did you stay about the gable ?—
About two hours.
Did the apparition go through any change
in that time ?—No ; it remained exactly the
same.
How many persons saw it, to your know¬
ledge ?—About twelve or fourteen.
Tell me the names of some of them. — My
mother, Mrs. Byrne, my sisters, Mary and
Maggie, a girl named Catherine Murray, two
boys, John Curry and Pat Hill, myself and
another Dominick Byrne, and Miss McLaugh¬
lin, Pather Cavanagh;s housekeeper.
Did you see anyone touch the figures ?—
No, not one.
At what time did you come away ?—About
half-past nine, we all went away together to
see a woman in the village that was thought
to be at the point of death. When we went
back, in about ten minutes, to the gable of the
chapel, all was dark.
And you never saw the figures, or any of
them, again?—No.
This closes the evidence of Dominick Byrne
respecting the appearance of the 21st of
August. His manner was free from anything
like doubt or hesitation. He gave his answers
readily and plainly ....
THE SCENE IN THE CHURCH.
Proceeding from Miss Anderson’s to the
house of the parish priest, I went into the
church on my way. Night was closing round
at the time. Sheets of rain were pouring
down from the sky all densely piled with
massive clouds. Pierce gusts of wind ren¬
dered it hard to keep one’s footing, and all but
impossible to move in any direction. There
was nobody visible on the road or about the
village. I expected to find the church almost
deserted. But the church of Knock is never
deserted now. In any sort of weather, at any
hour of the day or night, there are worship¬
pers to be seen in that humble temple. I
found a row of silent figures along the entire
length of the sanctuary; one solitary suppliant
here and there in a dim corner, scarcely visible
by the fading light of day, and groups before
the pictures of the saints. The intense still¬
ness was only broken, now and then, by a
deep ejaculation.. Passing out by the doorway
opposite the altar, I beat my way against the
storm to the southern gable, my purpose
being to see if any crutches or sticks had been
left since my previous visit. I found the re-
M ceptacle quite filled with sticks and crutches ;
v of the latter, as well as I could make out,
a there were a dozen or so ; of the former there
cannot have been less than about sixty. Stand-
Si ing upright in the midst of the mass of tangled
<| wood I saw a fashionable umbrella of green
silk, now somewhat stained by exposure to
>| rough weather. This, I learned, had been
Sj left by Miss Margaret O’Neill, of Dublin, who
<| had suffered for years from hip disease, which
(1 caused a considerable shortness of one leg,
)! obliging her to make use of the umbrella I
>| saw to assist her in the act of walking. She
sj came to Knock with her mother on the 6th of
(j the present month, stayed up all night pray-
>| ing in the church, and was able to walk next
s| day without the help of the umbrella, which
sj she left behind in token of her recovery.
THE TESTIMONY OF ARCHDEACON CAVANAGH.
I found Archdeacon Cavanagh in his study,
>j seated at a large and massive table, on which
ii there were so many letters awaiting attention
j that I concluded the correspondence of the
| pastor of Knock must be more extensive at
| present than that of a prime minister or an
j editor of a popular paper.
After a little conversation, I remarked to
$j the Archdeacon that I had heard, in the village,
Sj of other wonderful appearances, recently wit-
si nessed, both at the gable and inside the
?j church.
Yes, he said, last night (Thursday, the 12th
Sj inst.), about half-past nine o’clock, I, and
si several others, saw a most brilliant star out-
?! side the gable. It lit up the whole place.
)j It came and struck against the spot where the
Sj apparition of the Blessed Yirgin was seen,
sj and flashed with the quickness of lightning.
?j I have.frequently, of late, about eight or nine
;j at night, seen a golden light floating about
sj the gable, with stars and brilliant lights flash-
si ing through it, but I never saw anything so
?j dazzling as that one star last night.
And also inside the church have appearances
Sj been seen ?—They have. I have seen them
| myself; both last night and the night before
?! I saw stars above the altar, on both sides of
)j the little stained glass window representing
SI the crucifixion of our Lord. Three of them
s j were very plainly visible, one, large, on the
?j right hand side of the window, and two, of a
sj smaller size, on the left. I thought I also saw
| a number of small stars shining much more
si faintly than those three principal ones, scat-
?j tered about the space on either side of the
)| window.
How was the church lighted at the time
March 19, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
137
when you saw the stars ?—The altar lamp was U
lighting, and also a small lamp before the j;
Blessed Virgin’s altar, and there were a few |S
candles lighting through the church. |<
How many others saw the stars ?—All the l<
people in the church.
HEARING THE AFFLICTED. 0
Our conversation went on for a considerable i<
time, hut at present I shall confine myself to |?
recording what occurred with reference to the \)
case of Miss O’Neill. I mentioned that I had |s
seen a silk umbrella outside the gable, and
had heard how it belonged to a young lady
from Dublin lately cured of hip disease after
spending a night at prayer in the church.
That is the truth, the Archdeacon answered.
She was cured on her first visit. Bead this
letter from her mother, a most pious and ex- \)
emplary woman. He handed me the letter, K
which, by permission, I lay before your K
readers:
Dublin, February 8th, 1880.
Very Rev. Archdeacon,—It is with no ordinary j)
amount of pleasure I write to express the happiness it K
affords me to say my daughter is still improving every
hour since we had the great blessing of visiting Knock, i?
We are both wishing for the time to come to renew our Is
visit to that holy place. There is not a shadow of doubt j >
but Knock is specially blessed, for whilst I was there j <
I felt intensely the influence of religion, Grod be praised i >
for ever ! Now at your own convenience I would like j)
you to let me know what you would like for the large K
altar, or if you have a good harmonium, or some useful jS
present for the church, as I wish to make an offering j)
to God for His greater glory and honour. Margaret K
will write to you in a few days herself, as I think it is j)
better to wait for a little while, and, please God, she jc
will be perfectly restored with God’s help. If it would K
not be too much I would ask you to say one Hail Mary P
for me before the place where the Blessed Virgin’s K
statue appeared. I will not trespass on your time with i;
a longer letter, but will conclude, with the help of God I}
soon to be able to visit Knock again. I enclose you I \
the names of people that I had the happiness of seeing j)
miraculously cured. I have the honour to remain K
yours most respectfully,—Mary Joseph O’Neill.
I do not envy the person who can read this js
affecting letter without a thrill of responsive K
feeling, and a reflection that there is nothing 1?
in this world more contemptible or more !>
pitiful than the mockery of the stolid un- js
believer. K
Before taking my leave of the pastor, I j?
asked him : Have you read the detailed ac- j>
counts, relating to the apparitions, which have S
been given in the Nation and Weekly News ?— i<
I have read them, he replied, with much <
satisfaction, for I have found them sub- ij
stantially correct.
He then confided to me a diary, which he K
had written throughout with his own hand, |S
containing brief notes of all the miraculous Ij
cures at Knock from the date of the appear¬
ance of the first apparition down to the date
on which he handed me the record. This
document, emanating from the parish priest
himself, is one of extraordinary authority, and
of an interest not to be surpassed, and permis¬
sion is given to me to draw upon it in my
further letters on the subject.
THE ECCLESIASTICAL COMMITTEE OF INVESTIGATION.
I am also enabled to furnish you to day with
a full and perfect copy of the text of the depo¬
sitions made before the tribunal of clergymen
appointed by his Grace the Archbishop of Tuam,
>| as the prelate having episcopal jurisdiction
Sj over Knock, to investigate the facts regarding
<| the apparition of last August. The commis¬
sioners were Archdeacon Cavanagh; Canon
Waldron, parish priest of Ballyhaunis; and
Canon Burke, parish priest of Claremorris.
By request of the archdeacon the following
clergymen also attended and assisted the com¬
mission in its proceedings : Bev. James Cor¬
bett, C.C., Claremorris: Bev. Michael O’Don-
oghue, C.C., Ballyhaunis; Bev. Michael Heany,
C.C., Aughamore; Bev. Michael Curran, C.C.,
Claremorris : Bev. James Killeen, C.C., Cross-
boyne: and Bev. Father M’Alpine, C.C., Bal-
lindine. The commission sat, for one day only,
in the sacristy of the church of Knock, and
personally examined every witness. Arch¬
deacon Cavanagh then reported to the Arch¬
bishop that his decree had been duly executed.
With his grace now rests the question whether
he shall make a report to the Holy See.
AN INCIDENT.
Unarmed and unattended walks the Czar,
Through Moscow’s busy street one winter’s day.
The crowd uncover as his face they see,—
it God greet the Czar! ” they say.
Along his path there moved a funeral,
Grey spectacle of poverty and woe.
A wretched sledge, dragged by one weary man,
Slowly across the snow.
And on the sledge, blown by the winter wind,
Lay a poor coffin, very rude and bare.
And he who drew it bent before his load,
With dull and sullen air.
The Emperor stopped and beckoned to the man ;
“ Who is’t thou bearest to the grave ? ” he said.
“ Only a soldier, Sire! ” the short reply.
“ Only a soldier, dead.”
u Only a soldier! ” musing, said the Czar;
11 Only a Russian, who was poor and brave.
Move on. I follow. Such an one goes not
Unhonoured to his grave.”
138
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 19. 1880.
He bent his head, and silent raised his cap;
The Czar of all the Russias, pacing slow,
Polio wing the coffin, as again it went,
Slowly across the snow.
The passers in the street, all wondering,
Looked on that sight, then^followed silently :
Peasant and prince, and artisan and clerk,
All in one company.
Still, as they went, the crowd grow ever more,
Till thousands stood around the friendless grave,
Led by that princely heart, who, royal, true,
Honoured the poor and brave.
Agnes Macdonell, in The Spectator.
March 2nd, 1880.
Note.—This incident is narrated by a lady who was living in
Moscow when it took place.
 ^ 
EXPERIENCES OP ANAESTHETICS.
BY C. C. MASSEY.
Some time ago yon published a very in¬
teresting communication on this subject from
Dr. Wyld. If medical men were as a rule
psychologists, they would be doubtless able
to collect very valuable evidence of the ex¬
periences of their patients while under the
influence of anaesthetics, proving in a fair
proportion of cases that separate psychic ex¬
istence, disengaged from bodily conditions,
which is affirmed by Spiritualists. The fol¬
lowing case, communicated to me by a friend
from his own experience, does not prove this,
but is sufficiently remarkable to be worth
the attention of psychologists.
Two years ago, the gentleman referred to,
had an operation performed for the removal
of a tumour in the face. He was put under
ether, complete insensibility being for a time
induced. He revived, however, during the
progress of the- operation, and at once, as he
distinctly i emembers, and as was confirmed by
the surgeons present, joined in the conver¬
sation which had been passing between the
latter ; chloroform was then administered, and
the operation was completed. The wound
was sewn up after his restoration to conscious¬
ness, complete local insensibility remaining,
however, during this process, a fact worth
noting. Recollecting then that he had spoken,
and what he had said in the interval between
his revival from the effects of the ether, and
his being put under chloroform, he asked the
doctors “ if ho had been talking nonsense,” as
he had no knowledge whatever of their con¬
versation. They replied that he had joined in
this with perfect relevance, as if he had heard
all that had been said.
Although not affording the direct proof of
psychic disengagement which some of Dr.
Wyld’s cases, if I remember rightly, gave,
the above seems to me to receive its most
probable explanation on this hypothesis. It
seems impossible to suppose that the material
brain to which the nerves of touch could
transmit no message, was nevertheless affected
by the auditory nerve, (the case not being one
of mere local paralysis.) On the other hand,
the psychic body, artificially separated, while
not able to receive impressions through the
external body, may nevertheless possess an
organism which can be reached through the
medium of the air, whose vibrations may con¬
vey to it sound. And the impulse to speak
may have carried it back to the brain, and
hence the awaking, the words being then
spoken without the least consciousness or
memory of what provoked them.
There must surely be among your readers
gentlemen of the medical profession, who are
able to supplement Dr. Wyld’s researches in
this direction; and contributions from their
experience might throw further light on the
subject, especially in its relation to the mes¬
meric and trance conditions.
Temple, March 15th.
fcmpuketw*.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; copies
should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.~\
THE AUSTRALIAN TRANCE MEDIUM.
Sir,—On Thursday evening, March 11th, over forty
of the friends of Mr. Thomas Walker held a tea meet¬
ing at Blackburn, for the purpose of bidding Mr.
Walker farewell, previously to his departure to South
Africa. After tea Mr. Atkinson was unanimously
voted into the Chair, and in a very feeling manner he
expressed the sympathy of the meeting at the departure
of Mr. Walker. Several other speakers followed, who
all told of the geniality and kindness of Mr. Walker,
and his earnestness in spreading the cause of Spirit¬
ualism ^ and they spoke of the sorrow of all who knew
him, that he should, so early after his return home be
called to labour in a distant part of the world.
During the evening it was announced that an en¬
larged photograph of Mr. Walker would, have been
presented to him, had there been sufficient time to get
it up. However, in the course of two or three weeks
the portrait would be ready and then be presented to
his mother.
At the close of the evening Mr. Walker uttered a
few words, expressing his sorrow at leaving so many
who had in such a short time become very warm and
dear friends to him ; he hoped after his engagements
in Africa were ended he should meet them all again,
and again labour among them, helping to spread the
glorious truths of spirit communion.
R. WoLSTENHOLME.
March 19, 1880.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
139
DISEASES HEALED BY SPIRIT POWER AT
KNOCK.
ARCHDEACON CAVANAGh’s DIARY,
Last week we drew a parallel between the cures of
diseases by spirit power effected by Dr. Newton, the
medium, outside the pale of the Catholic Oharch, and
cures effected at the beneficently haunted Church at
Knock, and have since been informed that Archdeacon
Cavanagh has there adopted much the same method in
relation to the facts, which we did in relation to Dr.
Newton’s cures when he was in London. The only
difference is that the Archdeacon has recorded all cures
indiscriminately, but that we sifted away many at the
outset and put them out of court, having had experience
as to the antipathy of the public to a real, practical
spirit world, in which men will be responsible for
their good or bad acts judged in relation to their own
consciences, irrespective of their theological opinions.
So when a man said he had been cured of a headache,
we did not record it, because but his word or imagina¬
tion could be advanced in support of the statement;
the actual plan was to select chiefly the cures of diseases
to the reality of which the friends and neighbours of
the relieved sufferers could also bear witness. If the
cures at Knock continue to be so numerous, Archdeacon
Cavanagh will find it convenient to divide his record
into two sections, on the principle just stated, and to
give only the better authenticated cases for publica¬
tion. The correspondent of The Dublin Weekly Neivs
makes the following statements about the diary of the
parish priest at Knock
He began the record on the 31st October, 1879.
The date of the earlist apparition was the 21st August.
A cure of deafness and pain in the ear was reported
twelve days later, and several others in the course of
the subsequent weeks, but Archdeacon Cavanagh took
no steps towards collecting and sifting the statements
circulating amongst the people, until after the Arch¬
bishop of Tuam had appointed a commission to take
evidence respecting the apparition, and after the com¬
mission had met, examined the several witnesses, and
forwarded its report to the Archbishop. By this time
the accounts of cures were numerous, indeed almost
continual; the body of testimony increased from day
to day; and the Archdeacon deemed it his duty, now
that the Church, through his Grace of Tuam, had
taken cognizance of the matter, to set down the exact
particulars of such cures as could be proved to his
satisfaction.
The diary opens with the words, “Ad Majorem
Dei Gloriam ” ( “ To the greater glory of God ”). It
is entitled, “ An Account of the Miraculous Cures
wrought at the gable of the chapel here, where the
Blessed Virgin Mary, the Immaculate Mother, ap¬
peared, on the night of the 21st of August last.” A
further note specifies that the cures have been wrought
on persons who either prayed on the spot, or applied
cement or clay taken from the church to the parts of
the body affected by pains or wounds.
The following are the cases noted :
1. Delia Gordon, daughter of Mr. P. J. Gordon, of
Claremorris ; deafness and pain in the left ear. This,
Sj the first cure reported, was instantaneous. It occurred
on Sunday, the 31st of August. Full particulars of
Y the case, as related to me by Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Gordon,
)| the father and mother of Delia Gordon, and also by
the young girl herself, were published in the Nation
v and Weekly News of the 7th of. last month. The cure
>1 was effected by putting into the ear a small particle of
cement.
si 2. A cripple, name not ascertained. He rode on an
>| ass to the very spot, and was able to walk away.
3. A woman, name not stated, living at Carramore,
)i near Knock. She had been suffering from a sore on
?! the hand. The pain ceased instantly,
si 4. Mrs. Doble, Claremorris.
>j 5. A man named Shallagh, herd to Lord Oranmore.
ci 6. Honoria Horan, of the parish of Kilmovee, county
Si Mayo. She had been a fortnight unable to speak or
)| swallow food.
(i 7. Mrs, (Martin) Busty, Knock; sore eyes.
Si 8. Mary M’Loughlin, Knock. She had been suf-
Ij fering from pain and stiffness of the knee for many
i years, and also from a chronic pain in the right side.
She drank some of the water taken from the ground
at the church gable, and got rid of the pains, which
i have not since returned.
9. A girl from Claremorris, name not stated. Her
i hand had been broken. She was not able to lift it to
her forehead. Now she can use it freely.
10. Mrs. (Thomas) Curry, Knock; sore knee.
11. Mrs. Curry’s neice. She had been nearly blind,
i She could not see the steps at the entrance to the
church. She visited Knock and prayed there, and
I her sight has so far improved that she is able to dis¬
tinguish objects even at a considerable distance.
12. Patrick Curry ; a painful hurt in the arm caused
! by a fall from a horse.
13. Laurence Condron, Jones’s Road, Dublin; violent
| retching.
[I have now before me a letter, written by a Dublin
i lady from which I take the following passage : “ You
Y can tell Father Cavanagh that there was a man here
?! in Dublin, living on Jones’s Road, of the name of
si Laurence Condron, who was very ill, and had a violent
)j retching, and another disease also. A doctor was
(j called in, but he could not stop it with all his medicine.
)j The priest was also called in. The poor man’s mother
)j came here, as she leaves us milk, and I gave her a
X\ little of the mortar, or earth, that you sent me, and
s! the moment he took it he got quite cured, and was
) I here yesterday quite strong. There are plenty of wit-
<| nesses of his being cured on the spot.” ]
14. Patrick Scott, of Ballymoe, a young man who
) | had been a cripple for eight years. He came to the
si church at Knock on the 27th of November, walking
) i by the assistance of a crutch. He left the crutch after
cj him, and returned homeward bounding with delight.
[A declaration in the following terms is now in my
?! possession: “I, Pat Scott, parish of Ballintubber,
s| county Roscommon, do hereby solemnly declare that
) | it is at Knock I received power in my leg, which was
(i not of the least use to me for upwards of eight and a
si half years, being entirely powerless. I could not move
)i or walk without a crutch. I can now walk firmly on
cl it, but it is still short. Ballintubber, 31st January,
Si 1880.” The following is an extract from a letter
>| lately written by Pat Scott to the Yen. Archdeacon
si Cavanagh, supplying some particulars of his case :
)i “Dear Father Cavanagh.—It is with great pleasure
? i I write in answer to yours, which I received a few days
S i ago, but must make an apology for delaying so long
>| referring to the particulars you require to know from
140
March 19, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST.
me. The facts are simply these: Nine years ago I
was attacked with a pain in my groin, and for five
months no one could tell whether I would live or die.
The summer after I was enabled to move very slowly
by means of a crutch, which I continually carried for
the last successive eight years to the day in question.
During that time my leg, down from my hip, was
powerless, but had feeling. I could not go to my
bedside without the aid of the crutch. I never walked
on the heel, but simply tipping the ground with the
top of my toe, in consequence of a contraction of the
sinews. Mrs. induced my mother to send me to
Knock, that holy place, and on entering the chapel
the second time on the same day I discovered the leg
gaining strength. I was so much rejoiced that I
determined to leave the crutch after me, as I did, and
for the first time out of nine years made the effort of
walking, independent to the crutch, with both heel and
toe, to the astonishment of all the neighbours here,
who looked upon me as a very great miracle and
curiosity. I forgot to say I carried a stick, and still
do. I find I am every day improving, but I do not
feel so well satisfied till I pay one or two visits more
to Knock. There is no doubt but I derived this great
blessing from our Immaculate and Heavenly Queen.
. . I am, reverend sir, very respectfully yours, Pat
Scott.’’J
15. John Carney, son of Mr. Thomas Carney, of
Eden ; instantaneously cured of a very sore and terribly
swollen foot by an application of the cement.
16. William Carty; had been suffering intense pain
from a sore finger. As soon as he placed the finger
on the wall, the pain entirely ceased.
17. James Moran, of Kincuin ; pain in the side.
He had been suffering from it for four years.
18. Mrs. (John Hugh) Flalty, of Cloonlea; acute
pain in the right shoulder, arm, and hand ; cured after
three visits to the church.
19. Mrs. (Martin) Fleming, of Tabber, Ballina;
sore leg. In this case the doctors failed to do any
good. By bathing the limD in water containing some
of the cement a thorough cure was effected.
20. Mary Gallagher, Charleston, County Mayo;
blindness. She had consulted doctors at home and
also in Dublin, without the least result. After visiting
Knock she was restored to sight.
21. Thomas Conlon, of Shanvaghera. He was
vomiting blood, was in a dying state, and received the
last sacraments of the Church. He was instantaneously
cured by swallowing in a few drops of water, a small
piece of the cement.
22. Michael Roy an, of Blackloon, Bekan; nearly
blind ; restored to sight by a visit.
23. Anne Lavin, Castleroyan, parish of Swinford ;
running evil; had resorted to medical aid with no
effect.
24. Maria Crean ; evil.
25. Mary Conner, Clonlea; sore and swollen knee.
26. Mary Prendergast, Lessusker. She rode to the
church on an ass, being unable to walk, but walked
home without any difficulty.
27. Martin Curry, Cloonduce; sore foot; applied to
the sore a poultice of clay from the church.
28. A young man from Charleston, county Mayo;
cured of an evil by a visit to Knock, after doctors had
entirely failed to help him.
29. A man from Barnacarroll was cured of deafness
after he had been a victim to it for five years. The
recovery of the sense of hearing was complete.
30. Mary Connell, Wingfield; cured of an eruptive
swelling in the head by going with her mother to
the church at Knock, and praying at the spot where
i] the figure of the Blessed Virgin was seen on the
| 21st of August.
j 31. Brigid Curry, daughter of Mr. William Curry,
] of Lecarrow; cured of constant pains in the head, and
| especially in the eyes and ears.
32. Mr. Joseph Kelly, of Kinclare; chronic head-
| ache and megrim, from which he had suffered for a
j lengthened period.
33. Kate Barrett, Prison; hacking cough of four
I years standing; cured after three visits.
34. Mrs. Kilkenny, of Woodfield; mental derange-
| ment, and also a physical ailment that had defied the
skill of the doctors,
35. James Burke, Coogue, Pulbog; violent pains
in the back and hips.
i 36. Mrs. (Patrick) O’Brien, of Shanvaghera ; re-
I stored to health after long indisposition.
37. Mrs. P. Healy; a similar case to the preceding.
38. Owen Mullarkey; ulcer on the face ; cured after
having lasted thirty years.
39. Mrs. Kennedy, (mother of Miss Kennedy, assis¬
tant teacher of the Female National School at Knock);
cured of deafness. Some particulars of this case were
supplied in one of my former letters.
40. Patrick Kelly, Shammer, Kilmovee ; epilepsy of
a violent type; cured by one visit.
41. Ellen M’Laughlin, Killabeghagh; lameness.
She had suffered for three years past with her right
foot. She could not touch the ground with it. A
number of bones had been extracted from it at different
times. She had to be carried on her way to Knock,
but, while there, she recovered the full use of her foot,
and walked on her return home.
42. A girl named Hughes, the daughter of Andrew
Hughes, of Gurtnarah, parish of Olaremorris; cured of
a pearl cataract on one of her eyes. Her father rubbed
the afflicted eye with some of the cement.
43. A girl named Coleman, of the parish of Claro-
morris; cured of sore gums (the result of toothache)
) I by washing the part with water containing a portion
I! of the cement.
44. Michael Prendergast, a child two years old, the
| son of James Prendergast, of Cloonlara, parish of
j Bekan; cured of a fracture of the skull, the result
I of a fall.
| 45, Mrs. John Waldron, Lauralia ; had suffered
| from violent retching for more than thirty years ; was
| cured by drinking water in which a piece of the cement
! had been deposited.
46. Catherine Freehilly, of Island ; cured of mental
derangement.
47. A young man named Hopkins, second assistant
I in the National School, Claremorris; cured of epilepsy.
48. John Kilgallen, Coogue, now resident in Eng-
j land, received from his mother a little of the cement,
'j and procured by means of it intense relief from the
> | pain of a broken arm.
)| 49. The mother-in-law of the last named was suf-
'\ fering from violent pain, the effect of a fall. An ap-
I plication of the cement relieved her.
j 50. Maria Tully, daughter of Michael Tully, of
j Churchfield; cured of sore eyes, which had afflicted
| her for the space of a year and a half; bathed her eyes
in water containing a portion of the cement.
51. Michael Moran, Tullarahen; deafness, cured by
one visit.
52. Laurence Fleming, parish of Dunmore; cured
of deafness.
| 53. John Kelly, of Ballina ; chronic pain in the
| right side.
1 54. Michael Langan, a man in the employment of
S Mr. Little ; chronic pain in the foot. 1
March 19, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
141
55. Michael MacHale, of Kill ala ; nearly blind;
power of seeing much improved.
56. Thady Connor, a herd, of the parish of Kil-
bridge ; lameness ; much better since his visit.
57 Briged Duffy, Tounane, parish of Kilmovee ;
cured of an evil.
58. Ellen Halligan, of Kilkelly; cured of an evil.
59. Pat Prendergast, Clarefield, parish of Knock ;
cured of an evil. This case and the two preceding
are recorded as having occurred on the same day—
namely, Thursday, the 22nd of January.
60. Pat Boyle, Island; was unable to walk without
a stick and a crutch; was cured on his first visit to
Knock; and left his crutch behind him.
61. Ahoy named Kelly, from Ballyhaunis ; was
unable to place his right foot on the ground, or to
move about without the help of a crutch. He visited
Knock on the 15th of January, and has since been
able to walk without the help of a crutch or even a
stick.
62. Ellen Morris, Tarman, in the parish of Castlerea;
unable to walk at all for a period of two years; com¬
pletely cured at Knock on the 15th of January.
63. Mrs. Grealy, Ballindreagad ; cured of a running
evil on the 15th of January.
64. Mr. Conway, brother of Mrs. Curry; cured of
blindness ; bathed his eyes in water containing some
of the cement. He was able to see on the following
morning.
65. Richard Kane, of Liscal; sleeplessness and general
delicacy of constitution.
66. Martin Concannon, of Kerrane ; a megrim.
67. William Heneran, Lakehill; suffered violent
pain in his foot in consequence of the fall of a stone
upon it; applied the cement, and obtained relief on
the instant.
68. Mrs. Fitzgerald, Swinford; general debility.
69. Miss Glynn, Kilkerrin, housekeeper to Father
John Magreal; pains and general debility.
70. Frank Conway, Eden; arm powerless from the
elbow; cured by an application of the cement.
71. Mary Forestal, Caher, a girl of 12 ; was unable
to make any use of one of her feet; visited Knock, and
returned home quite well.
72. Peter Murphy, Newton, near Claremorris ; cured
of lameness; used to be unable to walk without a
stick.
73. Michael Ansborough, Carramore ; restored to
sight.
74. Mrs. Kelly, Claremorris; cured of a constant
pain in the side.
75. Kate Rogers; consumption ; used to faint every
day for a considerable time ; is quite restored to
health.
76. Mrs. Feeny, hotel keeper, Swinford; violent tooth¬
ache ; cured by an application of the cement.
77. Honoria Cussance, parish of Kiltullagh; blind¬
ness ; cured by visiting Knock. It is stated on the
authority of the Rev. P. M’Loughlin, parish priest of
Kiltullagh, County Roscommon, that medical men had
given up the case.
78. Thomas Moran, of Castles, parish of Kiltullagh,
County Roscommon; a palsy of the head.
79. Anne O’Donnell, of the parish of Carracastle;
blindness and intense pains. She suffered such agony
during a period of three years that her mother thought
she would find her dead one morning. She is now
restored to health and the use of sight.
80. Pat Boyle, of Garlagh, parish of Crossboyne;
epilepsy.
81. Mary Devine, Ballyhaunis, a girl of It; lame¬
ness and an evil.
82. Michael M’Nicholas, of Coogue, parish of Knock ’
blindness.
83. Michael Shaughnessy, parish of Kiltulla; ex¬
treme debility. He had been for thirteen weeks unable
to turn in bed.
84. Brigid Concannon, of the parish of Gian; right
foot powerless; had been unable to move except by the
help of two persons; by one visit to Knock was re¬
stored to the use of her limbs.
85. Patrick Fallon, Mourneen, Curraleagh; had
been for years unable to move unless with a stick and
crutch; now walks without using either. He left his
crutch behind when leaving Knock.
86. Patrick Browne, Brownstown, a boy of about 15 ;
cured of lameness ; left his crutch at Knock.
87. John Cawley, a child of 5 ; cured of lameness;
left after him at Knock the stick he had been obliged
to use.
88. Laurence Madden, of the parish of Clonkeen;
had used two sticks in walking ; was so far recovered
after a visit to Knock as to dispense with one of the
sticks.
89. Mrs. (Thomas) Regan, Carracastle ; constant
pains and general delicacy of long standing.
90. A man, whose name has not been ascertained,
received his sight in the church, before all the people,
while the Angelus bell was ringing on Thursday, the
29th of January.
91. Miss Mannion, of the parish of Roscommon ;
sight improved by a visit to the church.
92. Martin Noone; paralysis.
93. Mary M’Laughlin, Curragh; sore eyes ; had
been for several years afflicted.
94. Michael Nertney, Tulsk, County Roscommon;
restored to sight.
95. Thomas Killeen, of Roslea, parish of Mayo;
sight much improved; had been almost stone blind for
seventeen years.
("The two cases just set down occurred on Monday,
the 2nd of February. I was at Knock that day, and
happened to be in the church enclosure when Thomas
Killeen and Michael Nertney cried out that they began
to be able to see. I questioned both of them closely on
the spot, and gave the result of my inquiries in a letter
written that same evening. Both men convinced me
of the truth of their declarations.]
96. Catherine Casey, Deroughal, parish of Augha-
more; loss of strength and failure of sight; is now
completely recovered.
97. Martin Corcoran, Bushfield, Roscommon ;
paralysis of the leg.
98. Mrs. Hurley, Roscommon; lameness; much
improved.
99. Mary Collins, of Clonbern ; blindness.
100. John Flynn, of Cloonmanagh, parish of Kil¬
movee ; an evil; medical remedies had all been tried
in vain.
101. John Fogarty, of Crusheen ; weakness of the
left foot.
102. Pat Ryder, of Craughwell; epilepsy.
103. Michael Brennan, LBallyhaunis ; palsy of the
head.
Next week I shall give further extracts from the
diary, and very remarkable letters from persons cured.
A “FoodReform Cookery BookA” the text-book of
The Food Reform Association, is a pamphlet just
published in Glasgow, by Mr. James M’Geachy.
Next Sunday evening an address will be delivered
to the Glasgow Association of Spiritualists, by Mr.
James Robertson.
142
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 19, 1880.
THE VERIFICATION OF A DREAM.
Mr. Richard Walker, of Cambridgeport, Massachu¬
setts, writes to The Banner of Light, (Boston, Mass.) of
February 21st:—
In the year 1833 I had left my home at Milton
Mills, N. H., on the 13th of April, for a journey to
different places, calculating to be gone five days. I
had taken a horse and carriage as conveyance, as rail¬
roads were absent on my route. The second day after
I left home I reached Portsmouth, N. H., and that
night I dreamed that an aunt of mine, who had been
in the spirit-world several years, came to me and told
me that my little son was sick and would die; she
also showed me all the arrangements of the funeral,
just as afterwards actually took place. All this was
so vivid and real to me that I had not a doubt of the
fact, and instead of prosecuting my business any
farther, as I intended, which would have led me to
other places, I took an early start for home, arriving
at Dover at 11 o’clock, and, while waiting for my horse
to eat, I entered the house of a near relative, who
urged me to stop to dinner, but I said, ‘‘No, my boy
is sick and will die; I must hasten home.” When I
arrived home I found my little son on his couch with
membranous croup, and the doctor standing over him.
He died before the time I should have been home had
it not been for the dream.
This little son almost four years old, my only boy,
and, bearing my own name, was my pet. The blow
came hard on me, as I then had not the blessed light of
Spiritualism I now have, which would have made the
affliction manifoldly lighter.
 ; 
A STRONG- CASE OF SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Apropos to the recent death of Dr. French, at
Quaker City, who was the last active male believer in
and advocate of Spiritualism in this county, it is
fitting to relate the following startling story, which is
not recited as a proof of the claims of Spiritualists,
although its facts challenge the investigation and con¬
sideration of all who are in any way interested in the
subject. The people named were or tvre widely known
not only throughout the State, but some of them in
this region. They are all of such character that their
truthfulness cannot be questioned by the most incredu¬
lous. The narrative of the statement cannot be dis¬
puted. Explanation, if there is any outside of the
field of a belief in Spiritual manifestations, must be
sought otherwise than by a challenging of the facts.
They are true.
Campbell Starr, known to most of our readers, died
a few years ago at Columbus. He was for several
years before his death a travelling agent for the
Baltimore and Ohio railroad, in soliciting freights. He
was no believer in Spiritualism. Some of his intimate
associates were. There were many twittings between
them upon the subject and at one of them Starr said,
“ If after my death I can communicate with you I will do
so, or if you die first you are to communicate with me.”
The promise was forgotten—not thought of for years,
until the happenings herein related brought it back.
Starr died.. A lady, a warm and earnest advocate of
Spiritual doctrine, living at Cincinnati, was a constant
attendant upon seances in that city. She was rallied
frequently about her foolish belief and labours by her
friends of opposu/ig belief, amongst them Col. W. L.
O’Brien, General, Passenger agent of the Pittsburg,
Cincinnati and qlt. Louis Railway. “ Oh, I’ll bring
you proof,” she said upon one occasion, “this very
night.” “ Well,” said the Colonel, “do so. Bring
us a letter from some of our dead friends.” This lady
was never acquainted with Campbell Starr, and had
never seen or known anything of him. Now Starr
in very many of his letters and on his papers
would instead of signing his name, make the figure of
a five pointed star. After Starr’s death his personal
effects, and amongst them a valuable fast horse, had
been disposed of amongst his friends without sacri¬
ficing them by sale, for they were of such character that
at general sale they would not bring their value. A
friend, named Miller, at Richmond, Indiana, had
bought the horse. All this was unknown to the lady.
On her return on this evening from the seance she
brought a letter sealed to Col. O’Brien. It was opened
and found signed by a five-pointed star. It was a
puzzle until the thought of Campbell Starr’s custom
came up. It was accepted as a good effort by some¬
body to make believe that it was from him. It said :
“ Write Miller not to drive ray horse. The horse will
kill him.” Nothing was seriously thought of it, until
in a few days thereafter the telegraph announced,
“Campbell Starr’s horse killed Miller today. The
horse dashed him against a curb stone and crushed his
skull.” Starr’s prophecy was fulfilled and the mystery
of Spiritualism had another illustration. These are
the facts.—The Jeffersonian (Cambridge, Ohio).
A SERMON AGAINST SPIRITUALISM.
The Rev. George Campbell, recently preached in
the Old Wynd Church, Glasgow, to the effect that
Spiritualism is the work of demons. He selected his
texts from Leviticus and Deuteronomy. Leviticus, 20th
chapter, 27 th verse: “A man also, or woman that
hath a familiar spirit, or that is a wizard, shall surely
be put to death: they shall stone them with stones :
their blood shall be upon them.” And Deuteronomy
18th chapter, Sth, 10th and 11th verses: “ When thou
art come into the land which the Lord thy God giveth
thee, thou shalt not learn to do after the abominations
of those nations. There shall not be found among you
anyone that maketh his son or daughter to pass through
the fire, or that useth divination, or an observer of
times, or an enchanter, or a witch, or a consulter with
familiar spirits, or a wizard, or a necromancer.” The
speaker said that he would be able to show clearly the
Godless, unscriptural, anti-Christian, diabolical and im¬
moral character of Spiritualism, to his hearers that
evening. Spiritualism was no new thing, but old as man—
wicked fallen man, and practices akin to it were strictly for¬
bidden in the Bible ; this dealing with spirits, con¬
sulting the dead, if it had no existence, would never
have been denounced. The language of the texts
indicated the frightful judgment pronounced against
those who indulged in such unlawful, ungodly and
soul-destroying practices. Polytheism, the worship of
the dead, of demon spirits, shades, was the idolatrous
worship of the Canaanites, who were wedded to Baal,
who indulged in sensual grove worship. “ They joined
themselves unto Baal-Peor, they ate the sacrifices of
the dead,” and for these heinous crimes of beastiality,
of idolatory, of consulting the dead, like modern Spirit¬
ualists, the Lord determined to cast them out, to sweep
them off the earth, as vile abominations. For these
sins He would have them utterly destroyed, and give
their land to his own chosen people, the Jews. No
wonder then, were the Israelities warned, aye, and
punished, when they departed from the Lord, and fell
into the practices of those they had transplanted. See
to it, dear friends, he proceeded, that the evils which
March 19, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
123
afflicted those people fall not on you; hut they assuredly
will if you countenance Spiritualism, which is but a
modern reproduction of the crimes mentioned in the text.
Yea, we are reminded by the lesson of the evening, the
end of Saul shall be your end also. The preacher added
that to his mind Spiritualism was demoniacal; of that he
had no doubt whatever. It was a solemn subject.
Spiritualism had produced a great commotion in the
world during the last thirty years. He believed in
Spiritualism as a fact, and not as others had done. It
could no longer be ignored ; it must be met and grap¬
pled with, and the church warned of “ seducing spirits”
in these latter times “ deceiving the very elect.” He con¬
fessed that he had no personal acquaintance with the
subject, but his esteemed friend, the Rev. Dr. Donald
Fraser had, and he (the Dr.) was thoroughly convinced
that Spiritualism was true and that it was demonism.
The newspapers might pooh-pooh, if they liked; it was
a reality nevertheless. Another dear friend of his, a
godly man, came into contact with Home, and from
what he saw and heard came away thoroughly con¬
vinced, and with no doubt in his mind it was all
demonism. There was a great deal of imposture in
the world, and Spiritualism would possess some in
consequence; but to say the whole thing was im¬
posture was utterly impossible to any man of judg¬
ment. He had long made up his mind that it was
genuine; its facts were as patent as the coins of the
realm, a counterfeit of which now and then would never
shake our confidence in the existence of the original.
The real must exist before any counterfeit appears. It
must be borne in mind that modern Spiritualism has
been before the public more than thirty years, a fact in
itself opposed to the imposture theory, and it was those
who witnessed the phenomena who believed in them,
which is another important fact. All scientific men
should investigate the subject. Dr. Wm. B. Carpenter
admitted seventy per cent, of the phenomena to be
genuine, and he had a theory for them, but anyone
who was acquainted with the subject, knew that the
theory was not large enough even to cover the facts Dr.
Carpenter admitted to be true. Prof. Huxley pooh-
poohed the whole thing, saying: “If true, it does not
interest me; ” an unscientific spirit truly, and unworthy
of so great a man. It was the duty of scientific men to
investigate all subjects under heaven so that the people
might know the false from the true. The rev. gentle¬
man then described, to the astonishment of many pre¬
sent, the manifestations which took place in John
Wesley’s house, and ventured to hint that Wesley was
a medium himself. He mentioned manifestations which
took place in the Court of France, in St. Petersburg
and Berlin, and the spirit of Napoleon Bonaparte writ¬
ing his autograph in the presence of Napoleon III.
before the crushing defeat of France. Even so Saul
would consult with the woman of Endor before the
kingdom was rent out of his hands. He told of Mr.
Home floating seventy feet above the ground before
Lord Lindsay and others. He believed this to be true
because some of the witnesses were still alive, had seen
this fact stated over and over again, and had never
contradicted it. Profane history lent itself to Spirit¬
ualism. Socrates had his familiar spirit, who came to
him and gave him certain thoughts; yes, a demon ! not
a figure of speech as some would have them believe. He
regretted to say that nearly all the poets were Spirit¬
ualists, and many scientific men also. He did not deny
that in the Providence of God deceased human beings
might come back, but he did not see the necessity for
their doing so. They must remember the advice of
Abraham to the rich man, and the end of Saul. He
begged his audience to put their trust in God, and not
in spirits. He reminded them that “ secret things be¬
longed to God,” and that consulting spirits was an
abomination. Spiritualism had made its votaries pro¬
fane. They deny the divinity of Christ, they reject the
atonement, and refuse to accept the Bible as the
infallible word of God. They forbade marriage and
indulged in free love abominations to the breaking of
family ties. Spiritualism, although permitted by God,
as all things were, was the work of demons for the
trial of the saints, and the perfection of the church.
Mr. James Coates, secretary to the Glasgow Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, delivered a reply to the foregoing
sermon to a large audience in the Association’s Rooms,
taking for his subject “The Rev. George Campbell,
the Devil, and Spiritualism.” Mr.' Coates invited Mr.
Campbell to discuss the subject in public, the proceeds
to be handed to one of the local charities. Mr.
Campbell declined, saying “he had stated what
(according to his education and religious belief) he
held to be true and for the good of his people, and that he
declined to enter into any controversy.” A few more
ministers preaching in Scotland, that Spiritualism is
true, would do no harm, their congregations could then
ascertain for themselves what the Devil had to do
with it.
 ♦ 
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory will return 'to London
from the Isle of Wight to-morrow.
There is a great want in England of mediums who
can obtain strong physical manifestations in daylight.
The Rev. Joseph Cook, of Boston, Massachusetts,
will visit England in September^
Mr. Eglinton has reached Leipzig, and is giving
stances to some of the professors at the University
there.
Professor Zollner, of Leipzig, has invented a torsion
photometer, in which the vanes of a radiometer act
against the torsion of a fibre of silk.
Mr. Walker, the Australian trance medium, has
left England for Capetown, South Africa, where Mr.
Berks Hutchinson has engaged him to deliver a series
of lectures on Spiritualism.
“Passed to Spirit Life.”—The following news will
have a sad interest for some of our readers:—“ Died,—
on Monday, March 8th, at 8, Museum Yillas, Letitia
Maria, the beloved wife of St. George Stock, Esq.,
M.A. Oxon.”
Spiritualism in Glasgow.—A conference was held
in the rooms of the Glasgow Association of Spiritual¬
ists on Sunday morning last, under the presidency of
Mr. James Robertson. The subject of “ Mediumship ”
was taken up, and among the speakers were Mr. Wood,
of Oldham, Mr. Griffiths, of Birmingham, Mr. Barker,
of Rothsay, and Mr. E. W. Wallis. In the evening,
Mr. Wallis, in the trance state, delivered an address to
an audience which filled the hall to its utmost capacity.
On Tuesday, last week, a social gathering and enter¬
tainment ^was held in the Association’s Rooms, 164,
Trongate, in honour of Mr. E. W. Wallis, as an
acknowledgement of the work for Spiritualism which
he attempted in Cornwall. Mr. James Walker occupied
the chair. After tea, Messrs. Broadley, Barker, Mr.
Coates, Miss Nesbit, and a few others contributed to
an excellent entertainment of songs, ^readings, conjur¬
ing tricks, and speeches. The proceeds were handed
over to Mr. Wallis
144
THE SPIEITUALIST.
March 19, 1880.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late Wm.'Geeqory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Sjurituausm.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I s—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar' Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retro vision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., _ Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VH :—Trance, Natural and Accidental 5 Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII;—Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in whioh they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible ot Mesmerism
—^Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Cnrstals, &e.; on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylio
or Mesmeric light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—^Physiological, Therapeutical, &c.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—^Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—^Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—^Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—^Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &o..
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XT t—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII s—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—^Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII s—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep-
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Cases—^Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIVDirect Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—^Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London*
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
8. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I [speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seawees because
no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
March 19, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. 'White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
■women ; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of tinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pricisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
-OALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
.S_ in Spiritualism, by Christian Reimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at siances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
Researches in the pheno¬
mena OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st., W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for l£d; or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENQER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
” Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa¬
tion of spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to siances, &c.,_ apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, daily. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.   
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each j or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S. C., care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.  • 
rpHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
oldest j ournal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.O,
Price 3s, Cd. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To Yon who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelina
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia 0.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House, By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXTV.—The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV.—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVT.—Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Siance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesf alien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience, By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. - By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougal!
Gregory.
XXIV. —Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XXV. —A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academic:
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts*and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS PROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XT. Reconciliation—XII,
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live ”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O.
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Soeiete Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modern Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modern Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation; their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modern Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O's made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepenoe,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far-
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to “ drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase_ the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con¬
sequently irreligious age.
IV
THE S.P 1311 T U A L IS T.
March 19, 1880.
Accidental Indigestion
BEFORE AND AFTER THE *3 tf
CHRISTMAS PUDDiNG,
ENO S FRUIT SALT
Erery Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain'a bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health-
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season. , ; ,
It is the best Prevehtitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers,' Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach,. Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Da. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world,”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER.. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Woon Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. ' It
acts like a charm. Itallays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injuiious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de la Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. He is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
In the house.”—M. Beral.
END’S FRUIT SALT.— “After suf¬
fering.for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try END’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ SUCCESS IN LIFE.”—Anewin-
kJ vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adaus.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked "ENO’S Fit UIT SALT.” Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemist*. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatebam, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings'. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,"
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
‘RY- WltLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The'Morning
Post, Graphic', Court Journal and some twerity br thirty
other standard journals,
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song ol
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was I holographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief ot the College of Howling Der¬
vishes At Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12 Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mpther-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. ‘‘Poor
Old Joe! ”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Eallads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30, The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book inareview nearly a column long, says.—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Hamson (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers-, but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
. • RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
H
OW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCitSTY.
H
OW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent; repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
, FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
March, 1880. J [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
The present position and future needs of Spiritualism
in England ; M.A. (Oxonl—Kiddle’s Spiritual Com¬
munications—^Exposures or Spiritualism; Dr. Nicholls
—Two Views of Spiritualism; M.A. (Oxon)—A Needed
Lesson; Georgina Houghton—Extracts from a Spirit¬
ualist’s diary ; A. M. H. Watts—The last Words of
James Nayler, the Quaker Martyr, 1660—Notes and
Gleanings—Lessons in a School of Life—Victorien
Sardon, the French Dramatist—The Message of Spirit.
nalism to the Criminal—Higher Aspects of Spiritual¬
ism—Poetry—A Psalm of the March Winds; J. T.
Markley.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW: Hay Nisbet & Co., 52, Ropework-lane
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shallnotnow enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free 7Jd.; cloth.
Essays
rpHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
JL SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold
Medals ok the British National Association os
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C. ,
CONTENTS.
Eternal Punishment      133
The Apparitions at Knock     135
Detailed Descriptions   135
The Virgin Mary, St. Joseph and St. John.
seen by about twelve witnesses at once  135
The Scene in the Church    136
The Testimony of Archdeacon Cavanagh  186
Healing the Afflicted     137
The Ecclesiastical Committee of Investigation 137
PoetryAn Incident    137
Experiences of Anaesthetics. ByC.C. Massey ... 138
Correspondence: —The Australian Trance Medium 138
Diseases healed by Spirit Power at Knock   139
The Verification of a Dream     142
A Strong Case of Spirit Identity  142
A Sermon against Spiritualism  142
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in Glasgow   143
  Passed to Spirit Life    143
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane,' London, E.C.
