Registered as a Newspaper,
Cfcc (Dtt^st Uftosppr f0mur^!Cr bil^ Sphitualism m Unfair,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraip, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON :
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 287. (VOL. XII.—No. 8.) LONDON: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
foments*
Spiritualism and Modern Culture. By William H. Har¬
rison , ...   85
Intellectual Spiritualism. By J. T. MarMey 87
Spirit Identity. By G. L. Ditson, M.D.   : ... 88
Mr. Felt and the Theosophical Society. By John Storer
Cobb, Treasurer to the Theosophical Society of New York 89
The Soul and the Spirit. By Professor Alexander Wilder,
M.D., Vice-president of the Theosophical Society of New
York    89
A Seance with Mr. Eglinton..    ... 90
A (Seance with Mrs. Bassett    ... 90
New Books      90
A Haunted House   ...  91
Correspondence: — Theosophy — Spiritless Souls — Test
Seances—What Truth is there in Astrology ?—Physical
Manifestations—Materialisation Phenomena—Madame
Blavatsky—Spirit Photography in Paris—The Science of
Man and Mind—More Freedom for Women—A Case of
Distress ... ...     92
Answers to Correspondents    96
Paragraphs:—Christian Warfare, 88 ; Reception at Dr.
Speer’s, 90 ; Brixton Psychological Society, 90 ; The De¬
scendants of Hiram Powers, 91; Spiritualism in Dalston 96
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IH 1869.
rriHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
•A- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking *juntries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;%His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Slake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the 'i Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling.
nury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont,
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, RusseU-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street,
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
ASTROLOGY. “ Worth its weight in gold.”
* Every adult person living should purchase at once
“YOUR FUTURE FORETOLD," a book of 144 pp., cloth, only
2s. Gd. London: Berger, Newcastk-jtreet, and J. Burns; or
post-free of E. Casael, High-street, Watford, Herts. Instruc¬
tions to purchasers gratis.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for February, 1878.
Friday., 22nd.—Seance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
., ., Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Monday, 25th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.. Paper by Miss Kislingbury, on
| Some Phases of Writing Mediumship.”
Thursday, 28th.—Private Seance for Members at 8 p.m.
Mr. W. Eglinton, medium.
SEANCES.
Seances for Inquirers are held weekly at 38, Great Russell-
street. Inquirers may have Tickets free, on application to
the Secretary, with personal recommendations from a Member.
Admission to Members and one Friend, Is. each. Private
Seances for advanced manifestations for Members only, by
special arrangement. Admission 5s.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have, the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the. use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
R E C I T A T I O N S
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
Every Thursday in February and March, at 8.15 p.m.
Changes will he made in each Programme.
' Tickets maybe had at Mitchell’s library, 33, Old Bond-street;
Hayes’s box office, 199, Regent-street; at the Hall: or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denhigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of eight recitations, one guinea each. Single tickets—Stalls,
3s.; chairs, 2s. ; balcony, Is.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You.will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving yon time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms :—18c, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <&c.;
post free, seven stamps.
TMRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C,
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon..
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
T> EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
X.V logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published toy the Socitti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable .
to M. Leymarie.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Ckanios Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may he obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W,
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand,
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
BUSINESS.
A GENTLEMAN (A PRIVATE MEDIUM)
Preparing to introduce at the Paris Exhibition one of the most
important inventions of the age, one which will bestow some
of the greatest blessings of God to man, requires the loan of
£500 immediately to complete the requisite machinery, models,
<fcc. Liberal interest and good security can he given. Principals
only are requested to address at once, appointing personal
interview, to A. G„ care of Mr. E. R. Marsh, 49, Chippenham-
road, Paddington, W. ' .
Just published, price 5s., richly gilt,
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful hook to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism.
CONTENTS. —
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of SheUey to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stoilop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burse—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. j.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna iBlackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies. D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A, Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Beme; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F.R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, .88, Great Russell-street, W.C.
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
'ADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7.30,
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. B al. East-street; Mr
Elmer, St, James's-straet; and Mr. Boughton, St. Goorgo's-
road.
11
THE SPIKITUALIST,
Feb. 22, 1878.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Colder, Esq., I, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Dldsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper' Norwood.
i’itz-Gerald, Mrs.,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brlxton, S.'W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Ilonvwood, Mrs., 82, Warwick-square, S.VV.
Juncken, Henry D., M.E.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C. *••**—; . ..
Massey, 0. 0., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
CowMil.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The'Mansion, Richmond ItilL,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, lb, Dunkeld-street,-Liverpool.-
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.'W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malapar,” Portsmouth.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road,- Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Gheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brlxton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sheoter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
•Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W„ 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Relmers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N„
Klr'awbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawfcridge.Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Oavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq,, 1, Hereford-
square,'West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, XI., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss KIslingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
f he Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobltz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
F. l Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey,U.S. A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 46, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Party, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Ruasell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,988, Boston, U.S-A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E, Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes;Esq., 33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery,Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 288, Chaussee St. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Ruo du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
52. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan,Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaoe, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Hohore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 87, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 84, Denbigh-street, Bel grave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 64, Denbigh-street, Be'grave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Strath, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet. Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharinby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, SW.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon, Secre¬
tary, T. Biyton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff. , * .
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.  
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, Ss. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
A STROLOGY, a Popular Sketch of
-CSl. Celestial Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J.
Pearce, author of the Weather Guide Book, &c. Price
Is. 6d. Sent post free by the author on receipt of stamps ;
address, 8, Cedars-terrace, Queen’s-road, South Lambeth, S.W.
The TEXT BOOK OP ASTROLOGY, by the same author,
is now preparing for publication. Vol. I. will contain the
complete rules, and all tables necessary for calculating Na¬
tivities on the Placidian method improved by Zadkiel, by
spherical trigonometry (the only reliable and truly scientific
method). To subscribers the price will be 7s. the first volume.
Intending subscribers will please send their orders to the
author.
Price Sixpence.
Fin HE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
JL CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
(fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, P.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OP SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.U.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the. rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Oolby and Rich. London : Spirit¬
ualist Office.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American .
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
^ S.W. 
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN,
Healer and Trance’ Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
Hours Srom 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours,
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms ; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes.
R. J, J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
1V/rDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
Lv JL At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
Eft W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
i # engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.  , , 
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Catnpden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, <&c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
TSS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
RS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—•
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m,
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
ISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 40, St. Mary’s-terrace, Maida-hill West, London.
TL. HENLY, Mesmeric Healer, 429, Oxford-
• street. At home from 1 till 3 p.m., Saturday and
Sunday excepted.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE OROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
Eubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of'inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations, now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
"OLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
JL SCIENCE, by Epes Sar&bnt. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomena], Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.: post free for lid.: or six copies post free
for 6d.
jl ff % yijixgwjsis til ani jlitjups ut
VotujviE Twelve. Number IJiqht.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22nd, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM AND MODERN CULTURE *
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Me. President, Ladies, and Gentlemen In human |
society two antagonistic forces are ceaselessly at work, the I
one employed in building up, the other in pulling down, j
The disintegrating power sweeps away institutions when I
they become effete and corrupt, and sometimes does so before 11
that stage is reached; the constructive power erects good |
and bad institutions in the face of opposition, and sometimes J
preserves those which are injurious to the community at H
large. The extreme representatives of these two classes are j <
not usually of the highest mental capacity ; the one extreme j j
section can only tear down without being able to erect any- | j
thing with efficiency; the other stubbornly resists every i
attempt at improvement, and does so from a senseless j
antipathy to reasonable change. The march of civilisation 1
and culture is along the line which divides these two oppos- <
ing powers, and the great men who publicly represent each !
of the two great sections of thought are never extreme in ;
their views, or they would be too far from the central line
along which alone the movement of the general body
politic is practicable. That such is the case will be brought
home to the consciousness of those who make a study of the
British Legislature and its constituent elements, and these !
same building up and pulling down forces are at work inside |
Spiritualism, as well as everywhere else.
The work of building up is more noble than that of dis¬
integration. True it is that no human institution is perfect,
and that he who erects any mental or material structure
soon sees within it certain faults, which he would take care
to avoid if ever he had to perform the same work over again.
These faults are glaringly visible to those whose function it
is to destroy, and who survey the defects in all useful work,
through magnifying glasses of a green colour. One of the i
objects, therefore, of the present paper, is to show that the
greatest services rendered to Spiritualism do not come from
those in our ranks who would like to see Westminster
Abbey razed to the ground and a circus erected on its site,
and who would rejoice to see a flood of Vandalism overflow¬
ing a culture, the outcome of the growth of ages. Another
object is to show that for Spiritualism to progress with
strength, it must do so by methods which ages of human
experience have proved to be sound.
Spiritualism is expected by many of us to effect in course j
of time great revolutions in human thought, and so, in my
opinion, it will, but not in the way that some of us expect.
Not by preaching or by sending tracts from house to house
will the anticipated result be attained, not by singing hymns
or by listening, in a state of psychological semi-intoxication,
to utterances from the mouths of the garrulous, which
utterances, in nineteen cases out of twenty, are of inferior
religious and intellectual value to the writings of those of our
best thinkers who deal with the same subjects. By preaching
and singing, the area of the movement may, indeed, be ex¬
tended, as has been done in America, but the finest and the
governing minds in the nation will remain untouched by
such methods.
Science did not reach its present state of culture by the
talking and dreaming of its votaries, but by the step-by-step
hewing of granite blocks, in the shape of new truths, from
the great storehouse of nature, in the midst of the ridicule j
of those who saw no use in each freshly-cut stone, and who
found it easy to look on and condemn whilst others laboured, j
Thus, in the midst of opposition from the populace and from j
the Church were the sciences of astronomy and geology built j
up so strongly, that they are now safe from further injury |
from the turbulent sea of ignorance around. The firmest !
I and strongest development of Spiritualism must be made in
! the same way, by the careful observation of its facts and
] the unravelling of its laws, until we are able to say to the
| intellectual world outside—u We have studied the mental and
| physical phenomena in our midst; we have classified them, and
| can tell you their nature and their laws. We can show you where
I they fit on to your previously-acquired branches of know-
I ledge. We can demonstrate the uses of that which we are
| prepared to teach, and give you a new philosophy of the
healing of the sick, the curing of the insane, the ultimate
constitution of matter, and the evolution of religious ideas.
We can also offer you evidence, adapted to the thoughtful
mind, of the reality of a life immortal for man.”
In the days of old, before the printing-press and the
electric telegraph had begun their work, the establishment
of new truths was a slow process, and the fruits of the
shedding of the blood of martyrs were recognised centuries
after their work had been accomplished, when their memories
were publicly honoured by statues of stone, but privately
lived in the hearts of the people. Now, the march of events
is quicker. Harvey, as Professor Huxley pointed out a few
nights ago, was in his day manifestly bringing some great
truth into the world, as proved by the rancour displayed
against him by the contemporary press, but he lived to see
his scientific revelation established in the public mind. When
I heard these sentiments uttered, it occurred to me that the
speaker might have read some letters of his own in the re¬
port of the Dialectical Society, with advantage. He added
that Darwin had lived to see his theory established. With
these and other precedents as a guide, it would seem that the
popular abuse of Spiritualism will not reign more than three
| or four years longer. But this is a digression.
The position already mentioned which we should take in
relation to the cultured world, will not be firmly established
without much step-by-step, plodding, prosaic hard work.
If the ancient Egyptians and the Chaldean shepherds who
first thoughtfully observed the motions of the heavenly bodies,
had contented themselves with prayers and praises, with
giving way emotionally to the instinctive reverence for the
unknown which is a characteristic of simple-minded people,
astronomy would not have progressed as it did in those early
times. But they began the laborious work of recording the
facts, mapped the apparent paths of heavenly bodies, and
laid a good foundation for the more efficient cultivation of
astronomical science at the hands of Timocharis, Arystillus,
and Hipparchus. The fixed stars were catalogued, and in
course of time the Ptolemaic theory was evolved, to be over¬
thrown by that of Copernicus when more facts had been
collected.- The telescope was invented; by laborious processes,
by the study of fact after fact, it was made achromatic, and
.in the same hard plodding way improvement after improve¬
ment was introduced, until by means of good instruments,
micrometrical measurements, the logical use of mathematics
and observed facts, an altitude has now been reached which
could never have been gained by drawing upon the inner con¬
sciousness. Sun and system, and myriads of stellar worlds
are familiar to the man who reigns as high priest in a modem
observatory. He can tell of suns unnumbered moving
i through space with attendant worlds at velocities which the
| mind cannot grasp, and of distances so great that some of
| the stars in the heavens which we observe to-night may
| have been blotted out of existence one or two years ago, be-
I cause the light from them which reaches our eyes, has been
| more than that time travelling to our little earth—our little
! grain of mustard-seed in the universe—at a speed of 186,000
| miles a second.
What revelations by man’s inner consciousness could have
j demonstrated so much of the glory of God, as these results
* of slow honest work? The German poet tells how God
* A paper read on Thursday, last -week, before the Brixton Psychological Society.
86
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 22, 1878,
called up in dreams a man into the vestibule of heaven,
saying, “ Come thou hither and see the glory of My house.”
And to the servants who stood around His throne He said :
“ Take him, undress him from his robes of flesh; cleanse
his vision, and put a new breath into his nostrils, only
touch not with any change his human heart, the heart that
weeps and trembles.” It was done, and with a mighty
angel for his guide, away from the terraces of heaven they
wheeled into endless space. And the poet tells how they
passed through eternities of twilight which revealed but
were not revealed; how they passed suns and systems
quickening under prophetic motions from God ; how a cry
arose that systems more mysterious, that worlds more
billowy, other heights and other depths were coming, were
nearing, were at hand. Then the man sighed, and stopped,
shuddered, and wept. His overladen heart uttered itself in
tears, and he said, 11 Angel, I will go no farther, for the
spirit of man acheth with this infinity. Insufferable is the
glory of God. Let me lie down in the grave and hide me
from the persecution of the Infinite, for end, I see, there is
none.” And from all the listening stars that shone around
issued a choral voice—“ The man speaks truly; end is there
none that ever yet we heard of.” Then the angel threw up
his glorious hands to the heaven of heavens, saying, (i End
is there none to the universe of God. Lo I also, there is no
beginning.”
This vista could not have been opened to the mind
of the poet without the previous revelations of science;
and by science, and by scientific methods, plead I,
must Spiritualism build itself up with strength to bring
within its ranks the cultured of our race. It must
patiently accumulate each little fact after fact, of
which we can no more see the immediate value, than Gal-
vani when investigating the cause of the motions of the
limb of a dead frog, anticipated that his work would ulti¬
mate in the electric telegraph ; or that the experiments in his
kitchen would ultimate in one upon the broad Atlantic, in
which the Great Eastern, laden with all the most delicate
appliances which modern scientific culture could devise, set
sail from the shores of Ireland, attended by two men-of-war,
to place the Old and New Worlds in instantaneous com¬
munication with each other. I well remember the scene, as, on
a summer’s morning, with the port of Valencia dimly visible
on the horizon, the leviathan ship, with her attendants,
started for America with the slender thread (just attached
to the heavy shore end) running out over the stern. The
excitement of those who witnessed the scene was too deep
for words, and must have resembled that which agitated the
minds of those present at the departure of Columbus from
the little port of Palos to explore what some supposed to be
to the westwards a shoreless sea.
Illogical speculators dislike that study of facts which
results in scientific culture. Let Spiritualists take the
decided stand of encouraging the investigating method to
the utmost, and in this respect let us avowedly and practi¬
cally separate ourselves from the position of the narrower
religious sects.
Come we now to art culture. If new religious or scientific
ideas have a tendency to degrade the fine arts, to that extent,
at all events,, are they reprehensible. I hope that the in¬
tolerant spirit of the Puritans which induced the British Par¬
liament, in the time of Cromwell, to sell off the collection
of valuable paintings made by Charles I., because some of
the pictures represented the Virgin Mary, and expressed
theological ideas not their own, will never find a parallel inside
Spiritualism. Rather let us encourage art in every possible
way by making it a branch of education, and by strengthening
the hands of its more deserving professors. I hope that in
our buildings, when we possess any, the square box style of
architecture of the majority of Welsh chapels will be avoided,
and think that more especially in the construction of that
first public hall for Spiritualists which is looming in the
distance, should care be taken to prove to the public that !
we are a body in whose midst art can flourish to its fullest j
extent. As one of our trance mediums (Thomas Lake Harris)
once said, when under inspiration:—
The swallow’s nest of mud beneath the eaves
Holds not the white swan’s golden feathered brood.
: If thou wouldst make thy thoughts, 0 man, the home I
Where other minds may habit, build it large.
Make its vast roof translucent to the skies
And let the upper glory dawn thereon,
Till morn and evening, circling round, shall drop
Their jewelled plumes of sun-flames and of stars.
Build thou that home upon a mountain-top
Where all the free winds shall have space to blow.
Open its casements to the East and West,
To North and South, to Greece and Palestine.
Let all sweet flowers bloom in its green retreats ;
Let every wild-bird find sweet welcome there ;
And everything that shares the breathing joy
Of universal air and earth, be free
Of thy well-ordered empire, and inlay
With precious gems, with diamond and white pearl,
And blood-red ruby, and green emerald,
The sumptuous pavement till it shines afar
Like the Apocalyptic shrine, whose walls
Of massive light from Earth and Sun received
All varying lustres, and diffused their beams.
Presco its inner halls with all that Art
E’er pictured of the beautiful, but still
Let nature freely come to see that Art
Hath rightly drawn her perfect loveliness.
Pill the grand halls with statues of old time,
Let Gods and Demi-gods and Heroes range
With Goddesses and Graces. Let the Saints,
And Seers, and Sages, and the valiant throng
Of modern Heroes, and the fever young
And ever tuneful Poets of all climes,
And Hierophants of all religions, have
Their place among them, some in silver carved,
Some in the Parian marble; some in gold ;
Each symbolising that interior truth
Or outward use he lived, taught, acted, sung
Or sought to live, or act, or sing, that men,
Pired by that pure ideal, may become
Gods, and the Earth a new-born Paradise.
Let Dante sing from out his Middle Age;
And Machiavelli, with his subtle skill
Unveil the craft of Tyrants ; nor forget
The richly-flowered muse of Camoens ;
Or love-lays born of Europe’s loyal heart
Chanted by Troubadours in sweet Provence.,
Gather the ripe fruit of all Sciences
Until thy plenteous board gleams rich and rare
With clustered branches of Hesperian gold.
Let every Art stand in its perfect form,
And preach the Gospel of Invention to
The eager intellect. “More Light! More Light!”
Be this thy motto; yoke the patient years
To plough the fallow fields of History
For buried treasures, gems and precious coins,
And marbles, that shall come from out the dust
To tell how beautiful Antiquity
Sat on her ivory throne; how looked, how spake
The Hero-ages of departed time.
Then, when thy mind grows like the purple East
With dawn-fires from the Sun of light, go forth,
And, in that rich and eminent domain,
Gather together all sweet Charities,
And bid them dwell with thee. In that fair home
Let Freedom rule, and, having won the world
In winning its transcendent essence, give
That world, thy heart, thy life away in love.
Although art was brought to such perfection by the
ancient Greeks that everything produced by the hands of
that people seemed steeped in beauty, presenting a marked
contrast to the numerous vulgarities of the external London
of to-day—the outward expression of the highest ideals of a
money-grubbing people—it does not appear that the decadence
of Grecian art was due to the inroads of the vastly inferior
early Christian art which overspread Europe. Greece, with
its art, went down under the influence of despotism and ex¬
travagance. It may be that its culture was not really lost,
but distributed over a wider area. As a case in point, I may
here mention that although mesmerism has apparently died
out, for it has made little external sign for ten or fifteen years,
I, a few years ago, found on inquiry that in private its ad¬
herents abound, that it has all along been widely practised.
Let us have the highest moral culture in our midst, and
lead lives which shall force slander and envy to shrink into
their dens abashed. Let us not be afraid to run the risk of fall¬
ing in a good cause, rather thai^by preference, rising in a bad
one. Let us not make compromises between right and wrong,
between good and evil, for the sake of an ignoble peace, but
when the path of duty is clear, take it unflinchingly, leaving
the results to a higher power. The compromising spirit
never produces such men as Dunedin’s provost:—
Feb. 22, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
A brave old man was he,
Of ancient name and knightly fame,
And chivalrous degree.
He ruled our city like a lord
And brooked no equal here,
Yet ever for the townsmen’s rights,
Stood up ’gainst prince and peer.
More of this chivalric spirit is needed in these milk-and-
water enervating times, and needed too in women as well as
in men. Where now can one find any Flora Macdonald to
give heart and hand in support of that which she believes to
be true, rather than to ignobly sail with the vulgar tide ?
There may be a few, hut few indeed are they.
Lastly, religious culture demands attention, and in this I
think that we are advancing in more rapid strides than the
rest of the world. A final creed absolutely prohibits growth;
it says to its devotees :—“ Thus far shalt thou go, and no
farther ; outside these limits you must neither think nor
speak.” Thus is growth prohibited, except among those
whose minds have developed in spite of external pressure,
until they are obliged to burst the chains of unhallowed
authority; they then fly to the other extreme, become
scientific materialists or secularists, and adopt the demoralis¬
ing system of living only for the body and for this life.
Such men often lead good lives, but they do it in spite of
their creed. The scientific materialist is somewhat akin in his
nature to a Spiritualist. He searches the field of nature,
reverently exhumes truths which in their ultimates are
beyond his reach, outgrows the narrow cramping creeds of
the time, but, having nothing much better to put in their
place, treats them with partial respect, yet in times of
severe trial sends up a wail, a supplication, to the Unknown
God. Such are not far from Spiritualism. Little of the
persecuting influence comes from them, although false ideas I
about them have been established by a few inferior indi¬
viduals in their ranks. The secularists are of another order.
They are a religious sect, fighting for a dogma, possessing
no knowledge of the nature of iC matter ” so far as it is
revealed by the experiments of Clerk Maxwell, Thomson,
and others, but clinging to fancies of their own with which I
they have encrusted the word. Culture would not neces¬
sarily flourish under their rule any more than under the
control of the Puritans; they are a ponderous, matter-of-
fact body, deficient—as Mr. Markley has well pointed out—
in the poetical sentiment. They are among those already
mentioned who would make short work with Westminster
Abbey, and who could never say within its walls or cloisters,
A feeling sad came o’er me as I trod the sacred ground,
Where Tudors and Plantagenets were lying all around ;
I stepped with noiseless foot as though the sound of mortal tread,
Might burst the bands of the dreamless sleep that wraps the mighty
dead.
They understand beefsteaks and dollars, but with few
exceptions they appreciate poetry as much as they do the j
hieroglyphics of the prehistoric Mexicans.
As regards the religious influence of Spiritualism, already
have the phenomena proved the fact of human immortality;
the fear of death has been abolished ; the proof given that |
miracle is no test of the truth of a doctrine ; much of the
philosophy of revelation has been laid bare, and the social
and other forces which influence the growth of religions have
been presented in action for study.
To sum up. Let it be ours to build even with the neces- I
sary admixture of a little error, rather than to pull down.
Let us encourage culture of every kind in our midst, and
take care that that which is of home growth shall contrast
favourably with culture of the same order outside Spiritualism.
Let us spend more time in working than in singing and preach¬
ing ; let us have peace at home, and avoid that contention
with the outside world which necessarily results from trying
to drag in antagonistic disbelievers by the necks and heels ; I
rather than this, let us so improve ourselves that they shall
come knocking at our doors asking for admittance. Finally,
let us survey the whole human race with an undying love,
even though we be misunderstood in our time, and forced by
the errors of men to yield the body to the grave, and the
spirit to God who gave it.
On Sunday next, February 24th, at 7 p.m., Mr. J. J. Morse will
deliver a trance address in the A then team, Temple-street, Birmingham ;
subject—“ Spiritualism as found in the New Testament.”
INTELLECTUAL SPIRITUALISM.
I BY J. T. MARKLEY.
It has been remarked, how seldom the front-rank scientific
ij witnesses speak out in connection with Spiritualism. The
|| cause is not far to seek. If such pre-eminent believers in
;| the phenomena, as Messrs. W. Crookes, C. F. Yarley, A. It.
tj Wallace, and the well-known influential list of learned
| worthies identified with this subject, do not join in a popular
j propaganda, they are to be excused on many grounds,
j Readers of this journal need not be reminded of the many
I E men of faith” in the Spiritualistic ranks. With the hot
| emotional enthusiasm of almost Methodist excitement, the
| “ men of faith” yield easily to those legerdemain scandals
j which so often disgrace the movement. Sham i( mediums”
I quickly read the pre-dispositions of such masculine-gender
j old ladies; and the calmly cautious investigators have to
blush for periodical and successful imposture. This, in
! itself, is a lamentable fact. Names of world-wide weight
| are thus habitually lost to the cumulative evidence ot
| Psychological inquiry; and the testimony of famous men
! creeps forth only in a stage whisper. Other important
j personages—chiefly Litterateurs—stand aside, as dispas-
| sionate and non-emphatic watchmen, simply because
j of radical sneers at historic religions. Our noble friends
j S. C. Hall, Dr. Maurice Davies, and scores, of whom they
I are but the conspicuous spokesmen, maintain a reserve as
i determined as it is disastrous. Few sensible Spiritualists
| would cling to the feeble theological platform of orthodoxy.
But to assume direct antagonism to the unmatched moral
>j sweetness of Christ, and His mountain-side precepts, is to
|| make phenomenal and philosophical Spiritualism a mere
> I vulgar, clay-god worship; or to level it down to the intense
II “ flesh and blood,” hot-dinner creed, of Mr. Bradlaugh and
11 Annie Besant. If, therefore, we are to estimate the full
'j force of intellectual Spiritualism in England and on the
11 Continent, we must first bind great and original thinkers
11 together in a rare confraternity of other world aspiration ;
ij with the undying charm of spirituelle affinity, to cement
|j and consolidate the holy alliance. When the Times gave
11 half a page, five years ago, to stance records and discussion,
ij the intellectual champions of Spiritualism came boldly to
| the front, and amazed lettered society by a surprising united
11 testimony. We only need cautiousness, culture, and un-
i impeachable character, for a repetition of such interest and
11 encouragement.
Let Spiritualists combine to stamp out impostors, and
I the counterfeit article, and the most widely important of all
l| anxious studies, 6e If a man die, shall he live again ?” will
II soon absorb the attention of all thoughtful people. A sign
I of this ingeniously screened interest may be noted in tbe
II public prints of the day. Editors and literary contributors
11 in magazines, newspapers, and other organs of the press,
>| occasionally betray a profound intellectual leaning towards
I psychological experiment, and towards the marvellous
j evidence of trained experts whose cool words, and premitre
>| character raise the question at once to the highest status
II of respectability. London correspondents of provincial
j! daily papers, gossip writers in “ society” journals, and
)\ the far from ghostly flaneurs of influential reviews con-
|j tinually essay faint fun about Dr. Slade, D. D. Home, Dr.
|j Monck, and a thousand dancing mahogany tables, simply
>| to advertise a subject in which all but fools are interested ;
> even Punch takes Spiritualism between his nose and chin,
h occasionally to kiss^as well as curse it; and the merry con-
>| freres of Tom Taylor catch up, if with a crackling laugh,
j the latest edition of the seance room apparitions. Added to
j this, in editorial comments, written with the slowness of
j dissolving doubt, and feeling abroad for the “ opinion”
11 which newspapers reflect, but cannot originally inflict, we
jl see the possible drift of cultured thought in the direction of
11 a theme now too well buttressed to be pushed aside, evaded,
11 or contemptuously despised. The moral of the situation is
[| obvious. When—in a few years—the nakedness of honest
11 and verified experiment causes thoughtful men every-
|i where to throw off the mask and testify to what they really
! know about Spiritualistic investigation, the array of eminent
| and honourable persons will give the movement the most
i commanding distinction. Meanwhile, would it not be wise
88
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb" 22.1878.
to prepare for an intellectual future experience, as referring
to this question, by cultivating those gifts and graces in
mind and morals, which will give a nobler welcome to the
coming issues of this new faith ?
Peterborough,
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
BY G. L. DITSON, M.D.
Believing that at this time when the identification of
spirits, so called, is a much mooted question, anything
which gives strong presumptive evidence that spirits can be
identified, might interest the public, I record the following
facts:—
A beautiful young lady, the wife of an officer of the United
States’ army, passed from her earth-life soon after marriage.
Her piano, guitar, and daguerreotype were inherited by my
family, and became household treasures. One evening three
of us—one of the Fox sisters, Mrs. Ditson and myself—
were sitting in my parlour in the dark near the said piano, j
when Mrs. Ditson felt on the top of her head a hard sub¬
stance which fell at once down into her lap and thence to
the floor. What could it be? Whence came it? How j
could it have come ? The medium, one of whose hands I j;
held, had not moved. Presently, something came upon ■
my arm and made its way down into my hand. Feeling j (
it, I discovered it to be a picture-case, one (supposed) of jj
quite a number containing daguerreotypes and photographs
which we had left upon a table in another part of the room.
The question now was: What miniature portrait did it con¬
tain ? Several guesses were hazarded, when there was
spelled out by raps: r One whom you love, but have never
seen.” Light was produced, and on opening the case, the
likeness of the young lady referred to was found. I had
never seen her, but had learned to love through her picture,
and, through testimony, her many amiable qualities, and I
regretted her too early sad death.
At another time a delicate hand (supposed to be that of
the above-named bride), though not distinctly outlined,
was seen playing the guitar, the handle of which projected
out beyond the table under which it had been placed. I say
the hand was not distinctly outlined; this was rather be¬
cause the intense brilliancy of the central light of which it
seemed to be composed made the configuration imperfect
to the human sight.
Last Sunday evening, on calling at the house of a friend,
I found a small gathering of Spiritualists, among whom was
a woman who was considered to be quite a good trance
medium. Though this person knew me quite well, I do not
think she could possibly have known any thing of my j
family relations; not enough to have enabled her to express
herself as she did. When entranced, she described a
number of individuals, giving names that were generally
recognised. Erelong she announced ^Susan” as present. |
One of the company said that she had a relative in the spirit j
world who was called Susy. The medium made no response, j
I then said, without thinking for a moment that I should j
have a favourable answer, “ May it be my aunt Susan ? ”
Immediately the medium extended to me her hand and
shook mine cordially. Now, she could not, I am quite sure, |
have known that this was the name of the one whom I loved
but had never seen.”
Returning home, Mrs. Ditson and myself sat alone at our j
little H spirit table,” which tips and slides about in a manner
expressive to us of the presence of certain individuals. The j
right hand corner, for instance, slides around, tips, and
presses against me for my spirit mother; the other corner
does the same for the aforesaid Aunt Susan. As soon as we j<
were seated, I asked if my mother had appeared and given jj
her name at the seance from which I had just come. The j
table tipped “ No.” I asked if my brother had thus mani- j
fested himself there; and again came, uNo.” I then said, j
“Did Aunt Susan?” The left-hand corner glided around j
to me at once, pressed me warmly, and said almost, if not j
quite as emphatically as if expressed in words : “ Yes; the j
one you love, but have never seen.” ' i
These facts seem to me to confirm that the veritable spirit |
of the young lady, naturally attracted to my family, to my j
household, by circumstances partially explained above, did !
manifest herself in the first instance as stated, and did con-
| firm her presence and individuality by her subsequent de-
! monstrations.
I If we are in any instance ever to be subject to “ goblins
| damned,” should we be unreasonable if we claim that there
I must first be conditions favouring such a subjugation; and if
we by pure lives, simple diet, holy aspirations, cannot hold
i ourselves aloof from such influences, should we not be
| justified in believing that God’s authority in this universe is
j overruled ?
Some time since a wealthy gentleman, a Mr. D., editor of
j one of our most popular periodicals, called on me and
I related the following circumstances. As he has himself,
| partially at least, made them public, he will not consider it
j a betrayal of his confidence if I repeat them here. •
| A girl whom we will call Mabel, who proved herself to be
j possessed of many very estimable qualities, on leaving
j school visited Mr. D.’s office seeking employment. A place
i was given her, and she soon became a valuable assistant,
devoting herself with much zeal to the editor’s interest,
evidently in heartfelt gratitude for the aid afforded her, and
by which she could help to support a widowed mother. A
[ few short years passed, when she sickened and died, greatly
[; to the grief of her sincere friend, her employer, who
; j thenceforth, whenever opportunity offered, sought to com-
j mune with her gentle spirit. One day, at the house of a
clergyman whose wife was a medium, he obtained, he
j believed, a communication from her. She said (granting it
! to be our Mabel), that if he would go to Mumler’s and have
j his photograph taken, she would appear on the plate with
i him ; and, to make evident to him that it was herself, she
I would appear in a favourite striped dress, and with a
| wreath upon her head. He of course went to the photo¬
grapher’s, and the result was as promised. She was not
j only present, but so bent over him in an affectionate atti¬
tude that her cheek obscured a portion of his forehead,
i She wore, too, the wreath, and though the small photograph
does not show the stripes in the dress, Mr. D. told me that
an enlarged one, which he had had made from it, does show
them. Furthermore, between this picture and the one taken
before her death there is a striking, an unmistakable
resemblance. Of this last statement I am positive, for a
j copy of each was sent to me ; and being framed and hung
(with many other so-called spirit pictures) in my dining-
j room, are often before me. The story, however, is not yet
| complete. When Mr. D. was in this city he called upon a
I worthy young medium, of a private family, who knew
! nothino: of his reasons for seeking her. She described to
] him, in a most satisfactory manner, he told me, his lost
| Mabel, then claiming to be present. Mr. D. added also,
| that whenever and wherever he had been enabled to obtain
| a seance with a trustworthy medium, Mabel invariably
| satisfied him of her presence.
There appears to me no good, plausible way of account-
j ing for all this, except upon the commonly-received spiritual
j hypothesis; unless we say, as perhaps the Theosophists
! | will, that the medium read in our minds, the characters, as
| we contemplated them, of our fair departed ones ; or, in the
| affair of the photograph, projected upon the plate, from the
| album, the figure desired by the mourning editor, thus
| rendering the actual presence of the dear Mabel wholly un-
| necessary.
1 Albany, United States of America, Jan. 17th, 1878.
J
! Mb. Berks Hutchinson writes from Cape Town, South Africa
j “ The Malay priests in this place use a kind of magic, after the style
of the Indian Fakirs.” Some details, the result of personal observa-
! tion, would be of interest.
Christian Warfare.-—TA# Times' correspondent gives the following
| “terribly suggestive” fragments of conversation which might for
| months past have been overheard in hundreds of drawing-rooms in
! St. Petersburg.—“ Poor A ! he has just heard that his only son has
been killed in the Shipka Pass ! ” “ You know dear young Madame
B., who was married only a few months ago 1 She is already a
widow ! ” “ Is not this war too horrible ? Have you read to-day
the description of the way in which our poor wounded soldiers are
i tortured and mutilated ? ” “Miss C. is really to be pitied; she has
i three brothers before Plevna, and has not heard of them for a
month.” ‘‘Madame D. was too late; her husband was already dead
when she arrived at Bucharest.” “ How is the E. family to exist now
that their father has been killed ? ” Who can say that non-combatants
have not as intense an interest in the maintenance of peace as those
who actually take the field ?—Women's Suffrage Journal,
Feb. 22, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
89
MR. FELT AND THE THEOSOPHIOAL SOCIETY. j j
BY JOHN STOKER COBB, TREASURER TO THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY OP j (j
NEW YORK. | jj
In the columns of No. 285 of your valuable paper, I have j
seen some editorial remarks upon the Theosophical Society ! <j
of New York. In these strictures you lay considerable stress | jj
upon the fact that, with respect to some expected manifesta- j jj
tions by Mr.-George H. Felt, the president of the society, jj
in his opening address, held out hopes which have not been jj
realised. ' j|
Permit me to say that, in the address referred to, the j|
anticipations expressed were based upon statements made by j
Mr. Felt himself, and by his professions and promises were j
fully justified. The non-realisation was beyond the control j
of the president or of the society. Mr. Felt entered into a j
definite undertaking to deliver his lectures and exhibit his
experiments. Though I do not feel at liberty to give the j
precise nature of the arrangements made, I have no scruple i
in stating that they were in accordance with Mr. Felt’s own j
propositions, and, as may naturally be supposed, were ex- j
ceedingly favourable to him. Time and place were named, j
and the former more than once altered to suit the lecturer’s j
convenience. One lecture was delivered twice (much to the |
surprise and disappointment of the audience on the second j
occasion), but beyond that Mr. Felt did not go. j
As to the merits of the question between the Occultists jl
and the Spiritualists, I am scarcely competent to enter into jj
the discussion. Nor is it necessary that I should do so.
Colonel Olcott and Madame JBlavatsky are well able to i
champion the views which they advocate, and “ M.A. Oxon.,” j j
yourself, and others, are fully equal to the task of pursuing
the other side of the question.' It does appear to me, how- j j
ever, that the chasm between you is not impassable. The j j
great difference between you seems to lie principally in a j j
matter of terms, and of an order of causes and their sequences, j j
Each is very far in advance, both as to doctrines and system, j j
of the hitherto accepted religious dogmatic teachings; and j
it is to be earnestly hoped that, although minor differences j |
of opinion may exist (as, indeed, they must among any com- j j
munity of persons possessing claims to intellectual attain-
ments or possibilities), hands will be joined to help forward j
and carry to fruition the good cause, and that the examples j
of so-called Christian sects under similar circumstances may j
not be followed.
London, February 15th, 1878. j j
THE SOUL AND THE SPIRIT.
BY PROFESSOR ALEXANDER WILDER, M.D.,VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE THEOSOPHICAL j j j
SOCIETY OF NEW YORK. I {i
In The Spiritualist of December 27, 1877, there is a com- j
munication from Mr. Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., j
purporting to criticise a statement of Col. H. S. Olcott, in |
regard to the views of the Theosophists. Somewhat of a jj
lack of candour appears in the mode of rendering Col. Olcott’s j i
language. When the attempt is made to state a man’s words in j j
another form of speech, there should be care taken that the j j
new expression be the precise equivalent of the other. One j j
may make such a statement in a very plausible manner, ad !
captandum; but when he neglects this caution, he does j
nothing for the truth, but against it. Mr. Fitz-Gerald I j
appears to me to have erred in this respect. j
“What Col. Olcott calls the 4 elementals,’” Mr. Fitz- j
Gerald remarks, “he calls also 4 the forces of nature,’— j j
modern science calls modes of energy, and equates to j j
m. h = m. . ! !
* J I •«. ... rn 1(1
In this matter there is one very definite distinction. The m
forces of nature though “ errant, unthinking, and soulless,” j j
are not lifeless, but are operated by a power superior to |
themselves. The phrase “ modes of energy ” does not meet i
this idea; for it is more properly equated, m. h = m. -p* and j
comes immediately within the definition of half-truths— j
phenomena without an adequate cause. The aim of Theo- jjj
sophical exploration is beyond that. The “ exact science ” j j
which will not acknowledge God or spiritual existence, be- j j!
cause it has not measured either with a plumbline, or put it jjj
in a crucible, and is more incapable of doing so than the j j
Danaides were of dipping out the ocean, is hardly competent to
be umpire. It may, in its own sphere, be a useful auxiliary.
But we can yield it no high respect in its pretensions, when
it endeavours to oust the priest from the temple and God
from His shrine, to instal itself as Pope and Supreme Pontiff
over human faith. It may practise black magic with
4‘ potential energy,” and even enchain men’s intellects to
blind materialism—which now seems to be its outcome. But
the true scientist is always a Theosophist first of all. “ Exact
knowledge ” can properly be nothing less than the yvooat^
ro)v ovtcov—the knowledge of things as they are; and the
modern science which deals only with phenomena can never
pass the limit of what Paul denominates “ temporal,” and
the Eastern sage, “ Illusion.” That flaw in its system can
be remedied only by that science which in the noble expres¬
sion of Dr. Wyld, “ reveals to us a knowledge of the world
which now is, that which is to come, demonstrating that the
spirit of man is supreme over matter, and therefore im¬
mortal.”
Theosophy is doctrine for the learned rather than dogmas
for the unlearned, as our excellent brother, Hurrychund
Chintamon, has felicitously expressed it. There is no
antagonism to modern science where it has any real exactness;
but it cannot be founded on or connected with the dogmas of
the latter wherein these are so doubtful that two scientists will
not agree, or wherein they need to be revised after profounder
explorations. If “ Modern Science,” therefore, will not keep
within its legitimate province, it will be—if not behind the
times, at least—an infinite way short of that real truth,
which knows no “ times.”
I must acknowledge a little surprise that another writer in
the same number, charged that the assumption had been
made “ that form-manifestations are caused by the soul
(meaning what we call spirit) leaving the body.” I have
neither had nor desired an experience with doppels myself.
It is my bent to learn myself and the cosmos around me by
the testimonies which are more normally supplied to me,
rather than to disturb the manes of the dead. Spirits just
emerging into new modes of existence are likely to be too
much and too well employed, to render it proper for me to
meddle with them and their vicissitudes. Such things I
leave for those who “ know God in parts.”
A preciser diction should be employed by those who de¬
sire to know spiritual science. The incorrect habit of term¬
ing the spirit soul has promoted a looseness of idea, which
is often very pitiable. In the Hebrew and Christian sacred
writings, the soul was made an entity distinct from the
spirit. It was the self, the seat of sensation, emotion, pas¬
sion ; and in its lower tendencies was allied with “ the heart”
or “ flesh.” Hence Paul says “ The first man was a living
soul.” The spirit was the divine part, as declared by Paul
in his Epistle to the Galatians iv. 16, 22—25.
The Hellenian and Ionian philosophers employed other
designations for this part of our nature. It was denomi¬
nated nous, generally translated mind, though not signifying
mind as the term is commonly used. It seems to have been
an Egyptian designation of divinity, nout or noot. Anaxa¬
goras employs it in that sense. Hence Menander applies it
to the diviner part of man: “ The overshadowing of the
nous or mind is our daimon or divinity. A divinity {daemon)
is placed with every man to be his initiator into the arcana
of life; it is good, for no divinity {daimon) thinks ill, setting
at nought the life of excellence ; the divinity {daimon) needs
all things to be good.”
The Orphic writer is a little more definite: “ The Father
placed the mind {nous) in the soul, and the soul in the
sluggish body.”
Plutarch asserts that the soul—the psychical entity—^never
leaves the body, but only the daemon or spiritual double
which has its abode in the upper part of the head. It holds
the soul above the fleshly passions in the spiritual man;
but the sensual man immerses the soul in the flesh and so
dies.
I have been a little prolix, but as I understand Colonel
Olcott’s exposition, he said precisely what I have just ex¬
pressed in other terms; and the critic absolutely misunder¬
stood him.
In the first disembodiment, at death, the soul goes out
with the light of the spirit, but sometimes is sufficiently
enveloped with earthy or corporeal particles as to be able to
90 THE SPIRITUALIST. Feb.22, 1878.
become visible to clear-seeing persons, sometimes to make a
voice heard, and certainly to impinge the thought. But
this condition is not or should not be lasting. While the
two entities remain together, the person is a ghost or demon
capable of going about the earth for good or evil, and in¬
fluencing the acts and thoughts of those en rapport with him.
But in due time the two are separated as by another dying,
and the good repair to heavenly places.
Newark, New Jersey, United States, February 1, 1878.
A SEANCE WITH MR. EGLINTON.
Last Saturday night, at a private stance held at the house
of Mrs. Makdougall-Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-
square, London, Mr. Eglinton was the medium. In the
dark, while the hands of the sitters, including those of Mr.
Eglinton, were interlinked, an arm-chair from another part
of the room was floated over the heads of the sitters, and
deposited on the table. Lights of a phosphorescent appear¬
ance, but without smoke or smell, and objectively visible to
all the sitters, moved round the outside of the circle : they
usually first appeared in the neighbourhood of the medium.
Sometimes luminous words were seen, resembling such as
might be produced by a phosphorescent light behind letters cut
in an opaque diaphragm ; these floated freely about while the
medium was held. Faintly illuminated spirit-heads were occa¬
sionally seen by all present. Towards the close of the seance^
after the sitters had taken fresh places, we held Mr. Eglinton
by both his hands, as he sat upon a sofa at one side of the
room; a form, the upper part of which was dimly visible
by its own light, then appeared about a yard off, and went to
the sitters, who were in a row, with their hands joined, three
or four yards off, at the other side of the room, where the
form spoke to them and touched them, while the outline of
its head was still dimly visible occasionally.
A SEANCE WITH MRS. BASSETT.
Last Tuesday night, a private seance with Mrs. Bassett, of
9, Chobham-terrace, Stratford, E., was held at Miss Ottley’s,
41, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, London. The first part
of the sitting took place in the dark. While Mrs. Bassett’s
hands were held by Miss Ottley on the one side, and Mr.
Inglefield on the other, a living materialised hand moved
about for a few minutes, touched all the sitters either on the
face or hands in turn, and rang a bell. We saw it as it
passed in front of one of the windows through the closed
curtains of which some feeble glimmering of light found its
way; the arm of the hand had a sleeve. The remarkable
voices, which are a chief characteristic of Mrs. Bassett’s
mediumship, occupied most of the time during this part of
the sitting.
After Mrs. Bassett has been sitting for half an hour in
the dark, or not long enough to tire her, the spirits having
got up the power, can usually produce phenomena in the
light. Last Tuesday, after the dark seance, Mrs. Bassett,
Miss Emmett, and Mr. Inglefield sat round a little table in
the centre of the drawing-room, by the light of a candle
two yards from them. Strong raps came again and again
from the little table, also from the floor, and the chairs of
two of the sitters. Mrs. Bassett then withdrew her hands
from the table, but strong raps still came from the top of
it, and an arm-chair, about a yard in front of her, which
nobody was touching, took a run of about eighteen inches
towards her.
Mrs. Bassett had never entered the house before in her
life. Seances in the light, such as she could give if she
cultivated her powers sufficiently to obtain the phenomena
with certainty, are much wanted in this country.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten has left the United States, to
deliver trance lectures in Australia.
Slate-writing phenomena are now developing to a large extent
among Australian mediums.
On Monday next, at 7.45 p.m., at the usual fortnightly meeting of
the National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, Miss Kislingbury will read a paper entitled—“ Writing Me¬
diumship in relation to Spirit Identity.” Some remarkable cases will
be brought forward, taken from foreign sources, and which are not
generally familiar to English readers.
jfleto Itfooftiei.
IThe new book by^M.A., Oxon,” on Psychography, is
| rapidly approaching completion. It contains much strong
| evidence demonstrating the reality of the phenomena, well
| put together by an able writer. The following is a synopsis
of the contents of the work :—
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbe —Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses :—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern Reporter,
Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George King,
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Yon Yay, G. H.
Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H. Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan, Epes
Sargent, James O. Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer, C. A. Green-
leaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages UnJcnown to the Psychic :—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Blackburn
(Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese (Slade) ;
Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins); Romaic—
Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Watkins).
III.—From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurers Contrasted; Slade before the Research Com¬
mittee of the British National Association of Spiritualists; Slade Tested
by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J. Page Hopps, W.
H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing within Slates securely
screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. Andrews and J. Mould; Dictation
of Words at the Time of the Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S., Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley,
George Wyld, M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions
Inside a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of
Circumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were con¬
ducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White Paint—
Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressedto The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecution of
Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Barrett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci,, and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr. George
Wyld’s Theory: The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s Theory.
Volumes I. and II. of The Spiritualist, bound in one,
may now be had, containing a history of the movement in
England from the end of 1869 to the end of 1872, and in¬
cluding many records unique in their character. These two
volumes are very scarce, and constantly rising in value, for
no set of The Spiritualist can be complete without them. The
pages of the two volumes are about the size of those of
the Illustrated London News. The book is handsomely
printed, and bound in half-calf, with red edges.
Reception As Dr. Speer’s.—Last Wednesday night Dr. and Mrs.
Stanhope Templeman Speer gave a reception at Douglas House, St.
John’s Wood, to Spiritualistic and other friends, among whom were
Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Mrs. and Miss Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Stack, Miss Kate Burrowes, Mr.
Barrett, Mrs. Going, Mr. J. H. Gledstanes, Miss Kislingbury, Dr.
Carter Blake, Miss Mackay, Miss Katherine Poyntz, and Mr. W. H.
Harrison. Some excellent music and singing were given by Mr. Charles
Speer and others in the course of the evening.
Brixton Psychological Society.—On Thursday, last week, at a
meeting of the Brixton Psychological Society, held at 6, Loughborough-
road North, Brixton, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., presided.
Among the Spiritualists and non-Spiritualists present were Mrs. and
Miss Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, the Hon. Mrs. Forbes,
Mr. H. E. Frances, Miss Emmett, Miss K. Emmett, Miss Laura
Emmett, Mr. Inglefield, Mr. F. Barrett, Mr. E. P. Ashton, Mr. and
Miss Barrett, and others. A paper on Spiritualism and Modern
Culture, printed in this issue, was read by Mr. W. H. Harrison, after
a complimentaiy introduction by the chairman; the latter said
in effect that The Spiritualist newspaper had done much to make
Spiritualism respectable and respected even by those who did not
believe in it. After the reading of the memoir, Mr. Fitz-Gerald,
Mr. E. P. Ashton, Mr. H. E. Frances, and Mr. J. Barrett made a
few remarks, and the business proceedings closed ; but what with the
lively character of the meeting, and the warm reception given to it
by Mr. and Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, the company did not begin to separate
until an hour and a half later.
I’eb. 22, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
91
A HAUNTED HOUSE. j
Tinsley's Magazine, for December 1878, contained a true | |
story of a haunted house, the only fictitious part of the tale I j
being the names of the individuals given. It is entitled, j |
“ Lady Farquhar’s Old Lady.” Lady Farquhar, with her | J
sister and mother, rented a house in the spring of 1855 for | J
six months, in a little village in the south of Ireland; of the IJ
previous history of the said house, they then knew nothing, j j
Lady Farquhar says :—
“ Helen wasn’t satisfied till I agreed to wear a bright 11
scarlet neck-ribbon of hers, and she ran off to her room to j J
fetch it. I followed her almost immediately. Her room and 11
mine, I must, by the bye, explain, were at extreme ends of a j ]
passage several yards in length. There was a wall on one 11
side of this passage and a balustrade overlooking the stair- j i
case on the other. My room was at the end nearest the top | ]
of the staircase. There were no doors along the passage j'
leading to Helen’s room, but just beside her door, at the end, j i
was that of the unused room I told you of, filled with the IJ
old furniture. The passage was lighted from above by a sky- j i
light—I mean it was by no means dark or shadowy—and ! |
on the evening I was speaking of, it was still clear daylight, j J
We dined early at Ballyreina; I don’t think it could have j
been more than a quarter to five when Helen came into my |
room. Well, as I am saying, I followed her almost imme- I
diately, so quickly that as I came out of my room I was in
time to catch sight of her as she ran along the passage, and i
to see her go into her own room. Just as I lost sight of her
—I was coming along more deliberately, you understand— !
suddenly, how or when exactly I cannot tell, I perceived j
another figure walking along the passage in front of me. It
was a woman, a little thin woman, but though she had her
back to me, something in her gait told me she was not
young. She seemed a little bent, and walked feebly. I
can remember her dress even now with the most perfect dis¬
tinctness. She had a gown of gray clinging stuff, rather i
scanty in the skirt, and one of those funny little old-fashioned
black shawls with a sewed-on border,that you seldom see now- j
adays. Do you know the kind I mean ? It was a narrow, j
shawl-pattern border, and there was a short tufty black fringe |
below the border. And she had a gray poke bonnet, a |
bonnet made of silk ‘ gathered ’ on to a large stiff frame;
; drawn ’ bonnets they used to be called. I took in all these
details of her dress in a moment, and even in that moment I
noticed too that the materials of her clothes looked good, j
though so plain and old-fashioned. But somehow my first
impulse when I saw her was* to call out, <c Fraser, is that
you ?” Fraser was my mother’s maid: she was a young j
woman, and not the least like the person in front of me, but |
I think a vague idea rushed across my mind that it might be
Fraser dressed up to trick the other servants. But the figure j
took no notice of my exclamation; it, or she, walked on
quietly, not even turning her head round in the least; she
walked slowly down the passage, seemingly quite uncon¬
scious of my presence, and to my extreme amazement, dis¬
appeared in the unused room. The key, as I think I told
you, was always turned in the lock—that is to say, the door
was locked, but the key was left in it; but the old woman
did not seem to me to unlock the door, or even to turn the
handle. There seemed no obstacle in her way: she just
quietly, as it were, walked through the door. Even by this
time I hardly think I felt frightened. What I had seen had
passed too quickly for me as yet to realise its strangeness.”
Lady Farquhar thus describes the second appearance of
the ghostly visitor:—
<cAt last I rose and turned towards the door—it was
standing wide open, by the bye. But I had hardly made a
step from the fireplace when I was stopped short by what I
saw. Again the same strange indefinable feeling of not
knowing how or when it had come there, again the same pain¬
ful sensation of perplexity (not yet amounting to fear) as to
whom or what it was I saw before me. The room, you must
understand, was perfectly flooded with the fire-light; except
in the corners, perhaps, every object was as distinct as
possible. And the object I was staring at was not in a
corner, but standing there right before me—between me and
the open door, alas !—in the middle of the room. It was
the old woman again, but this time with her face towards
me, with a look upon it, it seemed to me, as if she were con¬
scious of my presence. It is very difficult to tell over
thoughts and feelings that can hardly have taken any time
to pass, or that passed almost simultaneously. My very
first impulse this time was, as it had been the first time I
saw her, to explain in some natural way the presence before
me. I think this says something for my common sense,
does it not ? My mind did not readily desert matters of
fact, you see. I did not think of Fraser this time, but the
thought went through my mind, ‘She must be some friend of
the servants who comes in to see them of an evening. Per¬
haps they have sent her up to look at my fire.’ So at first
I looked up at her with simple inquiry. But as I looked my
feelings changed. I realised that this was the same being
who had appeared so mysteriously once before; I recognised
every detail of her dress : I even noticed it more acutely than
the first time—for instance, I recollect observing that here
and there the short tufty fringe of her shawl was stuck to¬
gether, instead of hanging smoothly and evenly all round.
I looked up at her face. I cannot now describe the features
beyond saying that the whole face was refined and pleasing,
and that in the expression there was certainly nothing
to alarm or repel. It was rather wistful and beseech¬
ing, the look in the eyes anxious, the lips slightly parted, as
if she were on the point of speaking. I have since thought
that if / had spoken, if I could have spoken—for I did make
one effort to do so, but no audible words would come at my
bidding—the spell that bound the poor soul, this mysterious
wanderer from some shadowy borderland between life and
death, might have been broken, and the message that I now
believe burdened her delivered. Sometimes I wish I could
have done it; but then, again—oh no! a voice from those
unreal lips would have been too awful—flesh and blood
could not have stood it. For another instant I kept my
eyes fixed upon her without moving; then there came over
me at last with an awful thrill, a sort of suffocating gasp of
horror, the consciousness, the actual realisation of the fact
that this before me, this 'presence, was no living human
being, no dweller in our familiar world, not a woman, but a
ghost! Oh, it was an awful moment! I pray that I may
never again endure another like it. There is something so
indescribably frightful in the feeling that we are on the verge
of being tried beyond what we can bear, that ordinary con¬
ditions are slipping away from under us, that in another
moment reason or life itself must snap with the strain; and
all these feelings I then underwent. At last I moved,
moved backwards from the figure. I dared not attempt to
pass her. Yet I could not at first turn away from her. I
stepped backwards, facing her still as I did so, till I was
close to the fireplace. Then I turned sharply from her, sat
down again on the low chair still standing by the hearth,
resolutely forcing myself to gaze into the fire.”
The narrative which, as already stated, will be found in
full in Tinsley's Magazine for December 1873, sets forth
how it was atterwards discovered that an old lady, a former
occupant of the house, died at Geneva, about the time that
her spirit appeared as described, to one who had never seen
or heard of her. In this latter respect the narrative differs
from most of the kind, therefore it would be of special
philosophical value to psychologists, if it were to be fully
authenticated by the publication of true names and addresses.
We hope this authentication will be forthcoming.
A nation cannot last as a money-making mob; it cannot with
impunity—it cannot with existence—go on despising literature, de¬
spising science, despising art, despising compassion, and concentrating
its soul on pence.—Ruskin.
The Descendants op Hiram Powers.—Mr. Powers, who was long
the Nestor of American sculptors in Florence, and favourably known,
especially in the domain of portrait-busts, still lives in the many works
of his studio, where he is succeeded by two sons—Longworth and
Preston. Longworth is the older of the two brothers, but lie has only
recently turned his attention to modelling. Preston, who will be
remembered in Boston, where he spent a season a few years ago, is
well advanced toward his father’s position. There are frequent calls
for reproductions of the elder Powers’ works, and the great studio is
quite an interesting museum of the heads or full-length statues of dis¬
tinguished Americans. Mrs. Powers seems to be happily situated. In
her handsome villa, outside the Porta Rom ana, she has her married
children—two sons and a daughter—settled around her.—Boston
Herald, Jan. 2’Jth.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 22, 1878.
92
^omsponiience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.]
THEOSOPHY. | /
Sib,—There is something divinely tender in the heart of woman, not- !|
withstanding any hard mode of thinking in which she may have been | j
brought up, or, may be, led to study; the quality of mercy is not easily Ij
strangled in her, spite of any drawback, I had almost said, even at the |)
expense of her logic. And so Madame Blavatsky tells us, in The j)
Spiritualist of Feb. 8th, tC That man must be indeed a true animal ! \
who has not, after death, a spark of the divine ruach, or nous, left in j >
him to allow him a chance of self-salvation.” These words, after the (
hard matter of fact inference of the loss of trinity of all physical (
mediums, and the certain alleged future “ annihilation ” of the elemen- j
taries, their familiars, come upon us softly as the summer breezes, and j
are more precious than rubies when they proceed from the heart. But
are they in conformity with occultism, as generally interpreted by her- ) j
self? Is not Madame Blavatsky here, and occasionally elsewhere, like i
some Calvinistic minister whose soul-power occasionally steals a march |!
upon his will, and now and again forces him, in conformity with ) j
divine law, to emit some hopeful words in behalf of humanity at large, j (j
which he will, however, take care never to “nail’t wi’ Scripture,” Iji
though, in truth, it might be done, and even can be done more effectually m
by Madame Blavatsky with her Buddhism. For ourselves, we cannot j (j
conceive a spark of a spark. A man’s spirit is, indeed, a spark of J)|
the Divine Spirit, at least so we believe; but it will not cut up; we j j
must, as Col. Olcott shows, retain the whole God-given spark, j|
not a spark of it; or, if it be possible, as he thinks, lose it altogether, ) 1
or lose it altogether for a very long time. But, then, he shows it (j
will, in the latter case, return in full, as it leaves in full. It may be (j
useful to talk of a spark of a spark just now, when the English Spirit- ) j
iialists have heard for the first time of that very unscientific but dis- (j
heartening problem of man’s annihilation, put before them gravely, and j
the survival of the fittest brought in evidence of the same ; forgetting ) j
that science teaches us nothing can be lost, though new combinations (j
accrue, and that which is unfit to-day may, by evolution, be rendered j j
fit hereafter; and that which is lost be found. Does not Colonel Olcott i
say in The Spiritualist of December 7th, “ The astral man, or double or 11
souh” that is, a soul which has lost its Divine vovg; in other words, a ) ]
spiritless soul, “ freed from physical imprisonment, is followed by the I |
consequences of his earthly deeds, thoughts, and desires : he either (j
becomes purged of the last traces of earthly grossness, and, finally, after !
an incalculable lapse of time, is joined (rejoined) to his Divine spirit, !(
and lives for ever as an entity, or, having been completely debased on | j
earth, he sinks deeper and deeper into matter, and is annihilated?” In i
both the above cases, according to Colonel Olcott, the astral man, or !<
mere “soul,” has lost his Divine altogether. There is nothing j j
here about a spark of it being left, as Madame Blavatsky puts it, “ after ll
death,” and, “usually^” the Colonel adds, “the separation of soul and j
spirit occurs before the bodily death.” If man be a Trinity, which I j|
believe he is, and if he, can lose more than the one of these parts, that 1/
he does lose, I mean, the body, that part must go entirely, as the body j j
goes at death. And, indeed, while the body is alive, it will not bear '
cutting up, certainly not the better portions, which the spirit and soul \
make use of for reasoning purposes; and if the body survives with the '
loss of a limb, the soul body remains in toto, and it is said that if the
stump of an amputated limb is placed against a wall, the soul leg is felt
to pass through the wall, showing that the latter will not bear the loss
even of a limb; and the soul body is higher than the body of flesh, how
then can the spirit, which is higher still, suffer loss ?
But here we are met by another occultist difficulty, a new spoke which
they have put in their own wheel, which refutes the theory of Madame
Blavatsky, that of the soul of man retaining at death a portion of the
Divine spark which was once his in its entirety, as a man ; as well as it
refutes the idea expressed by Col. Olcott, of the soul losing the Divine
spirit altogether, as a rule, before death, and retaining no portion of it
whatever; in other words, man losing the only valuable part of his
trinity before he dies, often many years before he dies. This third and
different assumption, which is in flat contradiction to both the above
diverse views of Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott, emanates from
“ a very learned occultist,” quoted by Mr. C. C. Massey in The
Spiritualist of March 16th, 1876, who shows, unlike the others, that
all matter of every desorption is imbued throughout every atom with the
Divine spirit. Consequently, the soul, or astral man, with living body
or without it, the soul, I say, being matter, is imbued throughout with
the Divine spirit, simply because it is matter, if for no better reason,
however evil or good it may be. And this third diverse occultist doc¬
trine is also fatal to the astonishing speculation that infants and idiots
are without the Divine spirit. Here is what this “ learned occultist ”
teaches us : “ The Hermetist, who sees with both eyes, instead of with
one only, observes that each atom, no matter where found, is imbued with
that vital principle, called spirit. Thus each grain of sand, equally
with each minutest atom of the human body, has its inherent latent I j
spark of the Divine light.” How then can a man lose this Divine light, !)
in part or in whole, “as a rule, before death,” if eoc^ minutest atom of j
the human body has its inherent latent spark of the Divine light? I !)
must add that I think some of the ideas of the modern occultists might \\
surprise an average Buddhist as much as they do a Spiritualist—I say j\
nothing of an average occultist. None are so ultramontane as the new jj
converts; they perfectly surprise the good people on the other side of :)
the Alps. And so true is the Darwinian principle of the natural fight js
for predominance of the “fittest,” we must not say elbowing for the j)
high seats of the synagogue, that I should never be surprised if we ij
should find, not only elemental spirits, but elemenfaries following suit, jj
"What else causes the tendency to condemn, no matter to what abysmal f
depths, those whom men or spirits consider a little lower than them¬
selves. And to such a pitch has this uncharitableness arrived that we
are constrained to murmur, with our great poet—
In religion,
What damned error, but some sober brow
Will bless it, and approve it with a text,
Hiding the grossness with fair ornament ?
Or to cry out, in incipient despair—
Thou almost makest me waver in my faith
To hold opinion with Pythagoras,
That souls of animals infuse themselves
Into the trunks of men.
M. A., Cantab.
SPIRITLESS SOULS.
Sir,—It is curious to learn from Mr. C. C. Massey, as a Theosophist,
that, whereas in March 1876, an “elementary” meant “ the rudimen¬
tary spiritual being in process of evolution into humanity,” which,
“ when it dies out of one state of existence, is born into a higher one,”
yet that now, in January, 1878, an “elementary ’’ means, “ a departed
and earth-born soul, a creature of the elements in whom the human
spirit has no part.” But the “astral man,1’ or the “ soul,” according to
Colonel Olcott, has also lost his spirit; and the “ elementary,” at any rate
up to a certain point, is an astral man. Here is shortly Colonel Olcott’s
definition of the two: “The astral man (or double or soul), freed from
physical imprisonment, is followed by the consequences of his earthly
deeds, thoughts, and desires. He either becomes purged of the last
traces of earthly grossness, and finally, after an incalculable lapse of
time, is joined or rejoined to his divine spirit, and lives for ever as an
entity; or this astral man having been completely debased on earth,
sinks deeper and deeper into matter, and is annihilated. Usually the
separation of soul and spirit occurs before the bodily death; this is the
rule, but still there are exceptions.” Colonel Olcott’s second definition
depicts the “ elementary.” He, she, or it is doomed, anyhow.
“ Having been completely debased on earth,” he, she or it is to be
“ annihilated.” But we must remember that the “ elementary, as a
rule,” loses the spirit while he is a man. So, while he is living, a living
man, and he may remain a long time on earth before he dies, there is no
distinguishing him from any other’s “soul,” “double” or “astral man.”
In short, he is one ; and it must be a dainty speculation for the Theo-
sophists to look round among their old acquaintance, and meditate on
which are to be elementaries, and which only astrals. What I, however,
now desire to point out, is this new discrepancy in our teachers. They
have already, within the last two years, entirely changed the meaning
of the, to them, important word, “ elementary; and now, while Mr.
Massey confines the present designation of “ elementary ’’ to a
“ departed soul,” Colonel Olcott shows him up as a living man;
indeed, very living and indistinguishable from an astral man, and,
truly, for that matter, indistinguishable, perhaps, in outward appearance
from even an irreproachable Theosophist of the inner ring. And
yet, notwithstanding the above dogma of his chief, Mr. Massey reads
me this lecture. He says: “ True, man, as man, never loses his trinity,
that is, so long as he continues a man; and it is, perhaps, partly to guard
against any apparent inconsistency, that when he has lost his trinity he is
designated no longer man, but elementary, a creature of the elements, in
whom the human spirit has no part.”
What! Does Mr. Massey mean to say that, since the spirit is said to
j) j be lost, “ as a rule,” during life, and the trinity consequently lost, that
jjj a man is to be no longer designated man when he is still in the flesh?
j j i But if he is to be designated no longer man, why does Colonel Olcott
j j j call him “ astral man,” when he has lost his trinity ? Really, if Mr.
! j j Massey’s object is not to throw a mask over the extreme opinions of his
j j j chief, in mitigation thereof, as being just a little ashamed of such out-
j I rageous ideas, I fear he has got himself into a difficulty on his own
j j j account. For to tell a man in the flesh that he is no man, merely
j)! because one has got an idea, however false it may be, that he has lost
I; j his trinity, is a somewhat unreasonable and, so to speak, a feminine
j j j aspersion. It is better to say, “ Sir, you have lost your trinity, and are no
j j gentleman.” One might then be understood, and be taken up or put
j j j down as the case might be, just as the Theosopbists take up and put
j ! down the divine spirit of man. Lord Beaconsfield says “man is
iji divine.” Really, now that former Spiritualists have grown so narrow
Ijl and Calvinistic, they might well take a lesson from the more liberal in
jjj the churches, and read Canon Farrar’s sermons, now so much in vogue,
j I especially that or those which filled the ancient Abbey of Westminster,
ijj with the unwonted sound, perhaps, even in that favoured fane of
jjl “Eternal Hope.” The sermons are published by Macmillan, under
iji that gracious title, and may be recommended as an antidote to Colonel
| j j Olcott. They'are creating a great sensation, and never would or could have
i i been preached with impunity, had it not been for the elevating,
! \ | tolerant force of Spiritualism, which has been leavening society unseen
] j | for the last thirty years, has been sent as a messenger to prepare the
' ’1 way for mercifulness in the churches, and has already made too much
headway to be swamped by the Theosophists, or any other ists whatever.
But what are we scholars to understand, when we find so much dis¬
crepancy in details among the Theosophists, and so much self-contra¬
diction in the exponents of the doctrines taught by them, concerning
this mistified, mixed, and elementary subject of “elementaries”?
What but to concur, at any rate, most heartily in what Col. Olcott has
himself most aptly and truly testified concerning them, that “ so much
has been said of them with so little understanding ” ? What, indeed,
are we to understand ? and yet on this new-fangled and ill-defined term
“elementary,” not yet two years old? on an idea entirely novel in
Europe and America, we are called upon, with the utmost effrontery, to
condemn to an impossible destiny, that of “ annihilation,” or at least to
punishment for “ an incalculable lapse of time,” a vast number of
living men and women, and all physical mediums,_who, for aught we know,
Feb. 22, 1878.
93
THE SPIRITUALIST.
may be, many of them, as respectable as their accusers; as well as to j (
condemn every single spirit—whom the Theosophist says has no spirit |)
—that puts in an appearance under physical mediumship of any and i /
every description, “from rapping to full form presentations “! robbing i
men before and after death—for man is a spirit and a spirit is a man—■ |)
of his noblest attribute, without which all is as a blank, depriving him j
of that spirit which “the learned occultist,” who is quoted with so much
respect by Mr. Massey in The Spiritualist of March 10th, 1876, alleges | j |
to be an universal gift; for does he not say, “The Hermetist, in
who sees with both eyes instead of with one only, observes that j j
each atom,” (and Colonel Olcott allows and alleges that even a departed )
“ elementary ” is matter ;) “ that each atom, no matter where found, is i j
imbued with that vital principle called spirit. Thus each grain of sand, j j j
equally with each minutest atom of the human body, has its inherent, j j
latent spark of the Divine Lightand Mr. Massey himself calls even j j
a rudimentary being a spiritual being. And, again, we have another j |
anomaly, in . which it so chances that Col. Oloott and Mr. Massey do i j
agree. They both tell us, “At birth the babe is but a duality, and j j
becomes a trinity only when reason begins to manifest itself.” So this J >
infant, which has been a rudimentary being, and as such also “ a j
spiritual being,” is now robbed of its spirit on coming into the flesh, .j j
As if, as the learned occultist informs us, “every atom of the human ! j
body’’had not “ its inherent, latent spark of the Divine Light,” the H
infant’s, as well as that of the grown man! But the above is not more ! (j
surprising than the assertion that the babe, bereft for a season of his j j
spirit that it had as a rudimentary spirit, gets it back again at the age j
of seven, or thereabouts. Just at the very time when the innocence (j
and simplicity of infancy is giving way ; when the child is willing to > I
listen to and to understand any evil that is taught him; just at the n
period, I say, when he may begin to contaminate the minds of his (|.
juniors, and the parents find that it is high time he should be sent to j j
school, the Divine Spirit comes upon the boy ! So, then, having been )!
in his pure innocence a duality, like the impure astral men, he becomes, j (j
unlike the impure astral men, suddenly, a trinity, about the time H
of his loss of innocence; the astral men losing their trinity from j i J
loss of innocence. This, again, is especially inconsistent with Mr.
Massey’s views previously expressed. Has he not given as his reason (i
for justifying the assumption that a man may lose his spirit, the plea (j
that “he has lost all sympathy with the divine spirit,” for, as Mr.
Massey adds, “ by sympathy alone is spiritual synthesis maintained.” /
And yet, only imagine a sharp young London arab; or, for that matter,
a selfish, pampered, young nobleman, keeping up a sympathy with the i
Divine spirit “ by which alonef Mr. Massey says, is spiritual synthesis /
maintained! How are the Theosophites to bolster up so grave a (
paradox as this, that the child gains the Divine spirit when he loses his j
innocence, and the evil man loses his spirit for the same cause ? Why \
may we not believe that the divine spirit is as much with the babe as (
with the man, only that it cannot manifest its intelligence through an V j
infant’s brain, and has to wait until the brain becomes, by time and (|
growth, a fitting tool for the spirit to work with? It was so with (j
Jesus, who increased in wisdom as his brain increased, and became h
capable of elaborating the wisdom which was in him before Abraham (I
existed, and was with him as a child, “Unseen, yet crescive in his (
faculty.” M. Kardec maintains, in Heaven and Hell, that a clever spirit j j
may and does sometimes inhabit the body of an idiot, but is never able to (|
manifest its intelligence, owing to the malformation of the brain. Yet (!
may the spirit be always fretting under its imprisonment, which j
imprisonment has accrued as a punishment for misused talent in a u
former life. This appeared to me quite as reasonable, and more so, than (j
taking up and dropping at convenience the divine spirit, at the caprice of [I
a brand new society, which takes its cue from the decaying teachings of (j
caste, and the dicta of the elementals. I lately visited a connection (j
whom I had not seen for many years; he was a few years back a > j
talented, hard-working lawyer, and a man of very high principle and (j
integrity. He has now been for some years a hopeless imbecile, from (j
softening of the brain. As he sat, quiet and helpless in his chair, I j
observed his eyes ; they had their old look, and were as bright and in- | (j
telligent, to all appearance, as ever. Ah! I thought, your spirit is all j
there, where it was, but it can no longer make itself intelligible through ] / j
your softeued brain. I suppose a babe’s brain is soft, and a quite unfit j (j
tool for intelligence, otherwise Jesus could not have lost his intelligence i ij
when he took upon himself the body and the brain of a babe.
I desire to call particular attention to one of the concluding sentences j (|
of Colonel Olcott’s article in The Spiritualist oi December 7th. He >
says:—“ Mediumistic physical phenomena are not produced by pure j)
spirits, but by ‘ souls ’ embodied or disembodied, and usually with the ] (j
help of elementals.” He says also:—“The whole range of physical >
phenomena, from rapping to full form presentations, are manifestations j (]
of the power of either earth-bound elementaries, helped by elementals,” j (|
to which last the Theosophists are themselves so much indebted, “or >
the souls of the mediums themselvesf that is “ souls ” who have lost )
their spirit. There is no disguising, then, that the dictum of Colonel i (
Olcott assumes every physical medium to be already an astral man—that j j
is, a mere “ soul,” ivho has already lost his trinity. The “ soul ” dis- |)
embodied, only comes through the mediumship of the “ soul ” embodied, j
his confrere. I wish all my readers to mark this well, for I regard it - j j
as a very slanderous imputation, and the natural conclusion that every j)j
one must come to who views the question rationally, I think, must be is!
this—that no convert to these views, except he be an advocate by pro- j) j
fession, can, under any circumstances, be justified in upholding j(i
table-turning, or any other physical mediumship, whether in the light isj
or in the dark; least of all, to recommend it for practice in private i) j
houses. Home mediumship— and there is a medium in about every | (i
fourth family, we are told—almost always begins with physical pheno- j > j
mena in England and America, which comes alone, the Theosophists j) j
say, from astral spirits, lost men, in the body or out of it, for whom j \ |
there is, under any circumstances, a dreadful future. Except, indeed, hi
they turn Theosophists, and doubtless many Theosophists have been
physical mediums, more or less, and already habituated to their
elementals before their conversion. To form circles at home, where
physical mediumship chiefly accrues, is to find out who are the astrals
and elementaries of the family—those wretched doomed ones!—to be
made pariahs of by the self-righteous members. And how about the
children who are so often physical mediums, and for whom also this
cruel, unwarranted, and unwarrantable future of the astral man, double
or elementary, who have lost their trinity, is allotted ? Well, one
comfort is, that if they are under seven years of age, they are but
dualities anyhow, and if they remain physical mediums can, to be
logical, never attain to a trinity at all. We see, by this alone, to what
unfathomable absurdities the doctrines of the Theosophists inevitably
lead. They sow in the whirlwind and reap in the storm; gaining their
sources of information from the wild, errant, irresponsible, mad forces
of the elements, they reap deception on every side. Making self-
righteousness their elementary principle, they gather its natural fruit—
uncharitableness. Drawing the source of their practices from the
caste-ridden exclusive Brahmins, they gain not only the opprobrium
of the liberal Buddhists, but that of all liberal-minded people. And no
one can say that the narrow, exclusive, Calvinistic assumption of the
favour of the gods held by the Brahmins, is participated in by the
generality of individuals among the Hindoo people. No, they tell a
very different story. The following is the prevailing opinion of the
Hindoos regarding the ulterior destiny of the human soul, and by which
they are apt to vex the anxious mind of the English missionary. The
Hindoo puts it thus—“ Sahib,’’ he says softly, “ yours is a good
religion.” He pauses and smiles. The missionary smiles also, and
hopes are high in his breast that he is catching a convert. But the
Hindoo continues—“If yours is a good religion, so is ours.’’ He
pauses again, and the missionary looks somewhat blank and begins to
feel rather angry, while the Hindoo continues smiling, and thus he
comes up again to the encounter—“ Sahib,” he remarks, now somewhat
pointedly, “ our religion is better than yours; we all go up there ”—he
points to the skies. “You do not; you know it, and you teach it.”
The average Hindoo, then (for the above is authentic), evidently thinks,
with Canon Farrar, that the best religion is that which is the most
hopeful for humanity, due respect being retained for justice. And I
have never yet heard that they believe felicity is to be obtained with
facility. Scrutatob.
TEST SEANCES.
Sir,—With reference to a seance with Mr. Eglinton, reported re¬
cently in The Spiritualist, will you allow me to remark that the “ tests ”
applied were really no tests at all, if, as I expect, a few inches of tape
or cord remained between the wrists of the medium. Any “ presti-
digitateur” could then produce similar manifestations, as I have already
explained in your columns.
I do not in the least mean to impute dishonesty to Mr. Eglinton, but
if tests are used at all, they should be real—otherwise, why use them ;
The stitching and sewing are quite useless : the more thoroughly they
are done, the easier it becomes to perform the trick.
It is extremely difficult to suggest anything satisfactory. I would
recommend that each of the wrists of the medium should be firmly and
closely bound to each arm of the chair, by passing fine thread (capable
of breakage by muscular exertion) round and round the wrist and the
arm of the chair : this to be firmly and tightly tied in knots, and then
sealed. If a hand then appeared, and, immediately on rushing in, the
hands of the medium were found in the same position, and the seals
and thread unbroken, it would be interesting, but care should be taken
to tie the knots extremely tightly, or the hand may be slipped out and
in again.
To persons unused to Spiritualistic manifestations, it appears “ very
suspicious ” that whenever the hands are expected to become visible, or
to play on the fairy bells, &c., Mr. Eglinton’s hands must be neces¬
sarily out of sight of the audience, and behind the curtains. Cannot
he cause these manifestations to occur when in full view of the circle,
as Mr. D. D. Home did, and without resorting to the paltry conditions
of a country conj uror ? It would be rather more convincing !
Ernest Whatley.
Chencester, January 29th, 1878.
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY?
Sir,—In justice to the memory of the late Zadkiel, and to the science
of which he was facile princeps, I trust that you will allow me to
reply to the letter of “ Fritz ” in your impression of the 15th inst.
1st. As to the personal description given by Zadkiel on the day of the
birth of H.B.H. the Prince of Wales, your correspondent will find a
full explanation given of the points in dispute at page 59 of Zadkiel's
Almanac for 1878.
2nd. As to the question of marriage. It is true that at the Prince’s
birth the moon was occidental, and |in quartile aspect to Saturn ; and
it is also true that Zadkiel quoted Ptolemy’s rule that such positions
i( generally delay marriage.” Your correspondent, however, overlooks
the important fact that the evil influence of Saturn was, at the Prince
of Wales’s birth, greatly mitigated, if not entirely overcome, by the
exact parallel of declination between that planet and Jupiter, the
latter being also elevated above Saturn. Yenus, too, receives the
application of the moon, and is very nearly in parallel declination with
that luminary ; and is, moreover, in close sextile (a benefic aspect) with
Jupiter. Most assuredly Zadkiel would never apply the rule quoted
(and which has but a general signification) to the Prince’s Nativity,
without due regard being had to the counterbalancing indications which
I have named.
3rd. In regard to the life of the mother. “ Fritz ” quotes the general
rule that, if Saturn be in quartile to the moon at birth, as at the Prince
94
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 22, 1878.
of Wales’s Nativity, the life of the mother will be short. Bat he
overlooks the fact that Ptolemy and Zadkiei state that the moon and
Venus are allotted to the mother. At the Prince’s birth Yenus is
most powerfully situated, in Libra, her own “house,” and in sextile to
Jupiter; which positions are amply sufficient to overpower the evil
influence of Saturn in quartile to the moon. One effect, however, of
the aspect last-named has already been fulfilled, for it was an aphorism
(compiled in the fifteenth century) of Regiomontanus that such a
position indicates the widowhood of the mother. A well-known
London physician was born at 7h. a.m. of August 11th, 1815, and the
moon was then (in Scorpio) in square aspect to Saturn (in Aquarius).
He married in his twenty-third year. His mother lived to a
ripe old age, but she was left a widow for thirty-four years—Yenus
was in conjunction with Jupiter.
4th. As to the description of the wife. “ Fritz ” makes an extra¬
ordinary blunder in writing of “ Saturn in Gemini,” whereas Saturn
was in Capricorn at the Prince’s birth. As the moon applies to
Venus (we must dismiss the quartile of Saturn, for that can have no
part or lot either as a significator or promoter of marriage), we should
take Venus in Libra to describe the wife, and if we turn to page 32 of
the first volume of the Handbook of Astrology, we shall find (mixing
it with Yenus in aspect to Jupiter) a very good personal description of
the charming Princess of Wales.
The lord of the seventh house has nothing to do with marriage
unless posted in the seventh. “ Fritz ” should read Wilson’s remarks
upon lordships of houses in nativities. Much error has crept in by
reason of the mixing of horary (or symbolical) with genethliacal astro*
logy; an error which Zadkiei ever avoided, and cautioned his readers
against.
The sign on the seventh house frequently has some relation to the
description of the partner in marriage, but not always.
In conclusion, I may be allowed to observe that very great ex¬
perience is necessary before safe deductions can be drawn from
nativities ; and, therefore, it is not justifiable on the part of a tyro to
call in question the ability of the most able exponents of astrology
because of a fancied discrepancy between the rules given in a mere
handbook and an exceptional nativity, such as the one in question.
The relative positions of the heavenly bodies are so frequently
changing (and seldom recur), that no laws unalterable as those of the
Medes and Persians can be laid down in judicial astrology. Much
must still be left to the experience and calm judgment of the philo¬
sopher who seeks the truth. Alfred J. Pearce.
3, Oedars-terrace, Qaeen’s-road, Olapham, S.W., Feb. 18th, 1878.
PH’J SICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—At Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s seance, on Saturday evening
last, Mr. Eglinton being the medium, the manifestations, although pro¬
duced seemingly under difficulties, were powerful and convincing.
Yarious lights floated about, among them the names of “Joey” and
“Elizabeth ” in letters of starlight; likewise, twice was presented to us,
a white luminous cross, said to convey a prophetic meaning, which was
not revealed, although earnestly solicited. The sitters were told by
“ Joey ” to remember, when they all knew, as they would eventually,
the reason for its appearance, that they had seen it thus foreshadowed,
and were to take care that it did not press heavily upon some.
This was regarded generally with awe, and by some as a presage of
a coming cross, which, as a sorrow, must be borne by all; but, as its
light exceeded in brilliancy all the other appearances of a like character,
it may equally be suggestive of its triumphant appearance, when all
shall mourn who are not prepared to rejoice at the events, which its
manifestation in glory will bring upon the earth. Joey gave us some
music by means of a mouth organ belonging to the medium, who
talked during the performance. Physical exhibitions of strength
abounded ; an arm-chair was placed in the centre of the table
at which we sat, carried over our heads by the spirits around
us; heavy furniture was displaced, and direct spirit-writing
given in the darkness, the previously lowered gas having
been finally extinguished by invisible agency ; but there was a spirit of
opposing influence, clairvoyantly visible to one of the sitters at the com¬
mencement of the seance, which, though speedily vanished by prayer, j
left its effect upon the best efforts of the presiding powers. Neverthe- I
less, the form of Ernest floated amongst us at intervals, bearing his
usual light, rising to the ceiling and sinking through the floor, or fading
from our view by concealing his light, but he did not manifest himself
with his accustomed power or brilliant appearance. Joey likewise
materialised in the darkness, and, although invisible, gave satisfactory
proofs of his bodily presence. A powerful and convincing test was
given by him to one of the sitters. Many hands, varying in strength
and texture, conversed with us by signs and touches, and ample proofs
were afforded to satisfy all but those who fain would see the manifesta¬
tions invariably up to the level of perfection.
“Joey ” expressed himself as greatly disappointed ; he was amusingly
angry with his medium for having given a previous stance that after¬
noon ; but he was clearly sad at failing to produce some special manifes- j
tation upon which he was bent, and seemed to express his dissatisfac¬
tion by audible, but good-natured, blows upon the body of his uncon¬
scious medium, who was lying entranced in our midst.
Some weeks ago Joey warned us that a strong combination was being
organised to disturb these seances, and as the clairvoyant, before referred j
to as seeing an opposing influence, described a circle of serpents linked
together above the heads of the sitters, so real in appearance that he j
seemed to feel them touching him, it appears probable that, although
speedily driven away, the band of opposers to manifestations of an elevat- |
ing nature had succeeded somewhat in marring the efforts of those sent i
to minister to our spiritual enlightenment.
George M. Sutherland. I
117, Sloane.street, London. ‘
MATERIALISATION phenomena.
Sir,—I think that the human spirit, which, after shedding its fleshy
or earthy tabernacle, wishes to reclothe its spirit form (the exact
counterpart of the mundane form, only more sublimated), must, owing
to its want of a material, or physical stomach, do so by some vicarious
process, as the spiritual stomach cannot assimilate the various elements
of the mineral, vegetable, and animal kingdom, for the formation of
pabulum suitable for forming human flesh. A spirit was once a human
being, and is only one step in advance of its rudimentary form, just as
the grub is the rudimentary chrysalis, which, in turn, becomes
metamorphosed into a lovely butterfly.
Spirits tell us this themselves, and our own clairvoyants corroborate
them, for they all tell us that they can see the shadowy or spirit forms
moving about, and often manipulating the sitters en seance, as mes¬
merists would do.
"When spirit people want to show themselves in a reincarnated body,
they require suitable elements, so that their sublimated or refined
bodies can assimilate them to their forms, consequently they can only
obtain such elements from some human fountain, for like attracts like.
A magnet will attract iron, steel, nickel, and perhaps a few more sub¬
stances, because there is a strong affinity, or attractive power, between
them; but try wood or stone instead, and you will find the attraction
ceases for want of affinity.
This illustration holds good with the human spirit; it requires the
most refined or spiritualised psychic pabulum to reclothe its spirit
body with flesh, and this can only be obtained from some human
being. So, by affinity, and the will-power of spirits, their invisible
bodies are msAQ positive to the elements "given off by the medium, who
is in a negative state, and by this means the spirit body absorbs the
psjchic molecules, and, when attracted in sufficient quantity, they
become condensed on the spirit form, which, when solid enough,
exactly resembles the material (flesh) to which it owes its existence.
In many cases the spirits absorb a great deal more than is given off
from mediums by involuntary action ; in that case it is at the expense
of the medium ; but when the spirit allows-its temporary fleshly body
to disintegrate, these elements are, by an endosmose action, reabsorbed
into the depleted body of the materialising sensitive. Were this
not the case the sensitive would be in danger of violent physiological
disturbances, which might throw the entire system into some abnormal
state, perhaps terminating in collapse, as was the case with Miss Wood,
of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, when undergoing some experiments a few
years ago with a professor in his sanctum sanctorum. The case bears
so much on my own theory that I cannot refrain from stating the
facts: —
Miss Wood having been engaged by the professor to visit his place
for experimenting, was positively sewed up in a hammock, her head
and neck being the only parts of the body free. This securely done,
she was suspended from the ceiling by a pair of steelyards, the hook of
them being hooked through the hammock, and leaving her suspended
about twelve or fourteen inches from the ground, dangling like a
slaughtered sheep, perfectly helpless but out of sight of the sitters,
being behind an improvised cabinet, in the shape of a curtain suspended
across the room. The steelyards were so suspended that they commu¬
nicated the exact weight of the medium—seven stone—to a circular
indicator which was in sight of the professor and the other friends
with him, so that any alteration in the weight of the medium would at
once be detected.
The light having, by request of the spirits, been lowered in order to
facilitate operations, after some thirty or forty minutes those present
distinctly saw and heard a human form moving about the room as if
floating, and, on being requested, it moved sundry articles of furniture ;
it also answered questions by motions of its head, as it had not sufficient
power to speak distinctly. All this time the professor and his friends
had the circular d sc in full view, and noticed that it indicated the
weight, gradually decreasing till the pointers remained at four stone.
This was when the figure had thoroughly formed itself.
This circumstance sorely puzzled the investigators, for they saw that
there was evidently some very close sympathy between the spirit-form
and the suspended medium, for, on the spirit gradually becoming
invisible, they found that the indicator began to register an in¬
crease of weight, till it stopped at seven stone, the normal weight of
the medium.
During one of these series of experiments, whilst the spirit-form was
walking about and doing sundry things with the furniture, a bell sud¬
denly rang, which the janitor thought was from the professor, and
hurried to his room, and the door unfortunately having been left
unlocked, he entered suddenly with his light, which brightly illumi¬
nated the partially lighted room, and caused a fearful perturbation, for
no sooner was the door opened and the light admitted, than the medium
gave a fearful scream, the figure at the same time making a rush for
the curtain. On instantaneously examining the medium she was found
sewed up and suspended just as they left her, but instead of being
awake was found to be in a kind of tit, which proved to be cataleptic,
for she remained in that unconscious state for nearly three days before
she was sufficiently recovered from the shock to be able to speak, and
fully six weeks elapsed before she recovered her normal state.
I heard this latter statement, in reference to her going into a fit,
corroborated by her own spirit guides during the time I had some ex¬
periments with her for materialisation, and by some of my own Cape
Town spirit friends, whom I'•recognised.
Messrs. Hare, Mould, and Armstrong, will recollect my sitting
with them with the Psychological Society’s committeei in June last
year; my kind friend Mr. Eno was present on both occasions.
I think this fact throws much light on my theory of temporary re¬
incarnation. Man being a microcosm, contains all the elements in his-
system that are found on this mundane sphere, and it is proved that he
can assimilate the most deadly poisons when taken in minute quan-
Feb. 22, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
95
titles. This being so, the spirit, who is an objective invisible entity,
through a vicarious stomach absorbs the fleshy molecules given ofl
freely by a materialising medium; and if, unfortunately, during the
process of materialisation, the conditions be suddenly interfered with,
the elements that should by affinity be reabsorbed into the body of the
sensitive, are suddenly precipitated by the action of light, and not
allowed to pass into the medium’s body by the ordinary process of
absorption; the result is fearful bodily disturbance.
Dr. Monck's “ familiar ” Sami. Wheeler, on my telling him my
theory, corroborated all I said when I was en siance in Dr. Brown’s
house, Burnley, 18th June last. There I obtained the grandest
demonstrations of the facts of spirit communion, as reported in your
issue of July 6th, 1877, having had direct slate-writing on my own
brand new slates, which never went out of my sight or hands, from my
own child, who also materialised, then came and touched me, and took
a small bell out of my hand to convince me that I and the others were
not looking at some subjective form. Samuel Wheeler also played the
piano in the light, for I saw, felt, and heard the notes, and observed
the synchronous motion between the movement and sound of the keys
and strings, Dr. Monck being held hand and foot all the time.
Berks T. Hutchinson.
Cape Town, South Africa, Jan. 21st, 1878.
MADAME BLAVATSKY.—SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY IN PARIS.
Sib,—Although I have said so much about that wonderful woman,
Madame Blavatsky, who, I understand, is soon to pass through England
on her way (back) to the Far East, I wish to tell a little more about her.
If she stops at all in London, you cannot make too much of her, for I
do not think you Londoners will ever look upon her like again. My
belief is that she is a priestess of Buddhism on a missionary visit to
the Occident, whose dust she is now only anxious to shake from her
feet. She created in New York the <l Theosophical Society,” of which
that honest, genial, and first-rate man, Colonel Olcott, is the president,
she being only the modest “ secretary.” She has also created, through
epistolary correspondence, a nucleus or branch society in your London.
And they press close around (and with a natural, perhaps, too consider¬
able, an influence) your 38, Great Russell-street. She and I from the
first took well and kindly to each other. One can talk to her as to a
man, and to a strong man, and she will talk back like a man, and like a
man whom you feel inclined to recognise as greatly superior to yourself
in vast and varied learning, even while you cannot quite abdicate your¬
self. I think she would have liked to draw me into “ Theosophy,” but
I said that I was a traveller on the wing, absorbed with cares and
concerns and duties (to others) of a different order, and that if I was
ever to study out and into and through their “ Theosophy,” it must be
at some more auspicious future period. She paid me, what was from
her, the compliment of saying that I was “ a natural-born Buddhist.”
To which I replied that I was content to be only a humble and very
unworthy “ Christian,” according to that essential Christianity of Christ
Himself, as I understood it, and as contradistinguished from the
ecclesiastical, theological, dogmatic, so-called u Christianity ” which
priesthoods (Catholic and Protestant) had made it. I also admitted that
in the thousands of years even of the historic period before the birth of
our Lord and Saviour, there may have been similar or analogous anterior
Messiahships, all derived from the same One Source, to diverse ages,
countries, and climes, according to their needs, such as those of a
Chrishna, a Buddha, a Confucius, a Zoroastor, to say nothing of other
less grand figures in legend or history (in regard to whom it is wonderful
that Virgin Conception and birth is claimed alike for all!)—sent to
preach the same two fundamental ideas, on which hang all the law and
the prophets, namely, the Fatherhood of One God, and the Brother¬
hood of all men, to illustrate them by their lives and their deaths, and
to “ save ” mankind by the influence of their examples of all the virtues.
On another piece of common ground there was room for both our feet.
She admitted the occasional real communication of the spirits of our
departed relatives and friends with us, just as the Hindoos
assign a considerable part in their supernatural phenomena to
the Pitris, or spirits of ancestors.” When I told her that I could
never give into their “Theosophio” opposition to our “Modern
Spiritualism,” because X knew that I had communicated with
my mother (to say nothing of others), in true and real and certain
personal identity, and that I would now willingly surrender life and all
rather than give up that blessed certainty, which involved everything, I
gave her the particulars, to which she listened attentively. She admitted
that she believed that in that case it was really my mother, but she
added that such a case was rare, and she held to her general denun¬
ciation of modern stances and mediums, physical,) materialising, and
others, as, for the most part, false and fraudulent, i.e,, as the work of
low and lying spirits “ elementary” or “ elemental.” With some direc¬
tions of larger divergence, we thus had common ground enough to stand
upon with reasonable understanding and sympathy. Kindness on her
part, politeness, and on mine real affectionate liking and profound
respect, did the rest. I do not feel bound by evidence to accept their
“ Theosophisiic ” or “ Occultist” theory that the marvels or “ miracles ”
which certainly do take place through them, are the work of their will
or their psychic power, cultured and developed into “ adeptship,” and
able to command the work and service of obedient, soulless spirits of
an order lower than humanity. I do not pretend to deny it (who and
what are any of us to pretend to set bounds to the possibilities of the
infinite unknown?), but, so far as at present advised, I can reconcile all
their phenomena with the positive and certain facts of our “ Modern
Spiritualism,” by assuming that they, the “ adepts,” are cultured and
highly developed mediums, far superior to the general run of ours
through their education, their thousands of years old traditions,
their ascetic purity of life, and their high, spiritualised condition; and
that attendant spirits may do for them in response to their
I thought and wish, the things they fancy that they themselves
) j do through commanding force of their human will or power. Witness,
|| for instance, the marvellous things that this spirit, so-called “John
) I King,” performs for the Count de Bullet, through or with the
(| aid of the good medial conditions which happen to exist in the
(•: organism of Firman. The Count never wills nor commands anything,
) I and yet these marvellous things take place. Attendant spirits, who one
(| and all claim to have lived in the flesh, do them, spontaneously, of whom
S | “ John King ” seems to be the master of ceremonies ; and in the accom-
) | plishment of those marvellous things figure some spirits confessedly
(| of a much higher degree or sphere than himself at his present
Sj stage of progress; whom he helps to produce the manifestations,
) I through the possession of a “fluidic force” derived from the fact of
(| his being, while a good, yet a less elevated or advanced spirit than they;
11 of his being more in or near to the material or earth-plane than they;
) | of his having therefore connecting relations with matter which they
c | have not, which they would seem to have risen above. They cannot,
S| for instance, speak, yet “John King” and the “ little Indian ” can do
) I so with .great volubility, and the former often with great strength of the
(| vocal organs. “ Glaucus ” and my mother have several times tried
|j hard to speak close to my ear, and yet they could only utter a few
) i whispered sounds, in which I could catch a single word here and there,
(i and nothing more (in the case of “ Glaucus ” it was Latin; in the
$ i case of my mother, it was the word “ Herbert,” the name of
) | a brother of mine, long ago deceased). Only once has “ Glaucus ”
(i been able to whisper three consecutive words, and my mother only
i i twice; both under strong stress of motive to speak. And yet, I repeat,
) j “ John King” and the “Little Indian” can generally speak with great
< i freedom and force, either seriously, or about nothing, or good-natured
| i fun or nonsense. It seems that the lower can do things which the
) | higher cannot; those things being manifestations in what we may call
(i the material plane. And yet the higher desire to do them—strive to do
) i them—for the sake of those here in the flesh whom they still love, but
) | need the help of the lower to be able to do them, and are grateful for
(| that help; while the lower, a “ John King,” an “Ernest,” a “Joey,”
i( | or a “Lillie,” actuated by the best of feelings towards them and
i) j towards us, seems to be a sort of manager of matters, a sort of stage-
j(! manager, to “ bring forward” the others, to work the wondrous chemis-
K | try of materialisation for them, of the collection of the invisible actinic
j) | light by means of which they can be photographed, &c., &c. Most of
I (] the good mediums seem to have such a stage-manager, as it were. It
j)l was so in California. It is so here. It seems to be so in England.
j)j This is a curious point in the observation of seances. These workers
II i seem to be, I repeat, to be good spirits, labouring to progress by good
j j I work and service in a good cause, possessing a “ fluidic force ” greater
|)! than that of spirits in spheres higher away from the material plane,
jj | and possessing it for the very reason that they are still nearer to, or
I | move in, that material plane.
|) i Jan. 28.—Another beautiful photograph of “ Angela ” to-day, perhaps
u the best yet obtained. Again a failure for my mother, though “Alex-
i(j andrine ” had tried to “help her.” A fresh flower (a camellia) was
J brought this morning for “Angela,” and in the photograph it duly
i (| appeared in her bosom. We had also asked her to pose this time less
is | draped up to her throat. She accordingly appears in the picture as
j)i reasonably decolletee, showing her beautifully shaped shoulders and
i (! throat, and also the gold chain and turquoise cross given to her by the
j s | Count some three years ago, which we have often seen her wear in
i 11 materialisations.
j j | There occurred to-day the following little incident, perhaps worth
| S | mentioning. John King had remarked on his always finding a pin in
|) | the gauze veil, put into the cabinet to be used by the spirits in their
j (I telegraphic poses (this pin was put in by Mrs. Firman, when she would
m afterwards fold up the six metres of fine stuff, so as to bind it together
0! into small volume). This led to this colloquy between me and John:—
( “ Do you mean that you prick your fingers with the pin when yon open
j the stuff?”—“No, I always see it.”—“But if you should happen to
|)i overlook it, would it prick your finger and hurt you?’’—“ Oh, no.”—
( “ Well, I don’t suppose you are materialised there as you are when you
|(i come out to us, and shake our hands with a strong, warm, cordial hand
|) | like our own ; but when you do thus take our hands with yours, which
III feels as natural and life-like as our own, would the prick of a pin or a
| {j cut or wound hurt you then, as it would us ?”—“ No, you could not hurt
j) j me.”—“ A case is recorded as having taken place in America, in which
|( | a rifle-ball was fired at a materialised spirit.”—“ Yes, and you are quite
ijj welcome to do the same to me. It won’t hurt me.” We all disclaimed
!) j any willingness to do such a thing. But he was quite persistent, and
jc | seemed to urge us to do it. “ I will come out before you with my light,
| and you may fire as many shots into me as you like. They won’t hurt me.”
j) j He tried to persuade us to it. We all three replied that we could not
UI bear that even in imagination. I said, “But when you, as is sometimes
j 1 the case, take out from the medium’s organism to help make up your
|)i own materialisation, might not a pistol shot into you then hurt him ?”
j | —“ In that case, it might, but it should only be done when I am fully
i) | prepared. Then you might fire a cannon-ball into me, and I should not
i)j care.” We all recoiled from the idea. And yet what would there be
\l\ in it after all worse than our having witnessed “ Angela ’’for the first time
i) | plunge her lovely young girl face into paraffin, at the temperature of
j) ! almost boiling water ? It was a horrid and truculent act, as once really
K | done in America (at St. Louis, I believe), because it was in pursuance
j) of a challenge by a sceptic, and, therefore, involved his willingness to
j) | fire into what he believed to be a man personating a materialised spirit.
j< | But it was actually done with a rifle placed on a rest, in exact line of
ivj aim. If there were any worthy and adequate object to be attained, I
j) | should not shrink from pulling the trigger now, in response to John’s
K | repeated invitations. If, for example, the Academy of Sciences of Paris,
|)j the Boyal Society of London, &c. (including disbelieving professors),
|(| would attend the “execution,” on their own premises and under their
96
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 22, 1878
own management, and then bind themselves to sign a full retractation of
their present fanaticism of incredulity, and to ugive in to spirits’’
(under penalty of facing a similar pistol-shot for every learned scientist
who should refuse to sign), then I might be willing to accept John King’s
proposition, and I have sufficient faith and conviction to be able to do
so without a tremor of nerve, or a shadow of doubt as to the result.
But for a mere superfluous test experiment, for us who need no such
further evidences (to be written to The Spiritualist, and to be related to
people who will not believe, “ even though one should rise from the
dead ”), I decline to pull that foolish trigger, even on John King’s own
invitation.
T'eh. 3.—Through the past week we have had splendid success in our
photography in the dark. We have got several fine pictures of
“ Glaucus.” His was a success on the first day of his posing (Jan. 30).
It presents the same seraphic face as in the bust. Every day there is
variation in the pose and accessories. A large and handsome plain gold
cross had been given to him at the beginning of the seance on that 30th
Jan. by one of our number (we are three). This had been done in
pursuance of his expression of a wish for a cross, through the voice of
John King. This cross appears in all the pictures, not hanging from
his neck by his chain, but affixed to some part of his drapery as a sort
of badge. The distribution of the drapery, and the quantity and parts
of the shoulders and bust shown, differ in all of them, as also the direc¬
tion in which the face is turned. In one of these (that of yesterday)
both forms appear, standing side by side, that of “ Glaucus ” and that of
Angela,” both beautiful indeed. There had been a similar one the
day before, but the plate got broken in the course of the development,
which always takes place at once on the spot. The pictures are often
very slow in coming out; once it was forty-two minutes. The poses are
now of about forty-five seconds to two minutes. It is John King who
always directs when to uncap and recap the camera. We were told
that there was great distress amongst the invisible one present when the
plate got broken; but they promised to try to repeat the picture next
day. ” Angela ” always exhibits some or others of the flowers (natural
ones, namely, three roses, a camellia, and several sprigs of narcissus),
which have been given her, and which they say-they preserve unfaded,
distributed in her hair or about her person. Yesterday we observed on
the developed plate what seemed quite different flowers or leaves, fring¬
ing, as it were, the upper edge of her drapery, across her bosom. She
often writes after the seance through the hand of Mrs. Firman. As the
latter sat down for that purpose I asked “ Angela ” where those flowers
had come from. She wrote that she made them from the roses which
had been given to her last week. We always now lay in the cabinet,
two or three long pieces of gauze stuff, which the spirits employ very
gracefully in their poses, and then leave in a heap on the floor where
they had stood. Sometimes they throw them to us. On two occasions
we were directed to keep in our laps, and hold firmly, the drapery
during the pose. Yet a double of the drapery appeared in the pictures
just as when they employ the original pieces. Compare this with the
facts mentioned in my last about the spirit ability to reproduce material
articles from “the essence” of other ones, and particularly the incident
of the two oriental handkerchiefs at Madame Blavatsky’s.
Will any of my friends about 38, Great Russell-street cling still to
the marble or plaster cast theory as to the origin of the paraffin moulds
and busts, when we have so many variations, repetitions, in photography
of “Angela” and “Glaucus,” the same as in their busts, yet never
identical from one day to another ?
One little circumstance may be worth noting. In all our seances
Firman is in a trance sleep, lying on a mattress in the cabinet. A few
mesmerising passes from the Count suffice to throw him into and
reawaken him from that condition. We have observed that his trance
is evidently much deeper—that he is much further gone in trance—at
these photographic seances than ever before. It is real, hard, and
protracted work for the Count to get him back, and he wakes in a state
of utter daze. It is some time before he can sit up. When lifted to
his seat on the mattress, if not held up from behind, he will instantly
fall back, having no power to keep himself erect. He is evidently
heavily drawn upon when “ John King” has to do the double work of
materialising the spirit forms and making the (to us invisible) light for
the photography. He has said that he gets it chiefly out of the medium’s
brain. Does the phosphorus in the brain play any part in this opera¬
tion ? “ John King,” in reply to a question, admitted that it had
something to do with it. You will remember how often we have wit¬
nessed the fading light of his well-known “ lamp ” revive and brighten
as he will apply it to the head of the Count, who is very mesmeric. An
English reader wrote me last week how the idea had occurred to him that
perhaps light might be got by spirits out of the brains of animals just
killed, and that he took that of a bullock, placed in a basin, to the
medium Williams, whose familiarly known spirit Joey did exhibit a
considerable body of light just above the basin, which was reflected in
the chimney-glass, and which lasted over an hour, when “ Joey ” said
they could not get any more light out of it. My correspondent suggested
our making trial of that as an experiment in our photography, in the
hope of its economising the available “ power,” so as to enable more of
it to be utilised in the materialisation, as distinct from the light-pro¬
duction. But John King did not receive the suggestion with favour.
“ Yes,” he said, “ it is a matter of brains, but human brains, not those
of dead animals.” I understand that he has since expressed at Wil¬
liams’s a willingness to try the experiment.
No success yet with the promised photograph of my mother, notwith¬
standing daily attempts. Only an occasional slight, confused impres¬
sion on the plate. But the same was the case at first with “ Angela ”
and “ Alexandrine,” who now come splendidly, and without fail. On
the 13th December “Angela” wrote that she was “ quite discouraged;”
but she was made to persevere.
More in a few days. J. L, O’Sullivan.
Paris, Feb, 4.
THE SCIENCE OP MAN AND MIND.
“ My brain I’ll prove the female to my soul;
My soul the father ; and these two beget
A generation of still breeding thoughts.
And these same thoughts people this little world
In humours like the people of this world ;
For no thought is contented.”—Shakspeare.
Sir,—It seems to me that we have not as yet made one step in
advance in respect to the philosophy of man—or, I should rather say,
of mind—for no one as yet has been able to demonstrate what the soul
is, and, therefore, we cannot possibly know what is its function and
field of operation in the body. Some believe that there is a body, soul,
and mind ; others that the soul and mind are one and the same; whilst
those who regard the mind as mere perception or state of consciousness,
refer it to an Ego—either a thinking substance we call brain, or to a
thinking substance we call soul. Professor Tyndall talks of a chasm
between thought and substance which we cannot bridge over. An
“ asses’ bridge ” indeed, since it supposes sensation to be an entity
separate from that which feels, which is nonsense. Now, no one, by
taking thought, can find out God; and no one—no, not all mankind
combined—by taking thought, can create a science of mind. The
science of mind must be pursued after the same method that has been
found successful in every other department. I-care nothing about
what this person thinks or that person said, but, as in a court of law,
I demand evidence and proof. The pious Schlegel, in his philosophy of
life, says—“ The existence of the brutes is simple, because in them the
soul is completely mixed up and merged in the organic body, and is
one with it; on the destruction of the latter it reverts to the elements,
or is absorbed in the general soul of nature.” And again—“ Triple is
the nature of man, but fourfold is the human consciousness ; for spirit
or mind, like the soul, divides and falls asunder, or, rather, is split and
divided into two powers or halves : the mind, namely, into under¬
standing and will; the soul into reason and fancy.” Now, I do but
give this nonsense as an example, from a clever man, of the wrong
method ; what I may call the thinking-it-out-method ; in a word,
metaphysics, which mostly ends in some sort of idealism, ignoring the
evidence of the senses. Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.  
MORE FREEDOM FOR WOMEN.
Sir,—The Women’s Suffrage Journal for January says:—“ The
penalties and disabilities imposed on wives by the English marriage law
are such as to render the position of a woman who cohabits with a man
safer and better, both as regards the ownership of her property, and the
custody and maintenance of her children, than if she were legally
married; and so long as this barbarous and disgraceful law is maintained,
it is probable that there will be a large and increasing number of women
who will refuse to subject themselves to its provisions.”
Observer.
February 11th.  
A CASE OF DISTRESS.
Sir,—Will you kindly insert the following in The Spiritualist:—
Mr. and Mrs. Hocker (well-known workers in the cause of Spirit¬
ualism) are in very needy circumstances just now. Owing to their
illness he is unable to attend to his business as bootmaker. They
are afraid of having their home broken up, unless a few kind friends
will assist them in their hour of need. Sums, however small, I am
sure, would be gratefully received by them ; or, if sent to me, I will at
once forward them the amounts. Mr. Hooker’s address is 33, Henry-
street, Portland-town, London. Et.tzarf.ttt Cowper.
388, Edgware-road, London, W., Feb. 15th, 1878.
Major Thomas Gales Forster and Dr. J. M. Peebles will, next
Sunday evening, at seven o’clock, deliver addresses in Doughty Hall.
Mr. William White will preside.
The following extraordinary item of news in the Boston (U.S.)
Sunday Herald of February 3rd last, is without foundation in fact:—■
“ Miss Showers, the well-known English medium for form manifesta¬
tions, has just been married to Captain John James, of Tottenham.”'
Spiritualism in Dalston.—The ordinary monthly meeting of the
council of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism was
held on Thursday evening, last week, at 53, Sigdon-road, Hackney
Downs, E., under the presidency of Mrs. Corner. There were also
present Mrs. Wood, Messrs. J. Tozeland, R. Pomeroy Tredwen, and
T. Blyton. Letters of general interest were read from Mr. C. C.
Massey, Mr. T. Catmur, Dr. Monck, and Mr. Edwin Dottridge.
Messrs. J. R. Williams and W. Langham Millard were elected ordinary
members, and Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen was re-elected-representative
on the council of the British National Association of Spiritualists for
the current year. A letter of resignation of membership from Miss
Jennie Pope was “ accepted with regret.” The cash accounts were
submitted and passed, and a renewal order given for the Banner of
Light for the reading room table. Messrs. G. R. Tapp and R. Pearce
were appointed to act as a committee to value the stock of the asso¬
ciation, in pursuance of their suggestion on auditing the 1877 accounts.
A subscription arrangement for procuring a copy of Isis Unveiled for
the library was approved. Mrs. Corner was elected to the presidency,
and Mr.-R. Pomeroy Tredwen to the vice-presidency of the associa¬
tion. The February agenda was submitted and confirmed. Letters
were read from Mr. D. G. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., consenting to
read a paper; and Mr. T. L. Nichols, M.D., offering to narrate a
“ Ghost Story” ; it was agreed to fix the 4th and 18th March next
as dates for Mr. Fitz-Gerald’s paper and Dr. Nichol’s narrative
respectively. The council then adjourned.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A correspondent writes from Bath, expressing a regret that photographic
likenesses of Madame Blavatsky are not purchasable in this country.
Feb. 22, 1878.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of "W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn ifrom
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s,
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. "W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spirituahsm. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton- 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 15s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
offamous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morais. and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents; The
Anti-Supcrnaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit? and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell>
7s Od.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • "these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the midiumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation Is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a|trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10a. od.; cheap edition,
7s. ud.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumsliip of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD,'by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book censists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Bddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiraum-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (.Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6<1
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. Od.
STATUVOLENCE : OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. ed.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ol Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d. '
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. Cd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.-
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature's Divine Revelations . . . . .15 0
The Physician. Yoi. I. Gt. Harmonia . ..76
The Teacher. ,, II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. ,; . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .86
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . • . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . , .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology . . . . .30
Morning Lectures . , . . . . .76
iii
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s di
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . , 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieitualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . ... 5 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-xun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind;; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
e'anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, *
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . ■ . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed,
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description oj Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Otheb
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to he
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion dow rnon-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 /or Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6<A, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age."
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “HeavenOpened.” The two parts bound in one volume.
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb, 22, 1878,
A NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATUBE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
LORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various fonns of indigestion, use END’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Rimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. END’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EYERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
ONO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
-JM “Since I have used END’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.'—A Lady writes: —
I “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
JUNO’S FRUIT SALT,
GENERA!, LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
5s the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery, it is beyond
praise.  
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent lorm.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
[ the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease :—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bougntit. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my^riends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please—I am,
dear sir, yaurs respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett.”
Aug. 80, 1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—End’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for -Pam—PH ARMACIE DE BERAL, 1 RUE DE
LA PAIX,
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly silt*
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
' Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Sdng of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!"—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
the Newspaper
Castle.—6. The
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw ’BalladsNo; one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with, an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.” ;
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured."
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that th'e work is published ‘ a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.” •
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The. Spiritualist,. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay Of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some o(. The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of BarhdSn himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast). «
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive, comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want In The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of Its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appej.ed in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
anl fvhich created such a furore at the time.” [A./i. An
ire.it member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
AY. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, London, AV.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
i the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-AValkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various AYays—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent AVill; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the AYaking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic AVam-
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision-wDuration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—^Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or AVaking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at AVill by the Subjects—CoL Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S ii ritual
AVorld.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals —SnaU Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^-Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised AVater—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiologieal, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Sub'eet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and AVitchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER, XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persous in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments AVith and AVithout Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or AVaking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised AVater
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion In the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in-the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance-Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV :—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVICurative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great.Russell-street, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Brvrridgb & Co., at the
Holhom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Avo
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
