Registered as a newspaper.
dlbrst i^ttos^a^er MiJ Spiritualism m feat ^ritaiu.
NO. 364. (VOL. XV.—No. 7.) LONDON: FRIDAY, AUGUST 15, 1879. Published Weekly ; Price Twopence.
SANITAS, THE HEALTH GIVER;
Or, the Pine Forest ai Home.
SANITAS IS SOLD IN FLUID, POWDER AND SOAPS,
SANITAS FLUID, Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d. in Bottles. By tlie Gallon at 20s., and 5s. It is the best fluid disinfectant, preventative of
contagion, and preservative of Meat, Fish, &c. Applied to the Bath, it improves the health by purifying the tissues and pores of the
skin, giving natural'beauty and colour to the complexion.
SANITAS TOILET POWDER in Is. Boxes is far superior to any of the so-called Violet Powders ; it is perfectly free from all
mineral and poisonous ingredients; improves the complexion, and softens the skin.
SANITAS TOILET SOAP is a beautiful transparent soap, containing a large percentage of Sanitas. It effectually softens and
improves the skin, and gives natural health and colour to the complexion.
SANITAS HOUSEHOLD SOAPS, sold in Gd. and id. Bars, is excellently suited for cleaning and disinfection, whitens and
purifies linen goods.
TOILET SANITAS FLUID, in Is., and 2s. Gd. Bottles, is a beautifully perfumed Fluid, having all the properties of the ordinary
Sanitas in a more agreeable and fragrant form. Specially adapted as a mouth wash, and for spraying rooms, use in finger glasses, &c;
SANITAS DISINFECTING POWDER.
SANITAS TOOTH POWDER, and the several productions of the Company, to be had at the
Oompaiiy’s
4, MILDMAY GROVE, HIGHBURY, LONDON, N*
CAUTION.—All Articles bear the Company's Trade Mark and Seal, icithout which none are genuine.
Chemists and the Trade Supplied.
Now Ready. »
The THIRD EDITION of VoU I. of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
lECHAnSI OF IAN.
Price 10s. Gd.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism in Action;*
may be had, price 12s. Gd. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. Gd.
Longman and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just Published. »
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN. THE LI&HTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spintualists.
JAIES IALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for dash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
11
THE SPIRITTTALIST.
Aug. 15, 1879,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Sqitare, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
. in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K, MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W;
ALLAN KARDEC (Blachwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRiTS’ ROOK (ISoB). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand,
IIE A YEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand,
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner and Co., London.
 --■■■■■■■ :     ■■■-■■ *•:'   ■ : ..,
Just Published.
SPIRIT - IDENTITY.
By “M.A, (Oxon.).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post ftee.
The Syriritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-StrOet, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Eive Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : its Place and Function
—Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Revelation—Christianity : its Place and Human Elements.
Londph: Trubner and Co,, 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
mesmerism, with hints for beginners.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thifty years' experience in Mesnierisih.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Miiseilm-street, London, W.C.
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &o.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. BAKRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 30, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
]V(R. C.. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till, 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
N.B.—Mr. Williams's temporary address during
alterations in the above premises is 13, Milman-strcet,
W.C, (comer of new Qrmond-street).,
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Sunday),
.Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every. Sunday night.
MR. F. 0MERIISf,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, llheumatiism, and/ other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERlN,
s, Northumberland street, strand,
   LONDON.  '
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
IG4, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Church (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can he built up in a short
time, acute cases cured iu a few minutes, all pangs,
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MRS. A. KIMBALL,
Somnambulic mesmerist and medium,
Receives daily from 11 to 5 (except Sunday), at 26,
Montague-street, Russell-sqnare, London. 
RS. LOUIE M. LOWE, 23, Upper
^  Baker-street, London. At home from two till
five o’clock daily, except Sundays.
MDLLE. HUET, good. Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris. 
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
90, Great Rnssell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Magnetised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIRVOYANTE and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair; sex and
age required. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism,
Specialities. At home from 12 till 5 p.m. Patients
treated at their homes when desired. 99, Park-street,
Grosvenor-square, London, W.
TTiOLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodg-
ings on moderate terms. References to Spirit¬
ualists can be given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-
terrace, Folkestone.
Hackney spiritual evidence
SOCIETY, 6, Field-view-terrace, London-flelds,
E., near Blackstone-road Members’ stance, Mondays,
8 p.m. Private materialisation siance, Tuesdays, 8 p.m.
Miss Barnes, mesmeric sensitive, who obtains good
tappings, also, as conditions favour, lights, voices,
writing, and other psychical phenomena, gives experi¬
mental stances every Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
and Saturday, 8.15 p.m., Sixpence., Private stance
any time, prior arrangement, 5s. Mesmerism taught
personally or by letter, 5s. Sundays, 6.30 p.m., Mes¬
meric Healing; 7, Devotional Meeting; 8, Stance.—Six¬
pence inclusive. C. R. WILLIAMS, Sec.
ixi to awd Etdics #1 Spattititoisw*
No. 364,—Vo^ujviE Fifteen; Number $evejh,
LOlSTDOlSr, FRIDAY, ATI G-IT ST 15th, 1879.
jfTHE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Peics TWorE^ciiii
10s. 10d. per anniim Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARKISOtf.
83( British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritmlist
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Kussia. Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Eight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Eussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
C. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. O. Hall, Esq., P.S.A.
Mrs. S.‘C. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Bev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London,
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.E.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg,
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Yon Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Olavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.B.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully,. Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore,. Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci;, Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq,, M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F E.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau,
The Spiritmlist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Boyal, Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23,; Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Eussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne; Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth street, New York ;
Banner of JAght Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
rpHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history: of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
EXORCISM.
IN the early days of the Church of England, the clergy
were authorised to exorcise evil spirits, but they rarely,
if ever, made use of the power. Perhaps this arose from
want of belief in the efficacy of the rite, the signs and
wonders appertaining to spiritual gifts having died away
as ecclesiasticism became a material and worldly power.
Yet human beings sometimes have their freedom inter-*
fered with by spirits of a low order, and by the mesmeric
operation of bringing the beneficent will-power of several
individuals to bear upon a sufferer at once, the
unseen persecuting intelligence may sometimes be driven
off. Prayer probably adds to this mesmeric power, by
temporarily raising the spiritual state of the exorcists,
thereby enabling higher spirits than usual to get near
them, and to act within the sphere of their influence. It
might have been supposed that when low spirits have
been afflicting a sensitive for some years, they would
return from sheer force of habit directly the influence of
the exorcists was once again away from the patient, but
in the following case the act of exorcism proved a per¬
manent remedy for the evil. The case is known as
that of
“THE YATT0N DEMONIAC.”
In the year 1788 considerable interest was excited
throughout the county of Somerset by the extraordinary
case of one George Lukins, who was said to have been
possessed of evil spirits for nearly eighteen years. The
subject was at first treated as an impostor, but much
controversy and sceptical dispute arising, several illiberal
ex parte statements appeared in the Bristol Gazette and
Bath Chronicle. At length the evidence and circum¬
stances were collected by the: Rev. Joseph Easterbrook,
the vicar of Temple Church, Bristol, of which the follow¬
ing narrative is the substance :—
On Saturday, May 31st, 1788, Mrs. Sarah Saber
called on me, acquainting me that she had just returned
from a visit to Yatton', in the county of Somerset, where
she had found a poor man afflicted with an extraordinary
malady. She said his name was George Lukins; that
he had fits daily during her stay at Yatton, in which he
sang and screamed in various sounds, some of which did
not resemble the modifications of a human voice ; that
he cursed and swore in a most tremendous manner while
in his fits, and declared that doctors could do him no
service., She likewise said that she could take upon her
to affirm that he had been subject to fits of a very un¬
common nature for the last eighteen years, for the cure
of which he had been placed for a considerable tinie
under the care of Mr. Smith, an eminent surgeon of
Wrington, who administered all the assistance in his
power without effect; many other medical gentlemen,
74
she said, had in like manner tried to help him, but in
vain. Most of the people about Yatton then conceived
him to be bewitched; but latterly he had himself
declared that he was possessed of seven devils, and that
nothing would avail but the united prayers of seven
clergymen, who could ask deliverance for him in faith.
But seven could not be procured in that neighbour¬
hood to meet his ideas and try the experiment; she
therefore earnestly requested me to go to Yatton to see
him,
I consented that George Lukins should be brought
to me, little expecting that an attention to his pitiable
case would have produced such a torrent of opposition
and illiberal abuse upon the parties concerned in his
relief.
In compliance with my promise to Mrs. Baber, I
applied to such of the clergy of the Established Church as
I conceived to be most cordial in co-operating in bene¬
volent acts—namely, to the Rev. Mr. Symes, rector of
St. Werburgh’s 3 the Rev. Dr. Robins, precentor of the
Cathedral; and the Rev. Mr. Brown, rector of Portis-
head, requesting that these gentlemen would with me
attend a meeting for prayer in behalf of this object of
commiseration; but though they acknowledged it as
their opinion that this was a supernatural affliction, I
could not prevail upon them to join with me in this
attempt to relieve him. And as these gentlemen
rejected my application, it appeared to me that there
was no rational ground of hope for more success
with those of my brethren, who were less disposed to
admit the doctrine of the influence of good and evil
spirits.
The m,ore frequently I saw and heard of the misery which
George Lukins experienced the more I pitied him, and
being unwilling to dismiss him from Bristol till some
effort had been made for his recovery, I next desired
certain persons in connection with the Rev. Mr. Wesley
to attend a prayer meeting on his account, to which
request they readily acceded. Accordingly a meeting
Was appointed on Friday morning, the 13th of June, at
eleven o’clock. And as the most horrible noises usually
proceeded from him in his fits, it was suggested that the
vestry room of Temple Church, which is bounded by the
churchyard, was the most retired place that could be
found in Temple parish; and for that reason that
situation was preferred to any other, it being our design
to conduct this business with as much secrecy as possible.
But we soon found that our design in this respect was
rendered abortive, for on Wednesday evening, the 11th
of June, there was published in the Bristol Gazette an
ingenious letter from the Bath Chronicle, from which the
following is an extract:—
“ About eighteen years ago, George Lukins, going
about the neighbourhood with other young fellows acting
Christmas plays and mummeries, suddenly fell down
senseless, and was with great difficulty recovered. When
he came to himself the account he gave was that he
seemed at the moment of his fall to have received a
violent blow from the hand of some person who, as he
thought, was allowed thus to punish him for acting a part
in the play. From that moment he has been subject, at
uncertain and different periods, to fits of a most singular.
and dreadful nature. The first symptom is a powerful
agitation of the right hand, to which succeed terrible
distortions of the countenance. The influence of the
fit has then commenced. He declares in a roaring voice
that he is the devil, who, with many horrid execra¬
tions, summons about him certain persons devoted to his
will, and commands them to torture this unhappy patient
with all the diabolical means in their power. The sup-
Aug. 15, 1879.
posed demon then directs his servants to sing. Accord-
(] ingly the patient sings in a different voice a jovial hunt-
[j ing song, which, having received the approbation of the
{j fold fiend, is succeeded by a song in a tfemale voice, very
< I delicately expressed; and this is followed, at the par-
ticular injunction of the demon, by a pastoral song in
m the form of a dialogue, sung by, and in the real character
H of, the patient himself. After a pause and more violent
H distortions, he again personates the demon, and sings, in
{i a hoarse, frightful voice, another hunting song. But in
>L all these songs, whenever any expressions of goodness,
u benevolence, or innocence occurs in the original, it is
)j regularly changed to another of its opposite meaning;
|i neither can the patient bear to hear any good words
\j whatever, nor any expression relating to the Church,.
)j during the influence of his fit, but is exasperated by
<| them into blasphemy and outrage. Neither can he speak
) j or write any expressions of this tendency whilst the sub-
(| sequent weakness of his fits is upon him, but is driven
yj to madness by their mention. Having performed the
I- songs, he continues to personate the demon, and derides
(j the attempts which the patient has been making to get
) | out of his power, that he will persecute and torment him
} | more and more to the end of his life, and that all the
) j efforts of parsons and physicians shall prove fruitless.
/ ] An inverted Te JDeim is then sung in the alternate voices
§0 of a man and woman, who, with much profaneness, thank
) I the demon for having given them power over the patient,
(I which they will continue to exercise as long as he lives,
j | The demon then concludes the ceremony by declaring
(| his unalterable resolution to punish him for ever; and
{I after barking fiercely, and interspersing many assertions
)j of his own diabolical dignity, the fit subsides into the
y same strong agitation of the hand that introduced it,
>1 and the patient recovers from its influence utterly
j weakened and exhausted. At certain periods of the fit
\ | he is so violent that an assistant is always obliged to be
) | at hand to restrain him from committing some injury
(l on himself, though to the spectators he ’ is perfectly
> i harmless. He understands all that is said and done
?! during his fits, and will even reply sometimes to
I questions asked him. He is under the influence of these
'I paroxysms generally near an hour, during which time
i! his eyes are fast closed. Sometimes he fancies himself
II changed into the form of an animal, when he assumes all
\\ the motions and sounds that are peculiar to it. From
I the execrations he utters it may be presumed that he is,
| or was, of an abandoned and profligate character; but
' | the reverse is the truth. He was ever of a remarkably
innocent and inoffensive disposition. Every method
that the variety of persons who have come to see him
| have suggested—every effort of some very ingenious
I gentlemen of the faculty who applied their serious
j attention to his case, has been long ago and recently
j exerted without success; and some years ago he was sent
to St. George’s Hospital, where he remained about
| twenty weeks, and was pronounced incurable. The
emaciated and exhausted figure that he presents, the
number of years that he has been subject to this
| malady, and the prospect of want and distress that lies
| before him through being thus disabled from following
| his business, all preclude the suspicion of imposture.
I His life is become a series of intense anxiety.
!j | “W. R. W.
>! “ Wrington, June 5, 1788.”
) | This letter attracted the notice of the citizens; and it
having been made known that a prayer meeting on
11 Friday morning was to be held in the vestry room of
>| Temple Church for the man who was the subject of that
[i letter, a considerable number of people planted them-
selves upon the walls of the vestry room, and heard part
THE SPIRITUALIST
Aug. 15, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 75
of the prayers, the singing, the conversation, and the
wonderful sounds which proceeded from George Lukins,
and carried some account of these circumstances to a j
printer, who instantly despatched papers upon the subject
through the streets of Bristol and its vicinage. Similar i
papers were shortly carried through the streets of Bath
and London, and through many other parts of the
country; so that, contrary to our design, the affair was ji
in this manner brought before the public.
On Friday morning, June 13, fourteen gentlemen, |!
accompanied by George Lukins, met at the vestry room j <
at Temple Church at eleven o’clock to pray for the relief j)
of this afflicted man, when the following ceremony took J <
place:—
1. They began singing a hymn, on which the man \(
was immediately thrown into strange agitations (very |
different from his usual seizures); his face was variously I)
distorted, and his whole body strongly convulsed. His j <
right hand and arm then began to shake with violence, j)
and, after some violent throes, he spake in a deep, hoarse, | <
hollow voice, personating an invisible agent, calling the n
man to an account, and upbraiding him as a fool for bring- j)
ing that silly company together: said it was to no purpose, j <
and swore “by his infernal den” that he would never |j
quit his hold of him, but would torment him a thousand j <
times worse for making this vain attempt.
2. He then began to sing in his usual manner (still |)
personating some invisible agent), blaspheming, boasted of i(
his power, and vowed eternal vengeance on the miserable j j
object, and on those present for daring to oppose him,
and commanded.his “faithful and obedient servants” to \)
appear and take their stations. J :
3. He then spoke in a female voice, expressive of j (
scorn and derision, and demanded to know why the fool j)
had brought such a company there ? And swore “by If
the devil ” that he would not quit his hold of him, and j)
bid defiance to and cursed all who should attempt to |f
rescue the miserable object from them. He then sung, !|
,n the same female voice, a love song, at the conclusion |
Iof which he was violently tortured, and repeated most I (
horrible imprecations.
4. Another invisible agent came forth, assuming a )
different voice, but his manner much the same as the j (
preceding one. A kind of dialogue was then sung in a j)
hoarse and soft voice alternately, at the conclusion of |\
which, as before, the man was thrown into violent |j
agonies, and blasphemed in a manner too dreadful to be j <
expressed. " | j
5. He then personated, and said, “I am the great jj
devil,” and after much boasting of his power, and bidding j \
defiance to all his opposers, sung a kind of hunting song, |)
at the conclusion of which he was most violently tortured, j (
so that it was with difficulty that too strong men could I j
hold him (though he is but a small man, and very weak j)
in constitution). Sometimes he would set up a hideous j (
laugh, and at other times bark in a manner indescribably |
horrid. u
6. After this he summoned all the infernals to appear |j
and drive the company away; and while the ministers I (
were engaged in fervent prayer he sung a, Te Deum to 11
the devil in different voices, saying, “We praise thee, 0 l)
devil; we acknowledge thee to be the supreme governor,” j
&c., &c. ])
7. When the noise was so great as to obstruct the j(
company proceeding in prayer, they sang together a j)
hymn suitable to the occasion. Whilst they were in ||
prayer, the voice which personated the great devil bid • | \
them defiance, cursing and vowing dreadful vengeance j)
on all present. One in the company commanded him in | (
the name of the great Jehovah to declare his name ? To j j
>vhiph be replied, “I ain the devil,” The same person $
then charged him in the name of J ehovah to declare why
he tormented the man ? To which he made answer,
“ That I may show my power against men.”
8. The poor man still remained in great agonies and
torture, and prayer was continued for his deliverance.
A clergyman present desired him to endeavour to speak
the name of “ Jesus,” and several times repeated it to
him, at all of which he replied “ Devil.” During this
attempt a small, faint voice was heard saying, “ Why
don’t you adjure 1 ” On which the clergyman commanded,
in the name of Jesus, and in the name of the Father, the
Son, and the Holy Ghost, the evil spirit to depart from
the man, which he repeated several times, when a voice
was heard to say, “ Must I give up my power V' and this
was followed by dreadful bowlings. Soon after another
voice, as if with astonishment, said, “Our master has
deceived us.” The clergyman still continuing to repeat
the adjuration, a voice was heard to say, “ Where shall
we go ?” and the reply was, “To hell, thine own infernal
den, and return no more to torment this man.” On this
the man’s agitations and distortions were stronger than
ever, attended with the most dreadful howling that can
be conceived. But as soon as this conflict was over he
said, in his own natural voice, “Blessed Jesus!”
became quite serene, immediately praised God for his
deliverance, and, kneeling down, said the Lord’s Prayer,
and returned his most devout thanks to all who were
present.
The meeting broke up a little before one o’clock,
having lasted near two hours, and the man went away
entirely delivered, and has had no return of the disorder
since.
Mr. Easterbrook then proceeds to give a variety of well-
authenticated documents substantiating the whole of the
above circumstantial narrative.
Lukins was visited by several persons of distinction,
all of whom bore testimony to the foregoing circum¬
stances. The extravagance of his language and his
blasphemous ravings were appalling.
Several pamphlets were published on the subject, but
the narrative of Mr. Easterbrook is in every respect sup¬
ported by authorities of unquestionable veracity, ancL
recommended by its perspicuous and intelligible details.
EVENINGS WITH THE INDWELLERS OF THE
WORLD OF SPIRITS*
BV FREDERICK HOCKLEY.
In presenting the following paper for the consideration
of our brethren of the Rosicrucian College, I am, at the
risk of seeming tedious, compelled to make some prefa¬
tory remarks about this apparition—which came unsought
and undesired—that I may render the narrative intel¬
ligible, and show, moreover, how earnestly and strenuously
the earth-bound spirits among the departed strive to
enter into communion with mortals, now that the veil
which of old could only be penetrated by the adept after
a long and laborious formulae has, by the widespread
practice of animal magnetism, been effectually rent in
twain.
After thirty years’ desultory working with crystals and
mirrors, I had in 1854, under spiritual instructions, pre¬
pared and consecrated a large mirror, dedicated to a spirit
known to me as the 0.A., for the purpose of receiving
visions and responses to metaphysical questions proposed
by myself and friends. To this object I devoted my
Tuesday evenings, and on these occasions was very re-
*
A paper read at a meeting of the Bristol Rosicrucian College.
76
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 15, L879,
luctant to receive spiritual communications from other
sources. But on Tuesday, the 30th December, 1856, a
friend sent to me a small rock crystal for the pur¬
pose of identifying it, also a much larger crystal pur¬
chased by Captain Morrisson at Lady Blessington’s sale.
Zadkiel, in his Almanac 18—, gave an account of the
visions seen therein, illustrated with woodcuts. The
crystals formed pendants to a chandelier destroyed at the
Tuileries during the Revolution of 1830, and shortly after
that event these pendants were offered to me by a lapi¬
dary in London.
The small crystal being on the table without any inten¬
tion on my part of using it that evening, my seeress
casually taking it up, observed, “ The crystal is clouded,”
and immediately the vision appeared, as related in the
following paper, transcribed precisely as written in my
diary.
Being at the time especially engaged in receiving from
the C.A. a translation of his Essay upon Metaphysical and
Spiritual Philosophy (which I hope to get printed this
winter), I could ill spare the time, but consented to
receive The Monk's MS. at every convenient opportunity.
The MS. ' duly appeared in the mirror prepared for its
reception, and my seeress copied it first in pencil, and
afterwards in colours. Unhappily, my seeress’s health, and
her subsequent death, precluded her from copying more
than a small portion of the work, and we had no further
verbal communications with the monk than appears in
this paper.
The monk appeared afterwards to another seeress I
then had, and offered to continue the MS. and enable her
to copy it. He also appeared very unexpectedly to Mrs.
Britten—then Emma Hardinge—in a large mirror I had
opened for her to look at, and afterwards in the small
mirror I had prepared originally to receive his book, but,
not having my crystal books here, I do not remember
what took place.
I exceedingly regret that I am unable to be with you
and produce the book, which I have at last had bound;
but I hope soon to be in Bristol and bring the monk’s
MS. and some other articles which may prove interesting
to our members, and, till then, I have the pleasure of
remaining, most fraternally yours,
Quanti est Lapeke, 8°.
Croydon, 30th December, 1856.
Vol. II., page 128.
A friend having presented me with a small crystal,
which this evening arrived and was lying upon the table,
and had not been charged, my seeress, Miss Emma Leigh,
taking it up, said—
“ It is thick—there is a vision in it.
“ There’s a pair of compasses and a square. Now the
compasses are opening; now there is a point on each end
of the square, which has turned sideways. A book has
come underneath—a thick book, bound in rough calf,
with thick bands up the back; now there’s a man’s face,
very thin, dark, straight hair quite black, come inside the
compasses, and a thin, very thin hand placed upon the
book.
“Now the face has come from the inside of the com¬
passes to a small space outside. The hand has opened
the book—the book is very beautiful inside; it looks
like a picture. There are two figures with wings on each
side of a little oval. In the middle of the oval appear
words or figures beautifully coloured.”
This remained some time, and as the hour for using
the C.A. mirror was at hand, I tried to dismiss the
vision, but it remained. I then placed the crystal in my
cabinet.
At 8 p.m. I invoked, as usual, the C.A. in his mirror,
and the action lasted till a few minutes to ten, when the
C.A. left.
10 p.m.—Immediately Emma took up the crystal, she
observed—
“ It is still clouded. The book is there open, and the
man’s face and shoulders. He has held his hand up, and
the book has opened just in the same place. It looks
very richly illuminated in gold and colours; there is
an arch at the top, and one angel is standing upon a
crushed ball. I Now there are clouds of different colours
coming up under the other figure at the bottom—white,
like smoke, then purple, blue, pink, and golden coloured,
which covers all up to their wings.
“ In the oval the reading is not in English or like
letters; it is large enough to be read. Two or three of
the letters look like ducks with their heads under water.”
Emma then copied the contents of the oval, and when
finished she said—
“Now a little slip of paper has come underneath the
title-page with these words on it (9438 p.) :
C HALD E E
MAGI
S A C R I
Now the man is looking at you.”
I asked, “ Are these words a translation of the
contents of the oval?” and he nodded his head. The
figure then pointed to my papers upon the table, and
I asked if I should make the title-page of my Arcana
Magica similar, at which he again nodded. I then asked
when he would appear again. He then pointed to the
clock on the mantelpiece, and turned his finger round a
number of times. I asked him if he meant this day
week, He nodded and departed.
10.20 p.m, . 4th Jan., 1857.
1 p.m.
Emma and I were conversing without meaning to
invoke, when E. proposed inspecting the crystal, and
upon taking it up it immediately clouded without our
invoking, and she said—
“ Now the book’s coming—it comes in very slowly,
from the right to the left. Now it has opened one fly¬
leaf and then the title. The colour of the paper is like
your old MS.’s—the drawings are very beautiful. The
light which comes from the top makes the figure on the
left (of the title) all of a golden light. The other figure
is altogether darker.”
I then requested that the characters on the title-page
might be deciphered, when she remarked—
“ Now the leaf is turning over—the title is blank. At
the back there is a formal pattern for the border of the
next leaf, and reading in the middle. Those letters are
all beautifully done in colours, but no gold. Thus, in
amber, green, and red (in capital):
Spirits
of THE
Sun, Moon, and Stars :
THEIR
Talismans
AND
Powers.
Tecimo.
Now that leaf has turned over on this side. There’s
the radiant spirit standing full face in a circle. The
bottom of the circle hides the lower part of the figure,
and underneath the circle is an oval. Now there’s a
round ball under the oval, divided into four parts; now
there is a rod on one side, and three bright lines of
colour—purple, green, and yellow—and on the small
Aug. 15, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
77
oval are the same characters as in the oval of the title.
On the other side there is nothing but reading, and the |) I
same border as round the title.”
As the book in the crystal was only about two inches
long, the reading was necessarily too small to peruse, so
I took my oval mirror out of the cabinet, and requested
Unian to transfer the vision from the crystal into the
mirror, that the seer might read it, for, although
extremely distinct and beautifully executed, it was too
small to read.. The vision, however, did not pass into
the mirror, and upon handing Emma a magnifying glass
it enlarged the characters, but rendered them less dis¬
tinct. There appeared to be about two dozen lines upon
the page.
I then requested the spirit of the crystal either to
transfer the vision or send in the words one by one, and
Emma remarked—There is an attempt at something like
reading coming under the book in very straggling letters.
9440.—“ The book would be shown plainly in an
unconsecrated mirror or crystal.”
I asked, “ Shall it be a plain glass or silvered mirror ?”
9442. --“ Tuesday. Like that, but unconsecrated.”
“ I am engaged on Tuesdays. Cannot it be on some
other day?”
9443. —“ Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday,
Sunday—Noon.”
“ Then we will inspect on Sunday at noon.”
Now it is gone, and the book is gone.
1.45 p.m.
Having duly prepared a mirror, on the following Sun¬
day Emma inspected the mirror.
Jan. 11, 1857.
Unconsecrated Mirm\
1.45 p.m. •
The seeress immediately said, “ Here’s the man who
had the book. He has on a brown stuff dress, close
round the waist, straight black hair, black eyes, very
thin, sallow complexion, his head shaved on the top.
He has something like a hood hanging down the back of
his dress.”
“ May I ask your name ? ”
9511. —“ I have no name now.”
“ What was your name when on earth ? ”
9512. —“D.P.”
“ Have you anything to communicate to us before you
furnish us with the MS. ?”
9518.—V Yes. I made the book you have seen when I
was alive. I was a Spaniard by birth, and was received
early into the Catholic Church. I took the vows, and
was a priest. I became acquainted with many secrets,
and read many of the old Spanish manuscripts of the
ancient magicians. Such a study was prohibited, but not
less desired by me. I had much time, and little to
occupy it, and I was devoted with my whole heart and
soul to seeking into hidden things. At last my greatest
wishes were fulfilled, and I saw beings disembodied.
“ I was uneducated in the ways of the world, but
brought up to be conversant with horrors. I was
hardened by sights of penance and sufferings, and I was
constantly employed in hypocrisy and deceit—my calling
obliged me to be so. I saw and conversed with spirits
to whom these things were hateful. By them I was per¬
suaded, and I believe helped, to flee from the Brother¬
hood that, would have persecuted me to death.
“I continued my communion with these spirits. I
knew not, except from what they told me, their nature or
office. I called them only with intense desire, and they
left me when they pleased. I knew of no exorcism—
those that I believed to be good then I know now to be
different. I went away from the convent, and left the
country with my book but half completed, and that I
treasured more than my life, and, my spirit companions
still attending me, I travelled to Rome. I was introduced
by them into the society of the Rosicrucians, some of
whom I cannot believe even now were human. If they
were they had attained powers that man ought not to
possess, for they did things that, callous as I was, and so
well acquainted with sights earthly and ghostly, made
me tremble with fear, and to believe that they had the
working of the universe. At that place my book was
completed. I sought the same powers that they possess.
I learned nearly every form that they, went through,
every ceremony that was used at their meetings.
“ I returned, I knew not why—impelled, perhaps, by
spirits, careless of my temporal safety—to the town that
I had fled from. It was at' the time of the Inquisition.
With my magic secrets and my talismans of powers,
some harmless, and others involving destruction, I per¬
formed many marvels before persons, who gave me up to
its ‘Justice.'
“ I should have been more careful, for I might have
saved myself even then, but I relied on the aid that had
been given to me before. I did wonders that could not be
reconciled with the action of nature. It was evident to
all that I did them by the aid of spirits, but I did not
know any more than they the nature or the quality of
those who helped me.
“ I was tried for being possessed by the devil, and for
practising black magic. 1 attempted to deny it, and I
solemnly swear that I did not on that occasion, when I
knew the sentence would be death, use one word that I
knew to be untrue. I would not compromise my dignity
sufficiently to evade them or their questions ; and when I
denied their accusations it was with a sincere conviction
of their falsehood. Every spirit that I had seen was of
a pleasing form. I believed that the Enemy of Man was
otherwise. The communication that I had with them
tended to make me better than I should have been, or
rather than I was, without their agency being sought.
The knowledge they gave me, though startling and won¬
derful, was I believed innocent, for they in their charms
| (| and talismans did not mention him by any of the names
m known to me in all my reading of black magic. I had
|(i never used a ‘sacrifice,’ and on my conscience I could
j> affirm that I had never used it for the purpose of injury to
|(| any living creature. I had never done with it one
m particle of the injury which they did with it every hour
j)j in their dungeons.”
jyj Expecting I should be shortly disturbed, I requested
[fl the monk to appear at another time to continue his narra-
Kj tion, when he replied—
||| “I will be as concise as possible. I have not much to
| say. I was tried and condemned to death by judges
j\j hearing only one side; but before death was allowed me
!| —the greatest blessing they could give—I was cruelly
I (I tortured, for they had a desire to possess the secrets for
IJI which I was punished, and out of the poor wretches they
j) | tortured they obtained secrets for which they might have as
j(j justly been punished themselves. I had many such com-
m panions in the prison, and not until twenty-three days
I (| after the sentence did the end come that I had looked
i) forward to and longed for with such agonised delight.
“I had been told that there was an after life, and
j) | realised it sufficiently peacefully, if not happily, to make
■ I) j me bear with apparent composure the afflictions of my
j (i enemies. Up to this time I managed to keep my book
|) undiscovered. I had sewn it in the mattress I had lain
|(| upon the first night, and that only after my imprisonment.
|(| With my teeth I had unripped, and with a nail found in
i) j the wall I put the thread in again, and made it appear the
j ^ | same as before ; and when this mattress was taken away
j|.! from me I may safely say that it caused me more pain,
78
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 15, 1879.
more uneasiness and anxiety than their inflictions or my
doom—I was so fearful they should have the power I
was so soon to lose.
“ I was to be burned, and the night before it was cus¬
tomary to allow the prisoners the indulgence of a bed and
a meal. Imagine my joy at that hour when my mattress
was brought back. I picked out my book and concealed
it in my dress until the last moment came, and then, with
despairing energy, when that was no longer of avail, I
clasped it in my hands and determined that it should be
burned with me. I thought not so much of myself as of
that, and I went to the stake as firm, perhaps, as the
frailty of the flesh would allow a mortal to do. Many of
us were burned, and to this circumstance, or to those
again interposing who were not of earth, I must owe the
preservation of my book from the sight, up to this time,
of the officials around me. It was not until a moment or
two before my execution that they attempted to grasp it.
The chains that they had put on my hands I had bound
round my book, and I held it as tight as the will of a man
nerved by death can, and I hurried quickly into the very
flames to get it out of their reach. I succeeded, and I
saw it in flames when only the soles of my feet were
scorched. As the flames went on consuming me my
senses left, delirium came on, and I believed that I raved.
My passing from life into immortality—from time into
eternity—was certainly a fearful one. When my spirit
was released, and I was again whole as I am now—when
I started into being, the same as life, yet how changed
—I found my book with me, and myself surrounded
by those who had so often been my companions on
earth/’
Just as I was about to be interrupted, the monk
said:
<{I will continue it with your permission when you have
more time.”
2 p.m.—Action ended and the monk left.
18th Jan., 1857.
2.15 p.m.
Unconsecrated Mirror.
Called the monk, and the seeress instantly remarked,
“ He is here as before.”
“ I was burnt in 1693, in the summer, and I have not
now progressed beyond the state I then found myself in.
I had mistaken the appearance of the spirits that came to
me upon earth. I had given myself up to their guidance
without inquiring to what order they belonged, and I
found, when it was too late, that I had been encouraging
and communing with the planetary spirits, and not with
those who can direct and counsel. I believed from the
information I received—information from those who
visited me—that the planets were the abode of men after
death : that they formed the different degrees and modes
of happiness, that some were evil and some good, and
that the greatest felicity was enjoyed by those who were
allowed to enter the sun. They never said one word to
me of the spheres. I did not know that there was a
short and direct mode by which I could obtain truth and
profit by it everlastingly. I know now that I had the
power of exercising and dispelling them if they were not
what they represented themselves to be, the only spirits
of the universe.
“ I know now that I might have inquired of them, and
that they would have been bound to answer me rightly;
but while receiving them, and trusting implicitly to them,
I lost sight of the Being who could alone rule them, and
of the name by which, were they falsehood itself in their
nature, they would be defeated and subdued. This was
caused by my connection with the Catholic religion. I
no more believed the doctrines I professed, the sanctity
of vows that I took, than I did in my competency to give
j
I)
|
j \
I
/
)
)
(
/
\
:
absolution for money, or my efficiency in obtaining the
intercession of saints that I ridiculed.
“I was soon after death aware of my sin, and had a
consciousness of all my offences, with a knowledge of the
right, and a desire to obtain it, and through it peace and
rest. I have remained as I died, and I am told that it is
to the mercy of the Providence that I blasphemed upon
earth I owe even this my present position, sorrowful and
earth-bound as it is. They tell me that my sufferings on
earth, and my death by the hands of another, prevented
me from living a sufficient time to be repentant, even if I
had been convinced of my errors—that such a conviction
might have come before my natural life had closed, when
the Giver of it alone thought fit, and, therefore, the
punishment that I might have expected with justice, had I
died a natural death, was transmitted to those who caused
my death; that they, when they deprived me of life, took
upon themselves the whole burthen of my spirit and made
me neutral, neither receiving increased happiness nor any
punishment, save my own conscience, and as I sinned
through error in my intercourse with spirits I am not
punished for that, because I believed them to be the highest.
Those for whom I mistook them look upon me with
pleasure and with pity, and they do all that is possible to
keep me from falling a step lower.. By their aid I shall
be able to rise gradually to a better state of existence.
But there is one thing that I want out of my possession,
that I want to see back in reality upon earth before I can
rest—the book that I have treasured at all times more
than my life; and at the last, when I am well aware that
my thoughts should have been directed to a far different
subject, it was my only aim to take it with me, and if I
could not do that, to keep it from those who destroyed
me. ‘
“From that time to this I have incessantly wandered
about trying to bring that book back into form before I
lose sight of the earth. My only wish is to see it in
material form as it was then, that the secrets which
caused me such trouble to collect should not be lost when
I was dead even to memory. I have tried to show it to
men. So wild have been my endeavours that I have even
presented it to them while asleep. They have dreamed
of it, and I—oh, how hard have I tried to make it intel¬
ligible to them when waking has dispelled the illusion
from their minds. I have sought other modes. I have
tried to present it through writing mediums, but they
have other spirits that, low as I am, I would not dare to
mingle with or be near, for I shun their presence with as
much abhorrence as I look with pleasure to the light
which comes from those I trust may help me. They
assure me that the more free I can keep my mind from
the thoughts of earth, from the memory of the past, and
turn them to things above me, the readier I may hope for
assistance.”
The monk here paused, and, mentioning to him some
similar cases from Jung Stilling’s Theory of Pneumatology,
I earnestly exhorted, him to pray for assistance and pardon.
He replied:
“ But I cannot pray sufficiently for him to do so. More,
I must show with my whole being that I am changed in
turning my thoughts from earth to heaven. I must ask
with humility by my actions as well as by my voice for
His grace.”
I explained that although my time was fully occupied,
yet, having received my G.S.’s permission, I would
receive his book as often ^s possible, and, placing the
title my seeress had copied, I asked if he could see it,
and if the characters were correct.
“The figures are the same; the spiritual characters are
the same.
“ It is the talisman of the sun, as I thought when I
Aug. 15. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 79
made it the highest that might be made. It is a key to
the language of all spirits, and their talismans that dwell
there. ^
“ That is, there is only one class of spirits, although
numerous individuals. Each has a power peculiarly his
own, which is felt in or influences the material World.
This power is obtained and kept up by a talisman, which
each possesses separately from the other, and made up of
different characters. These characters make a language
that consists, I may say, of twenty-four letters of the
different modes of expression. These letters are joined
and shortened—in the separate talismans it is so. There
are conjunctions of characters that look to the uninitiated
of quite a different description from the   language
of their originals. The one from which all their expres¬
sions are taken is the Talisman of the Sun, the one
great talisman that belongs to their abode; their lan¬
guage you will see in my book.
“ I have long been desirous of penetrating the mys¬
teries of the order of R.C. Will you give me the
formula, or does your book contain it ?”
“ It does.”
“As I have now one hour to spare, shall we commence
with a page of chapter — of your MS. ?”
“ I have not got it with me.”
. “ If I devote next Friday evening to it will you bring
the book with you ?”
“ Yes I will.’'
“ May I ask your age when you thus suffered
under the tender mercies of the Holy Apostolic In¬
quisition ?”
“ Forty-three. The many years that I have .passed
since have made me no older. I would that the horrid
religion which I professed, and which destroyed me, was
swept away from the earth, that its priesthood were ex¬
tinguished, and the poor deluded wretches that drag after
them in their misery were made partakers of the mercy of
Him they blasphemed.”
“ Do you know anything in your present state of the
famous writer upon occult philosophy, Henry Cornelius
Agrippa, who died in , and published this work
(R. Russell’s translation of the three books, quarto 16) ?”
“ He is not in my state; he has gone on far above
me. He was a Christian and a student, that was all;
I a believer and follower.”
“Do you suppose that he did not practise magic as
well as study it ?”
“ He inquired into it before he could give that work
(pointing to the book then on the table). He had a strong
tendency to Spiritualism, and used available means to
elucidate apparent mysteries, but he always undertook the
search with a deep reverence and a firm reliance on the
Almighty, and a determination to let nothing that passed
between him and spirits, be they what they might, should
interpose between his own being and his Maker, and
never to do aught at their instigation other than his
own heart and conscience told him to be consistent
with the laws of his Maker manifesting themselves in
his being.”
“ Did you know in the spirit world Joseph Balsamo,
commonly called Count Cagliostro, who, like yourself,
died under the pious and tender care of the Holy Inqui¬
sition in the Castle of St. Angelo, at Rome, in 1798, just
a century after your death ?”
“ I know he did. He was in my state—indeed, worse
than mine, more degraded than I am, for he had made
sacrifices to his gods, and yet he’s gone on before me;
* The sun, so far as its physical aspects are concerned, consists
largely of gaseous and molten metals, in a state of incessant dis¬
turbance, but Mr. Hockley gives this narrative as he received it,
—Ep.
R[ I saw him leave this place and go on before me whilst I
| {| remain. I have seen murderers leave it.”
“ I have often conversed with Cagliostro in my
j;yj mirrors. Although a spirit, he held materialistic views.
j)i His appearances at first were very painful, but he has
j j progressed onwards to happiness, and I hope it will be
i > i the same with you ere long; but you must pray for
jj] mercy.”
“ I may be forgiven by mercy, if not by justice.”
“Did you knowG-uiseppeFrancisco Borri, the Milanese,
j n the author of La chiavo del Cabinetto ?”
“ Yes, I knew him in my life.”
“ I always understood that Romish priests who under-
j.yj went the purifying by fire were first strangled at the
|)i stake?”
“ There were some instances of it, but it was not a
iji rule. It is left to the option of the supreme judge the
k! mode of execution. If he had a purpose to effect he
m might do so, but not from mercy, for that was never a
|)| part of his nature. But whenever the torture of ‘the
I (| nails ’ was inflicted it was perfect evidence that the
>1 extreme would be gone into, and, instead of the fire
j); being kindled after I was bound, it was made first, and I
j(j was then put in, and, if necessary, an iron framework
j)i would have been thrown over me.”
“ Surely the men who could inflict with fiendish plea-
j | sure such torments upon their fellow-creatures, however
l/j erring, cannot now be at rest ?”
“No; I tell you the sins of their victims are visited
on their own heads, and they are expiating their own
: \ | offences and their victims’ in the worst of all states that
i/j can befall spirits—in burning themselves in the fires that
i (| they have kindled for their vie tims. ’ ’
“ Then there we will leave them.”
j/1 The monk continued :
“ Besides other means of torture they drove splinters
i) j of iron, like fine nails, into the fleshy parts of the soles of
j) i my feet, a dozen in each at first, and then removed everj’-
Kj thing from my dungeon that I could either sit or lie upon.
|>| Standing or walking was insupportable. My hands were
R] bound. The damp floor was moist and slimy, with vermin,
j) | I was in perfect darkness, except when the light came
Kj that was to go with me to punishment, and was only
i) | dragged into full light to answer the repeated questions of
ijl the Ruler, and then dazzled and blinded with light, and
Kj voices, and curses, and the agony of walking, 1 was
|jj turned back into the dungeon for three-and-twenty days.
\(\ But it is enough: you would be revolted at the horrors
§ kUam
“ Yours was indeed a shocking end. But let me ask if
| | I, by again bringing into the material wnrld your
jjj manuscript, and leaving it behind me when I die, might
i j I not thereby lead some future possessor into evils which he
Kj might otherwise have escaped?” „
“ If a right use were made of it the work would only
j(j tend to enlighten and instruct.”
“ When I complete your manuscript I shall put this
|| narrative at the commencement as well as an introductory
jvj warning against its abuse.”
“ It is not for the making of that book I am punished,
Kj but for the reliance I placed upon the spirits there treated
jjj of, and far more for the sins of my profession. They
j j j constitute my guilt.”
“ Do you know anything of this MS.—The Key of Rabbi
jjj Solomon on Magic Telesms?”
Kj “Will you place it closer ? I do know the characters,
iji They were copied originally from some of the Rosicrucian
jjj works. There are some private libraries and manuscripts
j) | in Rome now which are kept quite secret from strangers
jjj to the order; they are full of the most curious seals and
jij descriptions of spirits and spirit-places in their own Ian-
80
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 15, 1879.
guage. You will find in my book the means of reading
these. Each planet had a separate one.”
“ I know nothing of the means of communication be¬
tween spirits of a higher state, or whether their modes
of expression are the same. May I ask how you became
aware of my seer’s faculty of spirit seeing, and my prac¬
tice of invoking them ?”
Px. 9,534, vol. xi.—“ ‘You have seen so many spirits
that it is well-known that you are able to communicate
with them. Were you to throw it open to all who would
come there would be many and of different grades availing
themselves of it, I was not prevented from appearing,
therefore I may say I was allowed to do so. Higher
spirits would not deprive me of the chance of making
myself happier when they knew I had the desire to do so.
They would not dose every portal against me and make
me an outcast from every one.”
“ Then on Sunday evening I will await your appear¬
ance.” And my seer remarked, “ Now he has turned
round and walked away.”
18th January, 1857.—3.45 p.na.
“ BETWEEN THE LIGHTS.”
A WORK with the above title, by “ Lisette Earle,” has
just been published by Messrs. Remington and Co.
Without any mention of Spiritualism the work is full of
its principles and its facts. It is manifestly written by
an authoress who at some period of life has known
sorrow, and thought broadly and deeply about things
spiritual and the causes of human happiness and human
woe. Between the Lights is the best work of fiction of
the kind we have seen for a long.time, and it is so true
psychologically that it is difficult to assume that some
of the spiritual experiences narrated therein are not
real ones.
The following quotation is from a tale in it, entitled
<( The Hermit—
f| Do not jest, Mildred,” she said; “ I have indeed
heard, thought, and felt what I shall never forget.”
“ A dream, Kathleen V' I questioned. “Surely you
have nothing worse to tell than some weird dream 1”
“ Perhaps it was a dream,” she murmured, “and yet
I was not asleep.”
“ Tell me, Kathleen; I am all anxiety to know.”
“ Mildred, I am not superstitious, and attach but
little importance to dreams; yet last night, a little past
midnight, I was awakened by a gentle tapping at my
casement. I listened, comparing the sounds to a bird’s
beak striking the glass. Thinking it might be a little
fledgling fallen from its resting-place in the eaves, I
hastened to open the window, and, by the moonlight,
sought for it all around, but could not And anything,
and so returned to my bed again. Presently the same
low tapping began again; this time there seemed a
friendliness in the little raps, and, falling as they did
upon the glass, a ring in them that sounded like notes
from a musical instrument. J
“ Soon the sweet little sounds died away, and perfect
stillness reigned within and without; not a breath of
wind stirred the leaves, and a quiet as of death fell
upon me. I listened for my own breathing, but could
perceive no sound. And yet it was not sleep; I was
awake, and my senses were acute as I lay listening, for
I knew not what. In a second or two I heard the tones
of a voice, at first in murmurs and at a distance, coming,
as it were, from over the hills; then nearer, in my
room, by my side, clearly and distinctly: it was the
voice of Geoffrey. Monkton, and on my ears fell these
words:—
“ How long the night seems! I am waiting for the
morning. How dark the night seems, and so cold !
“ What is the matter with me ? I have had a long
sleep; an unusually long night this has been, and I am
Avaiting for the morning. Oh, it is cold, and I am chill
as though I had lost something; yet what have I to
lose ?
“ I look for the morning. What has morning to do
with me, or I with the morning 1 Shall I go and warm
myself in the sun of to-morrow when it comes ? No, I
will not. Why should I suffer pain, or voluntarily look
upon pain 1 I know it is so, and I have resolved to look
upon it no longer. Yet I am waiting for the morning.
“ What strange sensations pass over me. Surely it is
better to be in the dark, if the sun throws light, and
forces me to see suffering and pain.
“ It is coming. I feel it is coming. A great light is
coming, and I fear it. I am like a blind man going
under the operation of having his eyes opened. Am I
prepared ?
“ There is the first star! I am glad it does not break
all at once upon me. I can put it from me no longer;
friend or foe, messenger of mercy or monster of evil,
the thing that men call Death confronts me. I am
slipping away ! Where, oh, where 1
“ I am growing nervous. A childish feeling of fear
comes upon me. Am I afraid to die? For years and
years I have walked alone, asking no advice, taking no
help, refusing to mix with my fellows. Having never
seen the image of God reflected as I desired, I lived
without Him, and lived in my own world; strong
enough to do without aid. Now I find myself in this
dark hour, before the new morning, putting forth my
hand in the darkness for help, asking to be guided. I
have a contempt for myself. I despise this weakness,
and yet—oh, how shall I guide me ?
“ Hark, a voice ! Strange word to my ears ! Strange
sound, yet I listen for it again. There it is—it sounds
from afar, but I hear it. ‘ Friend ! * I wonder if he is
sincere ? I called no man friend. I never believed in
friendship ; yet it sounds pleasant, and there is a ring
in it that seems truthful.
“ ‘ Fear not, oh, my friend. Slowly thou art coming
to the light. Fear not this breaking of the morning,
Put out thy hand; I will guide thee.’
“ So, like a blind child, I submit, and turn me to the
sound. The voice comes nearer to me.
“ The sky is studded with stars, and the sun is rising.
The night of my death is passed, and I am beginning to
live. Oh, for what ?
“ I will talk with this friend, and ask him who he is,
for my eyes are bandaged. I just feel that the morning
is breaking, and the sun is rising, but I see not, for this
bandage shuts out and hides me from all that is fair to
look upon. Yes, he is my friend. He shall be my
counsellor and my guide. He has known me, and I
have never recognised him. Self-appointed, sympa¬
thising with, and understanding me better than I under¬
stood myself and the world; filled with compassion for
the torture I inflicted upon myself; his heart burning
with a desire to tear the scales from my eyes, and show
me things as they are, and not as they seem; so has he
followed and watched me all my way. . Driven back oft-
times by the blindness and dense darkness that I allowed
to gather round, and form itself into a barrier that
would not let him show me the light; sometimes turning
aside to weep at my refusal of the comfort he brought;
yet ever has he followed on, clinging to that part of my
nature tkat sometimes, yea, ofttimes, yearned, for the
Aug. 15, 1879,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
81
good and true. He took hold of me in moments when
my hungry soul went out for something satisfying, yet
not knowing where to find it; so shutting up again and
again these channels whence might have come to me
this knowledge of the spiritual and the heavenly.
“ * Oh, poor, blind humanity, would that you knew
the help that is at hand ; would that you could see the
light above, and feel the hands that are outstretched to
save/
“ ‘ Oh, friend, friend, didst thou not weary in those
days, and grow tired of the stupid pupil thou hadst
taken upon thee to instruct f—‘ No !’
“ ‘ Didst thou not wonder at my darkness and stu¬
pidity —‘ Yes !'
“ ‘ Didst thou never reproacli me for my irreligious
life, and my vacant place in church V—‘ No.’
“ ‘ Didst thou follow me into my chamber, and look
upon the mental anguish I endured, and hear the great
cry that welled up in my heart i Where is God V—■
‘Yes/ f
“ ‘Didst thou note the secret tear that would, In
spite of myself, moisten my eye, and cause the wail to
go out from me—Oh, suffering humanity V—* Yes/
“ ‘ Didst thou hear me, when other moods came on
me, scoff at the church*going, and mock at the so-called
piety that passes current in our land i Didst thou up¬
braid me then ?’—‘ No/
“ ‘ Then what hast thou to say to me of all these
matters V
“ ‘ Thou wert born into darkness and ignorance. Thou
wert trained falsely, told that thou must believe such
and such creed on pain of being excommunicated from
the favour of God, and eternally doomed to misery and
despair.1' The divinity that was within thee, the spark
of intelligence that would have guided thee aright, hadst
thou been left alone, was pressed down, driven back
from thy life, compelled to hide itself deep in thy inner
soul. Thou wert driven on to live falsely, to profess a
belief in that which thou couldst not understand, and
which in freedom thou wouldst most certainly have
rejected. I pitied thee then, and resolved to be thy
guide. Then came thy trials, thy disappointments,
making thy heart sore. Thy eyes opened wide to all
that was false, to all the misery and wrong-doing that
was in the world. Thy mind became warped, thou,
sawest nothing but husks. Oh, poor brother, could I
have reached thee then, just before that great disgust
seized upon thee for all things and all men, I might
have saved thee many bitter pangs; but thou wert a
little too wayward, choosing thy own gloomy way, and
so ended thy life in darkness ; but thou art come to the
light now. Thy friend always—more thy friend to¬
night than ever. I keep my place at thy side, to walk
with thee, to talk with thee; gradually, by slow and
safe degrees, to unloose this bandage from thine eyes,
and give thee, not bright visions, but glorious realities ;
not to close thine eyes to evils that are in thy way, but
to show thee the remedy; not to throw a covering over
vice, but to show thee how thou canst help in uprooting
and destroying these noisome weeds that so offend thine
eyes. I will tell thee how thou mayest put on the harness
with us, and help to remove this crust of ignorance and
evil that is so crushing and so heavy on the earth.'
Little by little shalt thou be taught, as thou art able to
bear it, until gradually thine eyes shall become strong
enough to see by this new light, and look upon the
beauty of things around thee. So will thy heart become
delighted with the harmony that prevails. Here the
rose blossoms without the fear of evil to destroy it, and
here thine hands may press the green and tender leaf
without fear of harm.
m
“ ‘Thou must be patient, for thine eyes are tender
yet, and thou canst not bear it. Rest awhile. Be a
hermit still, and conceal thyself as thou pleasest. Let
this that has been given thee to-night be something for
thee to reflect upon, until it shall work in thee not only
the desire, but the strength to do that which has been
accumulating for years, whilst thou hast wasted thy life
in a hermit’s cell.
“ ‘ I forbear to carry thee further, and will leave thee
for the present,
“ ‘ There is no curse upon thy head, no angry God to
meet, no eternal torment to fear. There are no wolves
of the desert, po beasts of prey, for here the people love
righteousness, and here the lion lieth down with the
lamb, and thou art secure. Then rest, brother, rest.
I will call thee “ hermit ” still, until thou art ashamed of
the name, and ask for another/ ”
THE IMPENDING DIFFICULTIES IN NEW
ZEALAND.
THE PROPHECIES OP TE WHITI.
The Thames Advertiser of the 21st June—a paper pub¬
lished in New Zealand—reports the following extraordinary
speech and prophecies delivered by Te Whiti, at a meet¬
ing of natives held at Parihaka. The usual work seems
about to be resumed in New Zealand of showing savages
the benefits of Christianity by shooting them when they
resist the stealing of their land. Te Whiti, who is an
orator of repute, and apparently a trance medium, said :—
“I am the man who stopped the rains out of the
heaven flooding the lands. I am the man who spoiled the
land in the place I choose. If any man molest me I will
talk to him with the tongue. That is the weapon with
which I will fight for ever. Whoever believes in the
evil woman can’t be one of my followers. I will cast
him out. The time is fast approaching—is even
now at hand—when all shall be ended and the heavens
shut. All things are enacted now on the earth. All
people, nations, and tongues are under my feet. All
things are given me, and all men war against me. The
heavens will come down. The water will be disturbed
and muddy, and you will not see it clear. Four great
earthquakes will be in divers places, and men will be
shaken, and they will stoop to me. All the saying of
the prophets of old are now accomplished. I will rejoice
and be exceedingly glad because the end is near. In the
old times God and Satan worked good and evil. It is
God and I who do all things. The man standing before
you now is Satan and God in one. My work is now
nearly accomplished. I will not address you any length
of time. If any walk in dark places, turn to evil, let him
go his evil way. Those who choose the light, let them
walk there. Keep what I say in your mind, and cherish
it. Don’t let it slip from your memory. I have been
crying like one sighing in the wilderness, calling sinners
to repentance. Gome! come to me and be saved. So
long as you remain with me no man can harm you. The
mighty of the earth laugh at you, because you are poor
and lowly-minded, but wait till you see them humble
themselves, and bow to your feet.”
Te Whiti continued in this strain for a considerable
time, stating that the world belonged to him, and calling
himself Jesus Christ, and saying that if the Government
were to send a large force to Parihaka, and to take him
and to crucify him, tha,t after three days he would rise
again. He would not offer resistance to the soldiers
when they came, but he would gladly let them crucify
him. He also stated that the Government are determined
to put surveyors on the plains, but he said he would not
fight them. Te Whiti then addressed the newspaper
82
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 15, 1879.
reporters who were present taking notes of what he was
saying, thus:—
“When I speak of land, the survey,the ploughing,and
such matters of little consequence, the reporters’ pencils fly
with the speed of wind; but when I speak of the word of the
spirit, they say this is the dream of a madman. They are so
intent in accumulating wealth that nothing appears to in¬
terest them except what is insome way connected with the
acquisition of wealth. The storekeeper who has suc¬
ceeded in acquiring wealth by short weight and inferior
articles, and the numerous ways of picking and stealing
known only to the initiated, who steal the land of the
Maoris, and acquire flocks of sheep and herds of cattle ;
the men who would take the bread out of the mouths of
the widows and fatherless, and acquire riches by so doing—
are all looked upon as gentlemen of property, while the
humble, seekers after truth are passed by unknown and
unheeded. The time is at hand when their goods will
rot; their ships will rot in their harbours for want of
sailors to work them; the merchants will wring their
hands in despair, when they and all their accumulations
will melt away like the morning mist before the rising
sun,”
' ■
PSYCHICAL EXPERIENCES DURING A PERIOD
OF APPARENT DEATH.
(From the “ Kansas City Times”)
Mrs. Diana Powellson, widow of the late Thomas
Powellsoh, resides upon land rented from Mr. William
Chick, seven or eight miles south-west of Kansas City.
She is forty-one years of age, and the mother of nine
children. Up to three years ago she had been a re¬
markably vigorous woman.' On the 1st of August, 1876,
a premature labour induced the disease which culminated
in what was supposed to be* death. At one time, Dr.
Thorne, supposing his patient would soon die, remained
with her. The pulse was then ranging at 110; the
respiration 16 per minute. Cold, clammy perspiration
all over the body, eyeballs thrown backward and
upward ; no action whatever of the diaphragm; she had
been blind for several days; things continued in this
course without much change until one o’clock in the
morning, when she died. The spasms of the neck and
hands now relaxed, the h,ead dropped forward upon the
breast, the eyelids opened, the eyeballs resumed their
normal position, the pupils were dilated, and the film
gathered upon the eyes. The woman was deadi, A
current of electricity passed from the base of the brain
to the lower portion of the back failed to revive her.
She did, however, finally revive, only to pass through
another change called death, finally reviving again.
Our reporter visited the bedside of the lady, in
company with Dr. Thorne. Her story is as follows :—
“ I have been a professed Christian for many years.
Some time in 18771 joined the Methodist Church South.
I am a full believer in Christianity. The statement
that I am about to make is stranger to me than it can be
to you.
“ On the night of my first dying, the more I died the
less pain I felt. I was so happy at going (oh ! sir, I
suffered so much); felt no misery of any kind; pain in
the head all gone ; it seemed that I lost all consciousness
but for a moment; when I came to my senses again I
knew I was dead, but everything was very dark to me.
I thought I was still blind. I became filled with terror,
anticipating the worst. My husband (who died in 1866)
soon, however, took hold of me. He told me I was on
the wrong road. Others of my departed friends and
family did the same. The darkness suddenly vanished.
I saw all my friends and millions of others., I saw hills
| | and valleys, trees and flowers, rivers, seas, lakes, and
| | birds, and heard such music as I cannot describe. The
|(j people were not what I expected to see. They were
\)\ ordinary men and women. Some were bright and
j j beautiful, and others were lean and miserable-looking.
K| I saw their homes. They lived in communities. All
|)| were much more beautiful than any we have, but some
Ki were not so beautiful as others. I saw many bright
\(\ spirits, but was very much surprised that they had no
| H wings. My friends led me from the dark place into the
K | light. I did not come through this dark place any more,
In. either in coming back or returning at any time. I saw
in': many meetings or congregations, but did not learn what
| | they were doing. I thought I was at home, but was
|) | told that I must return to my body again. My husband
Kj told me this. I cried and was very much angered at
| /1 him, and still am for sending me back. I long to be in
|pi that beautiful home that they told me was mine. My
|)| husband sent a message to his son and to my children
| | by me.
“Messages were also sent by many others. I was
i>| afraid of some spirits, who looked dark and forbidding,
|(i while others were so bright,beautiful, and kind. When
ijj I was there a large concourse gathered around me. I
|| did not know I should return to earth till I was told so
•|j| by my husband. He was sixty-seven when he died,
|)| though he now looks in the prime of life. My two
m children were with their father. I was very surprised
f»! at this; I had known only one; one child was born
m dead, prematurely, in August, 1876 ; it was very rejoiced
|)|: to see me. I cannot compare it to any age ; it differs
| )| from earth, but still a small child. I felt all a mother's
K| love for that child, which I did not think I possessed,
j;| My boy, one year old, died fifteen years ago ; he is now
| (| a young man and knew me.
“ Spirits do not sing like we do ; much nicer. I saw
|)| some spirits who looked repulsive and dark. The
Kj clothing of all was of the flowing or robe kind. No
|m voice is used by spirits. I understood them more
| (j perfectly without words. I read their thoughts; it is
j (j more perfect language than ours. They told me to come
i) j back to earth for three or four years with my little
| | children who are here, unless I was dissatisfied. I
|)| promised to do so.
“ I expected to meet Christ, but did not do so. They
m told me this was why I was in the dark. I know now
j) j that I must depend- upon myself. We are over there as
Kj we are here. We make our own happiness. I did not
j)j find any heaven or hell, only life, more perfect and
HI beautiful than this. This is not life at all. What I
jj| now relate is as clear to my memory as anything in
wl life can be.
“In dying, after the first time I did not lose con-
j > j sciousness. I seemed to fade from one life into another.
||| I now often see spirits around me, but cannot speak to
j)l them or they to me. They show me flowers, which are
j)j more beautiful than ours. Spirits told me they had to
Kj repent of their sins over there before they could advance.
!)| Till they did this they were unhappy. I was much
K j surprised when I first went there at seeing a spirit which
j>j I took to be God. And I afterwards supposed it was
j) j Jesus Christ, but who was only a bright spirit teaching
j(j the others. I saw many such afterwards; they don’t
|>j seem to belong to the rest at all. Everybody is engaged
j)j in learning and growing brighter, so they told me.”
The facts and particulars of this strange death were
m verified by the people of Rosedale generally, More
|<| particularly was the account substantiated by Mrs. Kittie
|)| Powellsop, sister-in-law to the lady, and Miss R,
j|| Powellspn, the daughter, Mrs. John Haddock, Mrs. Jas.
KI 'Willson, Mrs, Callenbprger, Mr, Raird, practising
Aug. 15, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
83
physician in Rosedale, and many others who have been
constantly attending her.
Dr. Thorne called in consultation Dr. Halley, of
Kansas City, who made a thorough investigation of the
case. Dr. Baird has also been a witness of many of the
phenomena.
Philadelphia, Pa., July 9,1879.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALTON.
(From the "Barrow Herald.”)
It is not generally known that the Spiritualists of Dalton have
taken a room at 42, Queen-street, for the purpose of holding
seances and public meetings. The room is simply furnished with
a three-legged table and a number of chairs. On Sunday last
the room was opened by two public meetings—one in the after¬
noon and the other in the evening. As we entered on Sunday
evening we found a nice little company assembled consisting of
from twenty-four to thirty persons, and the proceedings were
conducted in a solemn manner. The first hymn sung commenced
as follows:—
Prom realms supernal, fair and bright,
They of the second birth,
On holy errands wing their flight
To every home on earth.
The chairman then rose and delivered an invocation to the
Deity, which appeared to us to be as much for the instruction of
the audience as in the nature of a prayer. This twofold invoca¬
tion was to our minds a strange one, inasmuch at it acknowledged
the Deity was unsearchable and past finding out, yet went on to
assert that they knew His ways and His dealings with mankind,
and that they were aware of His attributes, and had assembled
to worship Him. Then the invocation became more of the
nature of a prayer, the speaker praying for the influence of the
spirits and for powers to control the medium who was about to
address the meeting. At the conclusion of the invocation, the
hymn was sung commencing with
Spirits bright are ever nigh,
Pilling earth and air and sky,
Bringing truth and joy and love
From the fount of God above.
Again the singing was capitally done. The chairman then
asked anyone in the meeting to name a subject for the medium
to discourse upon, saying that the spirit guides who controlled
the medium were very many, and that though all spirits had not
the same knowledge, the one who knew most about the subject
chosen would take possession of the medium, and address the
meeting through his organism. No one, however, chose a sub¬
ject, and therefore the medium selected his own, which was
“ Spiritualism: What is it ? ” A tall thin man is Mr. Proctor,
the medium, the person who had to do the chief portion of the
business. His address was an able one; he was rightdown
thoroughly in earnest, and soon won his hearers’ sympathy and
riveted their attention. The energy of the speaker was remark¬
able, and the enthusiasm of his audience catching. It seemed to
be a concentration of the religious or spiritual emotions that
have at all periods influenced the history of mankind. Call it
fanaticism it you like, or bestow on it any other name which you
please, but there is no mistaking the fact that the speaker is
natural, and undoubtedly firmly convinced that there are truths
in Spiritualism which, with an untutored but withal moving
eloquence, he preaches in a manner that Oxford and Cambridge
theologians might do well to emulate. He leads his hearers by
gradual steps up to the subject of immortality, with which his
address closed. The chairman then rose, and after again alluding
to the spiritual guides or controlling spirits by which he asserted
the medium was surrounded, asked any person present to put a
question to the medium, which the spirit, who nad most know¬
ledge on the subject, would immediately answer through the
medium. He pressed for a question as he observed some scep¬
tical friends present. A sceptic present then said he would put
one question. Immediately there was a deep silence, when the
question put was, ” Is Immortality worth having ? ” The
question evidently caused surprise, but the medium, after a pause,
replied “ It is,” and then proceeded to explain that there were
so many grades or spheres for a poor soul to go through before it
entered into the higher order of intelligence, that immortality
must certainly be worth having. This doctrine seemed nearly
allied to the doctrine of the purgatory of souls. The chair¬
man then made a few remarks on the same subject. A collection
was made for furnishing expenses, and the meeting dispersed
after singing the hymn—
Shall we gather at the river.
The whole service was done decently and in order. The Spirit¬
ualists seem to have a calm, steadfast faith, untroubled with the
fearful forebodings of other Christians.- There are no sighs and
groans, no uplifting of hands and eyes, but a peaceful serenity of
mind quite pleasing to behold. "We departed as great a sinner
as before, still unbelieving, but impartial enough to give this
brief record of a pleasant evening spent among the Spiritualists
of Dalton.
WHAT IS THE EXPLANATION ?
We find a curious popular superstition two or three
times repeated in the Hatton Correspondence.* It was
reported that when Lady Ranelagh, and, again, when her
brother, Robert Boyle, lay dying, flames broke out of one
of the chimneys of the house, and continued for some
time, though no cause could be discovered by those
within; and when Dr. Busby departed this life, Lyttelton
mentions how he “ heard an od story, that ye people in
ye street, when he was expiring, saw flashes and sparks
of fire come out of his window, wch made them run into
ye house to put it out, but when they were there saw
none, nor did they of ye house.”
Next Friday Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., will lecture before
the British Association, at Sheffield, on “ Radiant Matter.”
Next Monday week Professor E. Ray Lankester will lecture
before the British Association, at Sheffield, on “ Degeneration.”
Mks. Woodfob.de desires us to state that she leaves town
on the 18th of this month for Wales, to remain two or three
weeks.
Mrs. Emma Hardixge-Bbitten has left Australia. She
reached Dunedin, New Zealand, about the middle of May, and,
according to our latest advices, had begun a course of lectures
there on Spiritualism, Physiology, and kindred subjects.
Mr. Blackburn’s Experiments.—Mr. Charles Blackburn
has asked us to publish the following letter this week :—“ 9th
Aug., 1879. To the Council of the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists. Ladies and Gentlemen,—Please to remove
my name from the list of members of your Association. I do
not require this to be done from any feeling of antagonism, but
because I am carrying on my experiments elsewhere, so do not
wish to incur any extra expenses and liabilities.—Very truly
yours, Chas. Blackburn, Parkfield, Didsbury. P.S.—I shall
send a copy of the above to The Spiritualist newspaper.”
The Leeds Mercury declares that there is a medical gentleman
at Sudbury, near Derby, who has sheep and pigs. Whenever he
runs short of provisions he administers chloroform to the animals,
and keeps them in an unconscious state for from a week to ten
days. After they come out of their coma they are in a better
condition than when put into it. Could not some reader of this
paper living in the indicated district inform the readers what
truth there is in this statement ?
The Arya Samaj.—Dr. Carter Blake writes :—In justice to
the author of the paragraph reporting my lecture in The Times of
July 12th, which was quoted in The Spiritualist of July 18th, I
think it only meet to say that I find therein the words ‘ the Arya
Samaj of Bombay' The omission of these two last words By
Zeta (through inadvertence) may lead some to imagine that
somebody was present at my lecture under an assumed title.
The ancient precedent of the * grand Panjandrum,’ with his little
round button atop, may no doubt be cited as a leading case on
this point. Of the precise nature of the disputes which appear
to have taken place between Mr. Harichandra (Hurrychund)
Chintamon and his associates, I am, and wish to remain, entirely
ignorant; and I have no power to exclude any person from my
Museum lectures ‘ on public days.’ I enclose the original cutting
from The Times.—C. Carter Blake.”
* Correspondence of the Family of Hatton, being chiefly Letters
addressed to Christopher, first Viscount Hatton, A.D. 1601-1704.
Edited by E. Maunde Thompson. Printed for the Camden
Society. 1878.
48
TliE SPIfclfTTAtjST.
Atjo. IS, 1879.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Hy the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size,
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or Ss, Od. post free.'
CONTENTS.
, CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
fbr causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:— Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator-
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
--Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—-Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—-
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Gases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep-
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
-Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV;:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—TraveUing Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis —Cases —Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Musettnpstreet, London
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo's discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof- Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modem Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena;—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
8. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message?” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an d
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than* they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumsnip may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether,
Am. 15, 187^.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
T3RITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIA-
iD TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
0 pmi.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
OFFICES—G, Akkrman Road, Brixton.
The object of the Society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
Well-ktiown mediums, and are entitled to the use of
books on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. SEC.
MRS. WELDON’S WEDNESDAY
RECITALS. Mrs. Weldon gives an Evening’s
entertainment weekly, at Tavistock House, her re¬
sidence (formerly Charles Dickens’). The programme
is varied by a short Lecture, sacred and romantic;
serious and nursery songs by Gounod, Urich, and Mrs.
Weldon. Tickets to be had on application free. A
collection is made for Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage,
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London. ■_
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Alleh, 11, Ave Maria-Iane, E.O.
By F. J. Theobadd. Second Edition, enlarged.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE
COMPARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from
Spiritualism with the idea that it is unchristian and
uuscriptural. It shows (we think successfully) that
every form of mediumship, now so familiar to Spirit¬
ualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of identical
experiences. Also
HEAVEN OPENED.
Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The two bound in one, Is.
These books, consisting of messages given by
writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth,
and their group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and
sorrowing parents.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
>pHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
A oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby end Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, pnilosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, Ac., &e. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 83, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMEN,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late Wm. Gbegory, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
This second edition is, for its quality and size, the
cheapest large work ever published in this country in
connection with Spiritualism. Price Gs., or 5s. Gd.
post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British
Museum-street, WLondon,. C.
Price 3s. Gd. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN* THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship ofl' M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.,
Introduction; The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death." Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmoud.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. Vi Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs.  
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta."
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg,
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marry^t.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon."
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVJ.II.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV.—The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV-—De Profundis, By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI.—Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
. By 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon."
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev, C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M. A., Oxon,"
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow's Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
Of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Hand-
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLlV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child's Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
HE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price Gd.;
post free, 6j}d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
in
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations inEngland—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr.
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigatioh—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—ME Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory Of Psychic
Force. . ■ ■ ^
Chapter VI.—Spirit arid Matter—ArC thefe Twd
Substances ?—Immateriality—Ancierit Belief iri
Spirits—Immortality • in the Bible—Augustirie—DCS-
cartes — Spinoza—Herbert Spencer — SwedChbOi-g —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony Of S;
C. Hall—W. H. HattisOni
Chapter VII.~The Priority of Spirit—The' f-jensee
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—HCgefiart
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.-
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Heroirii
Account—Testimony of Mr, C. F. Varley, Mr; Wmi
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dudphy; Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbhfy—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookesi
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr, A; Bl CrOStoy
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revi Si Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medititil-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomeiidi
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—^Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII,—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality-
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVIL—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss—Leon Case-
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. Gd.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS EKDM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
PART I.
I.—The PrayCf of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VIL
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XL Reconciliation—XII; Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV; The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “ Birdie’s Spirit Song "—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live "—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
2’he Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris, Po$t-OffiCQ orders payable to
Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 15, 1879,
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY TVILLUM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay. '
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
•—t. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s. Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—1 t. “ Fast Falls the Eventide."—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament.—29. The July Bug.— 30. The Converted
Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; consequently
any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a genuine
vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who are not too
stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. - Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on
the contrary, some of his poems touch on the deepest
and most sacred feelings of our common humanity.
. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his ad¬
ventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is
quite one of the funniest things that has been pub¬
lished for years. . . , The book contains quite
enough to ensure it a welcome from which its tasteful
appearance will not detract.’’ The Morning Post says
of The Wobblejaw Ballads :—“ No one can help laughing
at them,’’ and it says that the rhymes are pitched in
“ something like the same key as The Bon Gaultier
Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably suc¬
cessful result."
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published, and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
etreet). Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk's account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch-Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The probable effects of
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals of the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE ALPHA; or, the First Principle
of: the Human Mind; a Revelation, but no
Mystery. With Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait
of the Author, E. N. Dennys. 370 pages, price 3s. 6d.
“We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellows.”
—Athenxum.
It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and
logic than any work we have ever read ; it is a new
revelation, and one of the most remarkable productions
ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also, just published, with engraving of the Author,
470 pages, price 3s. 6d.
rpHE RELIGION OF LIFE, as exemp-
_L lifted by Jesus Christ. A series of Lectures by
theAuthor of “Alpha."
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Mar ia-lane, London, E.C
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per
volume. E
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office. 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.C.
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
- published every week under the editorship of
Mens. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The "Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ ..76
The Seer. „ III. „ . ..76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People . . . . . . . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . -. .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . .... . .76
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .6,0
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and tbeir Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,-33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCBOFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
A LADY SPIRITUALIST AND
MEDIUM is forming a circle for inquirers,
every Monday and Thursday evening, at eight o’clock.
She wishes to engage a genuine materialisation
medium for once a week.—Kindly communicate to
A., 2, Scarsdale-villas, Kensington.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Bough ton, St.
George’s-road.
•\rOTICE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
Xl NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER has arranged for seances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o’clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de¬
velopment for clairvoyance and other forms of
mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
•A/TEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
■LYJL VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for l£d.; or six copies post free for 6d.
Now ready, 48 pp. Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS FOE AUGUST, 1879.
The Spiritual Pilgrim. Part II; by “M. A.” (Oxon)—•
Some Thoughts concerning the Mystical Death; by A.
M. Howitt Watts—Sermons by a Seer : by J. W. F,—
Materialism in Religious Circles ; by J. T. Markley—
A Pioneer of Modem Spiritualism—The Popular Faith
and the Claims of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Reve¬
lation; by John S. Farmer—The Religion of the
Future—Notes and Gleanings: Brief Mentions; Dr.
Talmage on the Future Life; A Sign of the Times;
Honour when Honour is Due; A Curious Legend;
Healing Mediumship ; Dr. Coienso ; The Rev. Joseph
Cook on the Spiritual Body; Spiritualism in Australia
The Hopeless Sadness of Materialism — Spiritual
1 Lyrics; The Dual Mystery; by T, S.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
IND AND MATTER.—A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free.
Price 5s. Or. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
"M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, w.C.
CONTENTS.
Exorcism       73
Evenings with the Indwellers of the World of
Spirits. By Frederick Hockley       75
“Between the Lights"   80
The Impending Difficulties in New Zealand  81
Psychical Experiences during a Period of Apparent
Death.       82
Spiritualism in Dalton...,    83
What is the Explanation ?     83
Paragraphs—Mr. Blackburn’s Experiments, 83;
The Arya Samaj      83
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevbeidgb and Co.
at. the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by W. H. Haerison, 33, British Museum-
street London W.C.
