Hegistbhej; as a Nbwspapeb,
joUf{KSi<
Otf f>^TCSOI<OG(-ICiSl<
 S'&t @ttot jlttosgapt ignmitti> fait|f Sginttialam in feat jiitgin. 
No. 375. (Voii. XV.—No. 18.) LONDON : FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1879. Published Weekly ; Price Twopence.
Just Published.
AN ILLUSTRATED BROADSIDE ENTITLED
THE WOOERS OE LAMPORT, ETC.,
By SIR CHARLES ISHAM, Bart.
Price Three Halfpence, Post Free; or Ten for One Shilling.
2,000 Copies sold in two days.
PROFITS FOR ORPHANAGE.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., .Lamport Hall, Northampton.
THE THE0S0PHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
C o n d n cted by H. 3? . BLAVA T S K Y.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of * The Theosophist,’ ” at the above address.
Now Ready.
The THIRD EDITION of Vol. I. of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
IECHAIISI OF IAE.
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism in Action,”
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
JAMES 1ALTBT,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majestys Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qnality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOYER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 31, 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Squqre, London, If.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the inyestigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Copimunications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HBL(j.863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner And Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).’
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
'The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Crown 8vq, pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion,
By J. P. B.
“This is a very ingenious work.... It is eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy. ’'-—Fa ll Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Just Published.
THE, FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HABRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence pf Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Map by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the+ phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena pf Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the wo^k js almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MR. C. B. WILLIAMS,
61, LAippg CQ^pUIT §pR|SET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday eveifiRgs frqpl 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
' LONpON
(At home every day except Sunday),
■Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
strfeet,' every Eunday fright- 
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having macje many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism,' and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
■ : LONDON. 
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
• VITALITY. *
D. YOUNGER,
184, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnrch (Motfday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can he built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a1 new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
I, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MR F. 0. MATTHEWS,
CLAIRVOYANT, TEST, AND HEALING
MEDIUM,
Is in Town, and will be open to engagements from
October 25 to November 15.
Address—2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY *
 LONDON, W.O. 
F. O. MATTHEWS,
CLAIRVOYANT, TRANCE, TEST AND
HEALING MEDIUM,
35, CAVENDISH TERRACE, WEST HILL PARK
HALIFAX. YORKSHIRE.
MR. A. H. FIRMAN '
(Medium of Count de Bullet)
Will hold his
HOME CIRCLE
Every Tuesday and Friday Evening at Half-past Eight
o’clock, at his Rooms,
26, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, LONDON.
Mr. Firman will be at home every day, except Sun¬
day, from 12 till 5, to make arrangements for Private
Sittings. 
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
Rue St. Honor*!, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays
Thursdays, and Saturdays,1 from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
/ '1H|ARACTERS FAITHFULLY
Av* DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.  
mHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at Eo. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a flrst-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
Spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, <fcc., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
$ tif \htn arjtl IthiDS af SjriitituaUsm*
No. (375,—VokUJWE fIFTEEN J NUMBER EIQHTEEFf,
LONDOH, FRIDAY,
f THE SHRITUAL1BT U Newspaper.
Established in I860.
Published Weekly. Pbice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Uniot}.
EDITED BY WILLIAM g'. gADDISQN.
83, British Museum-strpet, London,
The following Ladies g,nd Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions'to The Spiritualist
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia. Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Yon Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court’of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St-
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. E. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
0. O. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Oalder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Qlcott, President of the
Theosophlcal Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Qregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., MD., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Eev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.B.T,
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Yon Dirpkinck-Hplmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.- 1
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
0. F. Varley, Esq., O.E., F.B.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Qxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, E^q-i J-F,
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichgrdson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne!
J. O. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. O.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel.E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S,
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.B.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq.,' F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Bue Neuye dps Petits Champs,Palais Boyal, Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Pafisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librarlo, Via del Oorso, Borne ; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 87, Bue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
TIHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
pf this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has heen found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.Q.
OCTOBER 31st, 1879.
!| MEDIUMS 0EF DUTY.
BY CHRISTIAN REIMERS,
A POINT about mediumahip which ought to engage
(j the concentrated attention of Spiritualists, is the un-
i deniable fact that frequently-repeated powerful
(i physical manifestations usually entirely disable the
j>! medium from following a profession requiring the
(i steady exercise of mental powers. In this matter
|) | a physical medium stands isolated from others much
(| subjected to spiritual influx. Although the execution
) j of a great work by an artist or an author is followed
k by a period of exhaustion, this interval can be occu-
J)j pied in preparatory studies for fresh creations. Oon-
I (\ sequently we may look with apprehension on the effect
;j of this law of reaction whenever the medium is left
Kj to himself while it lasts. If no duty draws our
|) | hands to labour at a fixed time, we follow the im-
m pulses of the moment. Idle desires and vaga-
|) | bon dising may be the result to a terrible extent, if
| j not checked by inner resistance and culture. Thus
j/j • loafers among inferior actors earn their livelihood by
Hi a small expenditure of time and mental power ; but
the cravings of some physical mediums, with the
H| length of a day before them, may tend to a downward
) I course, and who now warns each rolling stone to alter
(j its course ? This law of moral gravitation now meets
) | no counter-action ? What is the use, on seeing a
\ | fellow falling from the roof of a house, of merely crying
| | out f- Mind the lamp-post!” on perceiving with
HI. terror that threatened death-stroke in the line of the
( fall? Where passion is not checked in its sweeping
Hj current, no preaching of sermons, no pointing to
Hi proper conduct is of any avail in the face of the
Hi temptations of the moment; these take the rein, and
in defy even the warnings of endangered health and
j life. All these dangers stare us in the face when we
I (| are placed before the abyss of time, without the obli-
>| gation to occupy the greater part of it in useful work,
jn Remembering this, and with the positive fact in
i j view that frequently-rexercised powerful physical
(I mediumship excludes a regular daily life profession,
l j j we might on first impressions condemn professional
U mediumship altogether, but for the immense work
j)j and mission in the world it has to fulfil. That
|) | mediums have been called into existence through all
|) | ages, demonstrates a design of Providence at the root
i(| of the matter ; and to let mediums be crushed again
|; | under the foot of bigoted, blinded science, would be a
j(| shame to the enlightened nineteenth century. For-
| tunately we have mediums who dispose of their spare
(j time without offending society, and the grave respon-
|)| sibility of using these “instruments” loses thereby
|)| much of its weight, although the examining of the
||| manner in which others “kill” the vast surplus of
Hi their free time fills me with apprehension. Perhaps
V' [ smoking* drinking, shop-gating, and all sorts of use-
Oct. 81, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
206
less but busy nothing-doing form the background of
a few hours' spiritual manifestations, and those Spirit¬
ualists who feel inclined to know the reality of the
whole picture are somewhat puzzled by it, especially
if the “ invisibles ” are slow to protest against the
vagabondising tendencies of the instruments for
externalising divine revelations. But to fix the eyes
on the dark side of the picture only would be unjust,
unfair. The whole panorama is a muddle. Ma¬
terialism has made us so vulgar, that we rush with
unwashed hands to welcome
“Angels, ever bright and fair,”
who speedily retire as a rule, and leave the field to
inferior spiritual intelligences, especially circles
formed at random. This confused mixing of idealistic
with selfish, brutish aspirations in the quick change
now taking place to build up the philosophy of the
future is interesting, although not always pleasant to
behold. Many ornaments, hastily put on, have to be
knocked off; and I should not be surprised to see
some fine morning an illustration in Punch, in which
fair Britannia gently kicks off the national cap from
the British National Association of Spiritualists;
for I hold that neither she nor John Bull would
tolerate, a premature glory of “ nationality ” where
mean designs of self find room. This tossing and
knocking about in Vanity Fair, particularly in the
tents of fashion, under the blaze of the new spiritual
light, will last some time yet; but let us now take
heed, and begin by placing the more deserving
mediums in a just and fair position, after studying
their grand mission and the dangers surrounding
them. A clergyman spends only a few hours in pre¬
paring aud delivering a sermon, but, if he be a good
man, knows how to fill the remainder of the week
without resorting to idle loafing. He may visit the
sick and needy. A medium, if able to read with
ease, finds enough to study, and can cultivate his
mind, and so honestly deserve pleasant recreation.
If he thus acquired a refined state of self-culture, the
medium might be the prince of the day ; but as long
as he knocks about in society according to the mere
impression of the moment after being released from
his “ cabinet," and furthermore troubles others with
his real and sham difficulties, progress will be marred
by the same instruments which are opening new
vistas in knowledge. - If I can inspire others to take
up the pen to promote the welfare of our mediums, I
have succeeded in my present task.
Momington-road, London, N.W.
Mu. J. A. Campbell, B.A., is contributing a series of inte¬
resting artistic articles to a new journal called St. Luke. One
comic periodical suggested the journal ought rather to have
been named Mark, and its motto, “ Read, mark, learn, and
inwardly digest.”
Mu. Berks Hutchinson, of Cape Town, was recently knocked
down and slightly injured by a furiously driven baker’s cart.
The Cape Times, in allusion to his narrow escape from severe
injury, and to his Spiritualism, remarks that “ sweet little
cherubs £ evidently keep watch over his life.
Religious Mania.—An inquest was opened yesterday on the
body of Mrs. Bell, wife of a retired tradesman at North Ormesby,
aged 64, who left her home on Wednesday last, stating she was
going to Middlesborough. Her body was afterwards found in
the sea at Saltburn, some twelve miles from Middlesborough.
She had taken a return ticket on Wednesday, and apparently
gone on the pier,, and jumped into the sea. She left her bag,
containing a book, with her name, and her shawl on the pier seats.
The act is attributed to religious mania.—The Echo, Oct. 25.
MANIFESTATIONS I HA YE SEEN.
BY LOUISA ANDREWS.
It is difficult for me to believe that what one of
I your correspondents very justly characterises as “a
j scandalous aspersion on Dr. Slade,” should have
| emanated from the source to which it is attributed.
Probably no one in London has known Dr. Slade so
j long or so intimately as it has been my privilege to
j know him; and not only can I say, for -myself, that
| I firmly believe him to be as honest as he is powerful
I in his mediumship, but I can also assure you that
I those who have known him longest and best are
| those who most confide in and respect him as a
| genuine medium, and a good, true-hearted man.
| There is not in London, nor elsewhere, a medium
I who has done a greater work for Spiritualism, nor
I one who has obtained more convincing 1 phenomena
in the light of day, or more unquestionable materiali¬
sations by gas light, without curtain or cabinet,
than Dr. Slade. Dr. Wyld’s very rational desire that
the medium and :the spirit form might be seen at
one and the same time would have been amply
gratified had he been favoured with such seances as
I have many times enjoyed with this wonderful sensi¬
tive. It required no special effort or condition in
these sittings to see, and often to touch, both spirit
and medium simultaneously. The spirit lips moved
and spoke, sometimes to Slade and sometimes to me,
and no two individuals in the flesh could be
more apparently distinct and dissimilar than were
these manifesting spirits, and the man through whose
peculiar power they were enabled to become visible,
tangible, and audible. I can conceive of no con¬
ditions more simple, or more conclusive, than those
under which, with Dr. Slade, phenomena were pro¬
duced that usually occur under circumstances render¬
ing it extremely difficult, even for those who are
already Spiritualists, to convince themselves that the
appearances are not only genuine, but true materiali¬
sations of a spirit distinct from the medium.
In the light I have had a small spirit hand take my
watch from its pocket, and this hand holding the
watch has remained before my face long enough for
me to observe very deliberately its form and texture.
Also, in the light of a summer morning, I have had
a ring taken from the medium’s watch chain (no
third person being present, and his hands holding
mine on top of the table), the watch being carefully
unfastened in order to draw off the ring, and then
replaced and restored to his pocket; while the spirit
hand, passing under the table, put the ring upon my
finger, and afterwards caressed me with soft pattings,
appearing, though small and very white, to be as
firm as that of a living child.
In trance speaking, during his seances, I have
heard from Slade’s lips words as good and true as
from those of any other inspirational speaker to
whom I have had the pleasure of listening, either in
America or in London. Were he to give himself up
exclusively to this form of mediumship, I think there
would be found few, if any, to surpass him; and such
a change would be indeed one to be lamented, since,
while we have so many speakers more or less fluent,
and more or less admired, it is so very rare to find a
medium whose power covers so much ground, and
enables investigators to obtain, in the light, con-
Oct. 31, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
207
vincing evidences of the reality of the phenomena, R
that we could ill afford to lose one from this rich I)
harvest-field, where the competent labourers are so j<
few. While appreciating test mediumship as highly, j>
I believe, as any one can, I do not feel called upon to l(
depreciate phenomenal Spiritualism. Only in its j)
abuse is it to be deprecated. Without phenomena we K
should know nothing of that marvellous “debatable j)
land” which lies between this and the world of K
spirits. We might believe what lips claiming to be |)
inspired tell us ; but we should lose what nothing K
could replace—a knowledge gained, as the knowledge |)
of human beings is meant to be, through the senses, |(
of a condition of life and a source of power well-nigh j>
inconceivable to us without such experiences. K
If Dr. Slade be a “charlatan,” then I should say j>
that genuine mediumship is a thing of the imagina- j\
tion, not to be demonstrated by any amount of |)
observation or investigation. To very few have n
spiritual gifts so great and so various been accorded, U
while he is at the same time modest and unpre- \)
tending; making no claim to an educational culture j(
which he does not possess, and invariably kind and n
charitable in his judgment of others. Much as I U
have talked with him in the freedom of daily inter- n
course, I have never heard him speak a harsh or (
ungenerous word of another medium, nor claim for K
himself, even by implication, undue pre-eminence.
It was not “Spiritualism” that was disgraced by >
“ an American medium” in London. The disgrace |<
and the loss were all with those whose ignorance and 0
bigotry banished from England the man of all others
most needed there to-day by intelligent investi- |)
gators of spiritual manifestations: a medium through j (
whom all forms and evidences of medial power |)
might have been studied ; either those considered by j(
some the highest, or such as are more appreciated by i>
scientific investigators who desire facts which may be j (
observed under perfectly satisfactory conditions.
It is with hesitation and reluctance that I j(
have come forward in this way, for I have !)
no desire to swell the tide of discordant discussion, j (
which seems just now almost to overwhelm and )
drown for us the still, small voice of Truth; but I ! j
could not refrain from speaking a just word in \)
behalf of one most worthy, and to whom I owe so K
much of that light from the unseen world, which k
penetrates even to the darkest recesses of life.
J5A, Maschmttllinweg, Gottingen, Germany.
A Trance Medium from Australia.—The following: docu- j|
ment has been sent us for publication:—"Thomas Walker in |j
England.—At a meeting of the Macclesfield Association of Spirit- j)
ualists, the following resolutions were moved by Mr. Hammond, f
seconded by Mr. Hoyle, and carried unanimously—‘That whereas js
Mr. Thomas Walker, having recently returned from abroad, and j>
being comparatively unknown as a public speaker upon Spirit- I)
ualism and kindred topics in this his native land, we, the Maccles- |<
field Association of Spiritualists, after hearing him deliver six very | \
eloquent lectures in our hall, do cordially recommend him to our j)
brother co-workers and Spiritualists in the United Kingdom, )
feeling convinced that his labours will benefit the cause of Spirit- j (
ualism and humanity wherever he is heard; and for this purpose i \
be it resolved, that Mr. Walker has never been surpassed upon j)
our platform as a public speaker, and that his lectures upon i)
science we have never heard equalled.’—‘Resolved, that copies of ;)
this be sent to the principal Spiritualistic papers at home and : (
abroad.’—Signed, George Rogers, President; Edward Ham- K
mond. Treasurer; Mrs. E. Woollam, Hon. Sec.—October !)
27th, 1879.” \l
THE DOCTRINE OF TOTAL DEPRAVITY.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—I send you a copy of a clever cutting I have, but I
cannot tell where it came from. G. M.
Edinburgh, October 20th, 1879.
A PREACHMENT.
" The church bell, which elsewhere calls people together to
worship God, calls them together in Scotland to listen to a
preachment f—Isaac ^Taylor.
His text was one that gave him room
To fume, and fulminate, and make
The house of God a house of gloom.
In which to make the sinner quake.
Corruption was the theme of it.
And Hell the lurid gleam of it.
Mankind, he preached, were poisoned through,
Corrupt without, corrupt within,
Black was the universal hue.
“ In short,” said he, “ the rock of sin,
On every side has wrecked you all.
Moral and intellectual.”
He proved each man from head to foot
A mass of putrefying sore.
Thoughts festering in a heart of soot,
Sin oozing out at every pore;
The body and the soul of us,
The devil had the whole of us.
He loved his theme, ’twas clear enough.
For all the rottenness and dirt
And rank defilement of the stuff,
One felt he had the thing at heart,
He bugged it so and handled it,
And dressed it up and dandled it.
Then plunging past the gates of death
He mixed the sinner’s awful cup,
Till hot and red he stopp’d for breath,
And mopped the perspiration up.
If terror could refashion us,
He did not spare the lash on us.
I saw him when his task was done,
His gown and morals packed away;
His deep self-satisfaction won;
His reeking supper on the tray;
And looking through the smoke of it,
’Twas then I saw the joke of it.
The pious wrath, the wordy run,
From practised mouth too glibly poured.
Which makes us feel that we have done
Some special service for the Lord.
Oh, the deceiving seed of it!
The tongue without the deed of it.
Mrs. Louisa Andrews is in Gottingen.
Spiritualistic Soiree.—The first soiree held this season at
38, Great Russell-street, London, took place last Monday. The
programme consisted of instrumental music, singing, and recita¬
tions by Miss Catherine Poyntz, Miss Terry, the Misses Withall,
Mr. E. A. Tietkins, and the Marquis dh Lenville. An attractive
feature of the evening was the exhibition of several drawings,
pictures, and other objects of interest, kindly lent by members of
the Association for the occasion. The rooms were very well
filled.
208
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 81, 1879.
THE APPARITION OE SIR JOHN OWEN.
FrO'M Horace Weldy’s ‘6 Sink's before Death”
Sir JohN Owkn was a |Dersdii of Aotd, and of Well-
known credit; his lady and O'iie of her sons liv£d in
London; and being of a gay dnd expensive dispo¬
sition, it was thought she lived beyond what the
knight could afford; and that he was sensible of it
and uneasy about it. She had a good house in
London, and a country house, or lodgings for the
summer, at Hampstead, and kept a splendid
equipage.
It happened one day, Lady Owen being at her
country lodgings, that a person well-dressed, in ap¬
pearance a gentleman, calle.d at her city house, and
knocking at the door, asked ihe maid if there were
any lodgings to be let there, and if her lady was at
home ? On the servant’s evincing some anger at so
O o
rude a question—<s Well,” ssiid he, “ don’t be dis¬
pleased ; your lady ba^ had some thoughts of staying
at her summer lodgings all the winter, and so would
dispose of some apartments in town for the Parlia¬
ment season, and I ani directed by herself to look
at the rooms, and give my answer; let me but just
see them, I shall do you no barmhe then entered,
and, as it were, pushed by her, and going into the
first parlour, sat down ih an easy chair, bis servant
waiting at the door; and as the maid did not appre¬
hend any mischief, she followed him.
When she came ih he rose up, and looking
about the; room, found fault with the furniture,
and the disposition of it; all was too good, too
rich, and far above the quality of the owner; and
said that the lady did not know what she did, that
it was an expense: she could not support; and that
such a mode of living would bring her and all the
family to ruin and beggary.
The servant now conducted hitn into another
parlour, where he found tile sands fault: he told her
he was surprised that her lady lived at so extrava¬
gant a rate, as Sir John’s estate could not maintain
it; that it wotild rtm him into debt and ruin him ;
and thus he Would be undone by her extravagance.
Upon this the maid retorted, and told him that
this was foreign to what. he came about; if the
lodgings were too good for him, that was his business
indeed, else he. had nothing to do with her lady’s
conduct, and the furniture of her house; that her
master was a gentleman of great estate, and had
large plantations in Jamaica; that he constantly
supplied her lady with money sufficient for her
support, and for all her expenses; and she wondered
that he should interfere.
The stranger now calmly entered into conversation
about Lady Owen, and her way of living, and told
many of the secrets of the family, so that the servant
began to be more courteous.
She tried several times to learn who he wa,s, his
rank, country, name, and address; blit he always
declined, only telling her he would go to Hampstead,
where Lady Owen lodged-j and wait upon her himself;
and thanking the servant for her civility, he left the
house, his servant following him.
The girl now became much alarmed at these
curious coincidences and circumstances. At length
she went to give her lady an account of what had
happened. On reaching Hampstead, she found her
mistress very ill. At first she was refused admittance,
blit she urged her eitraordihaty business. “ What
extraordinary business can you have r Said the lady’s
maid, tauntingly; “if your business was from the
devil you can’t speak with my lady just how, for she
is very ill in bed.”
From the devil,” said Mary, “ I don’t know,but it
may, and I believe it is indeed; so I must speak With
my lady immediately.”
•.Mbxl replied the woman, “ here has been one
messenger top many from the devil already, 1 think;
sure yp'ii don’t borne of his errand too, do ye ?”
“ I don’t know whose errand I come of, but I apr
frightehed out of my wits; let me speak With my
lady presently, or I shall die before I deliver my
message.”
“ Lie !” said the woman; “ I wish my lady may
not die before she hears it; pry’thee Mary, if it be any
thing tO frighten her, dont tell it her just now, for
she is almost frightened to death already.”
“Why,” said Mary, “ has ffiy lady seen anything?”
“Ay, ay : seen!” said the wOman. “ She has seen and
heard too; there has been a man who has brought
her dreadful tidings.”
They talked so loud, that the lady heard the noise,
and immediately rang the bell for her maid. When
the WOman went ih, “ Who is that below,” said the
lady, “talking, so earnestly? Is anybody come
from London f’ “ Yes, madam,” said the woman,
“ here is Mary come to speak to your ladyship.”
“ Mary coihe !” said she, in a surprise; “ what can be
the matter! why, sure, has she seen something too ?
Mercy bn hie, what’s the matter—what does she
|||.f j
At leiigth Mary entered the room, and the woman
was ordered to withdraw.
As soon hs the door was shut, the lady burst into
tears. “ 0, Mary,” said she, “ I have had a dreadful
visit this afternoon; your master has been here.”
“ My master! why, madam, that’s impossible.”
“ Nay, it was your master I am sure.”
In a word, the apparition of her husband had told
her his estate would not support her expensive way
of living, and that she would bring herself to misery
and poverty, and much more to the same purpose as
he had said to Mary*
Mary immediately asked her ladyship in what
manner he appeared; and by the description that
her mistress gave, it was exactly the same figure that
had appeared to her, and desired to see the lodgings ;
then Mary gave her ladyship a particular relation of
what had happened to her also, and of the message
she was charged to deliver.
The lady was ultimately reduced, and obliged to
sell her splendid furniture and equipage. But the
most remarkable incident is, that just at this juncture,
Sir John Owen, the lady’s husband, died in the West
Indies.
This relation is taken from a manuscript, in the
possession of Sir Owen Ap Owen, of Brecknockshire;
and the cirqumstance happened in the beginning of
the reign of Queen Anne.
Mr, W. Eglinton is now in Bohemia, and he expects to be
back in London soon after November 5th. He sends interesting
details about the progress Spiritualism is making in the various
Continental towns he has visited.
Oct. 3i, 1879.
THE SPIKITUALiST.
209
THE PtlO&RESS OE SPlRiTUALlSM IN GERMANY. |j
&Y DM. cL SLdfe±)JE. |>|
The controversy rbiised in Gerniany throiigli the j(j
advent of Henry Slade is well illustrated by a few j j I
quotations^ which I give below, from a Masonic K|
paper, entitled Latomia, and published in Leipzic, >|
that great emporium of science, which, through the m
labours of Professor Zollner and others, has become j)|
the centre of the coming struggle against the despotic jj
rule of gross Materialism. In the number of August ) j
15th, I find in the above-named semi-monthly publi- \j
qation, under the head of “ Spiritualism,” the follow- /|
ing remarks :— |
“ Materialism is more and naore breaking down. /1
Not alone that its chief apostle shows signs of con- |
version; certain phenomena, which admit of no ) j
explanation whatever after the universal world- \\
pattern of the Materialists, are constantly taking /j
the foreground, and—what is of particular import- \j
ance—are enlisting in a growing measure the att.en- )j
tion of the men of science. Materialism is / doc- 5
trinaire,’ like any other system claiming the exclusive )
power of beatification. This is shown clearly by ob- )
serving that the adherents of Materialism, who lay (j
such an extraordinary and decisive stress on facts, if )j
you look at these closely, do not recognise any other u
facts than those they are able to explain, whilst )!
everything surpassing their horizon they declare to l\
be—humbug! As long as a learned man like Pro- )i
fessor Zollner, of Leipzic, who has a high reputation (i
as an explorer of nature and a skilled thinker, ; j
keeps within the bounds of matter-adoring Ma- (j
terialism, he is their man; but as soon as the >|
same trustworthy experimenter, who indeed ought m
to be competent to judge what is a fact and what !)j
is not, is led by certain phenomena to overstep the ju
one-rsided standpoint of Empiricism and Atomism, j
and declares the world to be more than mere Jsj
mechanism, then the Materialists proclaim that the j /
domain of the true and the real takes its end, and j
that of error, or at least imagination, begins.
“Such phenomena and facts, however, curiously !s
enough at present, rouse an inconvenient opposition )
to Materialism within the very camp of, the \
naturalists themselves. j)|
“ All the experiments Professor Zollner has made m
with the assistance of the American Slade, and Ji
mostly in the presence of other scientists, were not m
instituted iii the dark or twilight, but in broad day- ?!
light, so nothing has been neglected to authenticate H
them as facts. Besides this, the well-known presti- j?j
digitator Bellachini has publicly pronounced Slade’s m
art to be one specifically different from his own, and (
surpassing the domain of jugglery.”
Here follows a short mention of Zollner’s theory H
of a fourth dimension of space, in explanation of m
the facts established by him, whereupon our author j) j
continues :— \ |
“ Moreover our explorer has made his experiments
on a perfectly realistic basis. He carefully avoids |{
any reference to theology, any curiosity in regard to )j
the conditions of a hereafter, any inquiry into the )i
connection between disembodied and living earthly <!
existences, any attempt at procuring proofs of the )
immortality of the soul, or a future compehsation. (j
What he gives us is, as we said, mere facts, and a
thebry based on these ; he only demands that those
be examined arid their exfjlahhtion be attempted.
“ Eveii if this (Zollhef’sj theory should not be
found tenable, much is already established: That we
fcaUhot remain satisfied with the habitual, one-sided
mechanical world theory, and that the natural
phenomefia have to be referred to some high creative
bauSe.
“If this be so, however, it proves the great inr-
portance of Spiritualism and medial experiments.
Ever progressing investigation will succeed in making
ever eiilarged use of the observed facts, and deep
effects will result therefrom to our religious and
moral interests.,\
I have thought it worth while to bring these
Sensible remarks of a German periodical devbted to
a partibular interest to the notice of Aniericah
readers, as they show hbw the little spiritual spark,
which thirty years figo flew from these shores over
the Atlantic, soon to be smothered by the elaborate
apparatus of sciefitific Materialism, has at last been
reblown into life and action, and is promising to
kindle a blazing flame which will work the destruc-
fioh of the matter-adoring fabric, and serve as a
beacon to a great truth-loving and truth-seeking
n ation.—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
Brooklyn, September, 1879.
MUSICAL SERVICES AT ST. ANDREW’S,
TAVISTOCK-PLACE.
A CORRESPONDENT writes :—
“Archdeacon Dunbar has brought the musical
services of the Church of England to a degree of
elaboration and perfection not hitherto attempted.
“He has long advocated the use of an orchestra, for
he observed on one occasion: ‘ An organ is but an
apology for an orchestra, just as a harmonium is
but an apology for an organ.’
“Archdeacon Dunbar was the first to introduce
oratorios as parts of Divine Service.
“ He also introduced orchestral masses for the
Communion Service. His example has been very
largely followed by at least one cathedral (St. Paul’s,
where the oratorio of St. Paul was rendered devo-
tionally, and as part of the service), and by many
parish churches in London and in other towns. For
the first time at St. Paul’s, Wilton-place, the Hymn
of Praise (Mendelssohn) was sung at the Harvest
Festival this year.
“Though other churches have not, as regards
strength of orchestra and number of professional
choir, carried the music to the same point of perfec¬
tion, they have had well-rendered oratorios. Of
course voluntary choirs, with merely a few pro¬
fessional leaders, or orchestras partly composed of
volunteers, can never arrive at the same exactness in
music as entirely professional choirs, such as that of
St. Andrews, or orchestras entirely professional, and
with the chief soloist of each instrument.
“ St. Andrew’s is proprietary, but the aisles are
free. On Sunday next, being within the octave of
‘All Saints,’ there are to be solemn services,
orchestral, both morning and evening. The anthem
in the morning, at the eleven o’clock service, will be
“Blessed be the God and Father,” by Wesley; the
Communion Service, at 2.15, will be to Gounod’s
Oct. 31, 1879
210
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Messe Solennelle; and after the seven o’clock evening j j
service will be sung Spohr’s Last Judgment. An j j
oratorio is sung every Sunday evening, and the j\
evening service is always orchestral. The choir j \
numbers over one hundred voices, and is accompanied j j
by complete orchestra, Mr. John Stedman directs the j)
music. The preacher on Sunday next, morning and I)
evening, will be the incumbent, the Yen. Archdeacon )
Dunbar.”
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN STOCKHOLM.
The following report has been sent to us by some jj
Stockholm Spiritualists :— j j
On the 22nd of September Mr. Eglinton came to jj
Stockholm at the invitation of some Spiritualists in j<
this town. The day after his arrival Mr. Eglinton jj
commenced to give seances, of which, out of eighteen ! (
in all, only two can be deemed total failures, owing, j j
according to the opinion of the medium, to certain j(
bad conditions both of the weather and the compo- jj
sition of the circle. j(
At one seance the following objects were put upon j
the table, around which the medium and all the other \ (
persons present formed a chain—a guitar, a musical jj
box, a handbell, a few sheets of paper, some pencils, j (
a roll of music made into a tube or trumpet by the jj
medium, a fan, and a mouth harmonium, this last j)
being brought by Mr. Eglinton. After the light had j j
been put out a voice was heard, which we were told j j
was that of Daisy, a spirit, who greeted us all very j)
kindly, and told us that she and another would try j j
to give us some manifestations. I)
The guitar was lifted up and played upon while jj
floating above the circle, and it touched many of us j)
by turns. The handbell was carried about, ringing jj
merrily. Once a small but very clear light was seen j j
attached to or following it, which made it possible jj
for us to see its swinging movements in the air. jj
The musical box was audibly wound up and floated I j
about, playing. j)
A frequently-heard small voice told us to command j j
the musical box to play quickly or slowly, forte or <
piano, a few tones or a whole tune, to continue jj
playing or to stop. Every wish that was expressed j(
was instantly and punctually complied with.
The same spirit told us that it was he who played jj
several tunes on the floating mouth harmonium, such Ij
as “ The last Rose of Summer,” u Yankee Doodle,” j {
“ Home, sweet Home,” and others, all rendered with j j
excellent taste and expression.
The fan was carried about, by turns fanning and jj
rapping most of the persons present.
A sound of writing was heard, and we afterwards j
found the following words written on the paper:— <
“ Joey is with you, and likes you all very much.”
Afore-mentioned tube or trumpet was used, when j'
a deep, sonorous voice, said to belong to a spirit i,
called Ernest, spoke to us. All the communications j
obtained from that spirit were characterised by j)
earnestness and charity, and always ended by a j
solemn calling down of the Lord’s blessing on us all. !
Several times we saw a luminous cross, and we
were told by the said Ernest that this belonged to
him. He added : “ No cross, no crown.”
Besides the above-mentioned wonderful manifesta¬
tions we saw some more or less distinct materialisa¬
tions, sometimes while the medium was reclining on
a sofa in front of the circle, and at other times when
he was placed in a cabinet. The most distinct
materialisation was that of a bearded man, who was
said to be Abdullah. The materialised figures held
in their hands some object from which emanated a
clear light, which made it possible to see (although
not so distinctly as to recognise) their faces.
Many of us were touched by soft hands, in a
caressing "way.
Heavy articles of furniture were lifted on to the
table, around which the medium and all the other
persons present formed a chain.
At the beginning of some of the seances the
medium was lifted up from his chair, and was for a
time floated horizontally, touching with his feet the
heads of the persons sitting on the opposite side of
the table.
The number of the persons present at the stances
varied from seven to eleven, besides the medium.
Among these were also representatives of nobility,
officers of high rank both in the army and the navy,
artists, scientific men of great reputation, partly
Spiritualists, partly sceptics.
Stockholm, Oct. 21st, 1879.
RELIGIOUS SOLITUDES IN SUSSEX.
BY J. T. MARKLEY, AUTHOR OP “ STRAY THOUGHTS ON MANY
THEMES.”
Writing from the Christian standpoint, but still
interested in psychic experiments, I have often failed
to understand why so many Spiritualists attack the
old historic churches. Enlightenment in theology is
one thing. Abuse of old traditions, customs, faiths,
and religious devotees is quite another matter, and
less easy of justification. My duties in connection
with a morning newspaper recently led me into the
romantic retreats of the Carthusian and Capuchin
monks in the South of England. I was struck with
the unconscious spiritualistic ideal which underlied
the discipline, the daily experience, and the devout
sentiment found in the monasteries which I visited
in Sussex.
Can it be that this remarkable revival of
medisevalism in the nineteenth century is a protest
against the gross worldliness and materialism—
vulgar and scientific—in our midst ? At any rate,
there is such a profound soul-force, such a wealth of
faith in things extra-natural to be found in the
regular cloistered experience of the modern monks,
that their abstract prayings, fastings, and solemnity
of intermittent song seem to be a perpetual stance,
full of religious revelation.
But before I touch upon the interior habits of the
monks, I may explain that not far from the South
coast, in a lonely part of the Sussex woodland
scenery, a monastery is being completed for the
Carthusians. When finished it will be the largest
block of buildings of the kind in England, and
perhaps cover more space than York Cathedral.
Erected in a wild forest solitude, the vastness of the
monastery gives it quite a Continental aspect. It is
to be further developed in the exterior surroundings
by extensive groves and gardens, parterres of flowers,
and all those natural and artificial bursts of scenic
Oct. 31. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 211
beauty which the recluse mind so dearly loves as a
stimulant to the pious imagination during the long
dreamy hours of the monastic life.
As to the building itself, it is to be dedicated to
St. Hugh. The present monks in residence will be
increased by “Brethren” from Italy, France, Ger¬
many, Switzerland, and Belgium. It is a gigantic
edifice, and covers a square of several acres of the
quiet pasture grounds and woods lying away to the
left of Steyning and Partridge Green. At present,
although the suite, of semi-detached chapels, or cells,
is roofed in, and enclosed by a high “ Monastic ”
wall, it is no easy matter to define the vastness and
architectural coherence of an erection, or rather a
series of erections, so conspicuous and imposing.
The outer walls enclose four aisles—of cathedral
length and beauty of design, airy, and stone-fretted,
through which the monks can parade, on the ground
floor, all round the building. Above this aisle, and
inclining to the scores of little flower gardens
and “ contemplative ” retreats, are rooms, spacious
and lofty, which in due time will be occupied by a
host of English and Continental monks ; each of
whom will be allowed several rooms. This require¬
ment makes the block of buildings very extensive, and
will give the Monastery of St. Hugh much religious
importance when in full working order. The un¬
covered area, enclosed by the outer erections, and
hidden from the “ World,” is to be beautifully orna¬
mented, and will resemble some of the courtyards
in the large convents abroad. A tower and spire of
immense height, over the great halls and near the
southern entrance gates, will proclaim Carthusian
self-sacrifice to all the region round about for many
miles. Hundreds of men have been engaged already
several years upon this wonderful erection; tens of
thousands of pounds have been expended; and the
buildings are only completed as regards the outline
plans of the exterior. Several foreign monks are
already in residence in the finished parts, and I
found them at once affable, intellectual, and intensely
visionary and spirituelle in their bearing. They
look as shy and sensitive as some of the
trance mediums of the Spiritualists. The
steady, emboldened gaze of ordinary worldlings
seems to discomfort these strange monks. There
is upon them evidently the agony of highly-wrought
ghostly experiences, such as we read of in the lives
of the saints. Their very traditions and mode of
living suggest the religious rapture and self-abnega¬
tion of the middle ages. In reply to my queries
these Sussex immigrants tell me that they are Car¬
thusians, and were founded by St. Bruno, in the
mountains of Grenoble, in France, in the year 1084.
The eighth centenary of this Order will, therefore, be
in five years’ time. St. Bruno was a German, a native
of Cologne. He ended his days in Italy, at a
monastery founded by him in Calabria, where his
remains now are. Although the Carthusian Order
has given the Church several bishops and cardinals,
and a great many authors, some of them writers of
most voluminous works, still the Order is contempla¬
tive, not active. Carthusian life is a life of religious
retirement, to be spent in prayer, meditation, reading
of pious books, and various exercises of devotion.
Some time is allotted to manual labour, especially if
1| a monk has a taste for mechanical work, such as
| bookbinding, and sometimes printing, or carpentry,
i &c. Each monk has a small garden to cultivate for
| flowers; and, having a few fruit trees, these occupa-
| tions serve to vary the dulness and monotony of a
| solitary life. When a monastery is completely built the
m regular organised monastic observance is established,
|)i with a sufficient number of monks to carry it out.
m The life is then a life of seclusion, though modified
jjj so as to allow conversation for nearly two hours on
m Sundays and feast days. When no feast falls during
jjj the week there is no recreation allowed from Sunday
m to Sunday, except one day in every week, which is
iff appointed for a long walk in the country, and this
j)j walk is generally for about two and a half hours,
jjj The monks go to church every day for mass, which is
j)j sung in the morning, vespers in the afternoon, and
Iji matins at midnight. On Sundays and feasts all the
j)j canonical hours are chanted in church, except com-
jjj pline. Carthusians never eat meat, even in time of
j)j sickness. Fish and vegetables are always allowed by
jjj the rule, and eggs, butter, and cheese, except in Lent,
jjj Advent, and all Fridays in the year. Wine is also
j j j allowed by the rule.
After giving me a long explanation of their
jjj favourite authors, literary studies, and spiritual
jjj exercises, they attack my Protestant incredulity with
jjj the following argument in favour of their ghostly in-
jjj spiration. The father rector said:—“Persons who
jjj do not appreciate the usefulness of a contemplative
jjj Order, should recollect that if the Order is useful to
ijj the Carthusians themselves, that would be quite
jjj sufficient; and when I say usefulness, I mean moral
jj and religious usefulness. But we must deny the
jjj efficacy of prayer, if we want to deny the utility of
jjj such an Order to society at large. In the book of
jjj Exodus we find an instance to the point when Moses,
jjj by the passive lifting up of his hands, enabled Israel
jjj to obtain the victory. The work of the Carthusian
jjj is to imitate Moses on the hill, and to pray for the
m world, from which he is severed. We see in the fore-
jjj going instance that though Moses was not engaged
ijj in the battle, he did more for the victory of Israel
jjj than the warriors actually engaged in the fight,
jjj And so it is with contemplative Orders; they obtain
jjj more by prayer than all the missionary Orders by
jjj preaching, instructing, catechising, and by the ad-
jji ministration of the Sacraments. In fact, the
jjj abundant fruit of a sermon will often be owing, not
Ijj so much to the eloquence, fervour, and other qualities
jjj of the preacher, as to the prayers of some unknown
Ijj soul, who lives in the retirement of a lonely cloister
jjj of religion. Society reaps the benefit of prayers thus
jjj offered up in its behalf, without knowing who has
jjj moved the Almighty, and warded off the scourge ere
jjj it descended, and in the lieu thereof brought down
jjj Heaven’s blessings on the land. Such is the scope of
jjj Orders like those of St. Bruno and St. Romuald,
ijj which are solely devoted to a contemplative life.”
If this is not a kind of Catholic “ Spiritualism,” I
ijj am at a loss to define the meaning of recluse habits
jjj and opinions.
After visiting the foreign monks, I some days
jjj later had an interview with an Order of English
j j j Capuchins in Mid-Sussex, and was present during
\{\ the Feast of St. Francis, which was celebrated with
real i poetic pomp of ritual, and much spiritual
mystery. From early tnorning until nightfall it was
a grand seance of mtisic, prayer, and illuminated
devotion, heightened in effect by the half-trance
movenients of the monks. These religious solitudes
remind us of not a few of the scenes of prophet-
habitation in olden Biblical periods. If there is so
much rapture, imaginative glow of soul, and so many
“ entrancements ” among the monks of the Catholic
Church, is it not possible that visions are experienced,
and revelations vouchsafed, in the dim religious light
of the cloisters ?
15j Denne-road, Horsham.
SPIitlTUALtSM IN AUSTRALIA.
SriRtTUAilSM ANb the Mble.
La^t Monday’s mail froin Australia brought us the
following fair report of a lecture on Spiritualism,
published in the Ballarat Daily Courier of August
29th last:—
^ lecture entitled “The Spiritualism of the Bible
identical with Modern Spiritualism,” was delivered
last night by Mr. Jas. Curtis in the ,art gallery of the
Academy of Music. Mr. Maconochie was voted to
the chair, and the room was quite full. Mr. Curtis,
in opening the lecture, said that the importance of
his subject must be taken as an apology for his
appearing as a lecturer. He stated that Spiritualism
was now established as a fact, and was not founded
on mere opinion, and pointed out that its opponents
judged of it only by what they knew themselves.
They called it humbug or delusion, and when over¬
come by facts said it was the work of the devil.
Some said that it was not needed, but he thought
that for the great bulk, even of the Christian world,
the Bible was . not sufficient to assure them of
immortality. They required something more than
probabilities and analogies, and what they wanted
were the facts of Spiritualism, by which alone could
the question asked in the Book of Job be answered,
“ If a man die shall he live again ? ” With regard
to the statement that Spiritualists rejected the
teachings of the Bible, he would say that, on the
contrary, they found much in them according with
their views. The lecturer stated that some time ago
the Rev. J. Walker asserted in his sermons that the
Bible was against Spiritualism. A challenge was
issued to the reverend gentleman, the challenger
offering to find twenty texts in the Bible in favour of
Spiritualism for every one against it. The challenge
was not t&ken up, but it set the lecturer to work to
find out Bible texts bearing on the subject, and
these he had compiled in the form of a lecture. He
stated, in the first place, that the terms “ man ”
“ angel,” “ messenger,” ft saint,” f Lord,” “ God,” and
“ spirit,” were, as used in the Bible, interchangeable,
and the lecturer quoted examples from the books of
Gefiesis, Judges, Daniel, Mark, and Revelations to
show this was the case. In referring to angels as
ministering spirits, the lecturer quoted Paul’s remaik
in Hebrews xii. 12, 23, “An innumerable company
of angels, spirits of just men made perfect,” and
numerous other texts, -adding that he believed there
was not a book in the Bible that did not contain
something concerning the ministry of angels, and
referring to their frequent appearance before men,
and their ministering to them. . The lecturer went
on to say there was scarcely a doubt but that every
individual had one of more angels or spiritual guides
about him guarding him from numerous . unseen
dangers. He thought there was no doubt that
those of their friends and relatives who liad
passed oyer were willing to communicate with them,
and related instances in which he himself had com¬
muned with the. spirits of departed friends. The
lecturer then read communications he had received
from the spirits of departed friends. He then
referred to spirit-writing, and instanced a communi¬
cation which jehoram, King of Judah, received from
Elijah, after the latter had been in the spirit land
seven years; He quoted the 11th verse of the 28th
chapter in the, Book of Chronicles to show that
David received instructions about the building of the
temple from a spirit; these instructions were given
by David to Solomon. Under this heading numerous
authenticated instances of spirit - writing were
adduced, and the lecturer then passed On to speak of
Dr. Slade and Baron Guldenstubbe, and of their
wonderful powers in connection with spirit-writing in
almost every known language. The lecturer then
passed on to the subject of trances, and, quoting from
the Acts, showed that Peter and Paul were both
mentioned as falling into trances, and quoted from
Numbers to show that the same, occurred to Balaam,
his eyes remaining open. The lecturer asserted that
the books of Isaiah, jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel
were sufficient, with other quotations, to show that
the trance was a not uncommon state then, or in all
ages. In speaking of spiritual gifts, the lecturer said
they varied—to some they were words of wisdom ; to
others the words of knowledge, faith, gifts of healing,
wprking of miracles, prophecy, and divers tongues.
He went on to show that Paul was a clairvoyant, a
clairaudient, a healer by mesmerism, and that Paul
and Moses had the power of transmitting these gifts
to others. Under the heading of healing, the
lecturer mentioned Elisha’s power in this respect,
and also the fact that a dead man, having touched
his bones, was restored to life. He mentioned
several cases of curing the infirm by mesmerism, and
affirmed that there were modern instances to verify
the ancient. The lecturer then gave an elaborate
account of the wonderful cures effected by Jacob,
the Zouave, who in many cases cured by simply
looking at the infirm persons, and telling them to
arise ; in others by the imposition of hands. The
lecturer stated that this Zouave cured an incredible
number of infirm, paralytic, helpless people without
using any medicine whatever. After mentioning the
works of other healers, he referred to levitation, and
quoted from the Acts to show that Philip was carried
thirty miles. He also stated, supported on the
authority of Kings, that Elijah was levitated, and
adduced several other instances in connection with
this heading. The lecturer then referred to clair-
audience, relating instances in which it was men¬
tioned in Ezekiel, Job, Acts, and Zechariab. The
lecturer then referred to spirit circles and the woman
of Endor, and concluded his lecture by telling of his
own spirit communications and trances^ and with
accounts of stances he had had with Dr. Slade and
Mr. Jesse Shepard.
|1|
THE SPIRITUALIST*.
OdT. 31, 1879.
Ofctf. 31, 1879. THE SPIRITTJALIST. 213
A vole of thanks was accorded Mr. Curtis for his k
able lecture ; and a vote of thanks to the chairman j)
terminated the proceedings.—The Ballarat Daily \
Vourier, >
“ riDELlTY ” AGATjt,
Sib,—Last week you published a letter from ine relating to j(
infbrmatioii supplied to the Banner of Light frbHi a writer signing j (
himself “ fidelity.” I did not subscribe my letter with my own !)
name, but I now do so, as I never make public observations |)
adverse to individuals under even the most transparent disguise j \
of my oWn personality.. I (
In the Banner of Light of October.llth is another London !)
letter from “fidelity,” in which the Whitehall Review article j)
is again vaunted. The American public is told, moreover, that l<
the English spiritual papers have not referred to the article in ||
question because Mr. Eletcher is ah American. h
Such ndnsense itbuld not, Of confse, require notice, except, j >
perhaps, to show what foolish things an American editor (and |)
for that matter some of our own) can be found to publish, seeing u
how prominently American mediums have from time to time been j \
recommended in your and other organs of English Spiritualism. I)
Mr. Eletcher, however, has to thank “ fidelity ” for compelling j)
attention to the true reason, as I cbhceive it; of the excellent | (
discretion exercised in ignoring the advertisement of him in that j \
not very widely-accepted organ of public opinion, the Whitehall i)
Review. . , , , j)
We have none of us quite forgotten Dr. Slade—his matchless i (
medium ship, his undeserved sufferings, our own united efforts
in his behalf, which identified him, and rightly, with English h
Spiritualism, and the best phenomenal evidence we have to offer |)
of its claims. Many of us think of him as of one who has done j (
at least as much to compel public and scientific recognition of j (
the facts of Spiritualism as any other medium in the world. Yet i)
Mr. Eletcher, who, as a member of Council of the British j)
National Association of Spiritualists, is an accepted representa- j)
tive of a large number of us, and by that description ought to ]r
represent us all, tells an interviewing gentleman of the press, for j i
the purpose of publication to the world, that Slade, though h
perhaps not an impbstor, was a <c charlatan,” and one who had ;)
“ disgraced Spiritnalism/5 which he, forsooth, Mr. Eletcher, ] <
had eome over from America expressly to restore to its fair j<
fame, ,; . I)
“ 1 mentioned no names,” says Mr. Eletcher; “I was told” h
an American medium had disgraced Spirithalism. NOwifMr. !<
Eletchet, when challenged on the subject, had manfully replied, j <
*' Yes, I did meak Slade ; I do think him a charlatan and a dis- j j
grace to Spiritualism ; that is my opinion, and 1 have a right to j 1
it,” I think the spirit of such a reply would have made rather a j
favourable impression on us than otherwise, however energetically M
we might have protested against Mr. Eletcher in his assumed i <
Capacity of a representative of English Spiritualists. But “ men- !'
tioned no names,” and “ was told!” Well, 1 need only to quote i \
this defence; surely there is no occasion to characterise it! But j
Mr. Eletcher “ was told ” this about Slade. By whom ? By a i <
Spiritualist, or by ah Outsider ? I hope “ Winona ” is not respon- |
sible for the statement. While the Slade case was going on, Mr. j
Eletcher was, I suppose, in America; but probably he read his
Banner of Light then, as now; and if so, he cannot have been h
ignorant of what was thought, by English and American Spirit- j
ualists alike,, of that cruel and unjust prosecution,* or of . the j
notorious fact that it was Spiritualism that was assailed and i<
sought to be struck down in the person of Slade. And now j<
‘‘ Eidelity ” complains that the editors of our Spiritualist papers p
have not stultified our opinions and our past conduct, and out- h
raged our sympathies with the unfortunate Slade, by reproducing |
this “ splendid ” Whitehall article, in which lie is thus vilified for j
the glorification and advertisement of Mr. Eletcher! That Mr. i <
Eletcher is a clairvoyant of extraordinary faculty I do not in the |'
least question; the fact rests upon cumulative and Unexception- j |
able testimony, which I heartily accept, though I have not j,
been myself permitted the opportunity of verifying it, and he is jj
high oh the list of mediums whom I always recommend inquiring j
friends to visit, not, certainly, for his sake, but for theirs. Yet I j \
much fear that, unless times are changed since 1876, he would jj
* By these words I do not mean to imply that those concerned in it had not 1
a full conviction that it was both just and righteous.
have as little chance at Bow-street against ignorance and preju¬
dice as had Slade himself. Should he ever be so unfortunately
situated—and no professional medium is safe—I hope he may
have, no cause, and we no disposition, to remember the article in
the Whitehall Review. C. 0. Massey.
Temple, Oct. 24th. ;—^——
Sib,—I beg for a second time to correct the misstatements of
your correspondents, who say that I have cast aspersions upon the
character of Dr. Slade. I have never done so in the Whitehall
Review, or any other paper, and I will not allow such assertions
jbo be made .unchecked.. It is a great, wonder who a “Slade
Committee Man” can be, who has lived in London and
thought the Whitehall Review one of the least-known journals,
I am not good at answering conundrums, and therefore must
be eicused ffom throwing light upon “ Eidelity’s ” identity.
J. William Eletcheb.
22, Gordon-street, W.C; 
SPIBITITALISM AND THE CHHBCHES.
Sib,—As my first letter seems to have stirred up a little con¬
troversy, perhaps I may be allowed to say a few more words on
Spiritualism in its relation tp faith and practice.
1 have entered on the subject in a tentative spirit, sincerely
desirous of information; Spiritualism has been described as
anti-Christian. Now, I wish to learn on what foundation. Why,
I ask, should spiritualistic pliehomeiia, accepted as being what
Spiritualists make out thfey are, militate against revelation as we
ppssfess it through Moses and the Prophets, Jesus Christ and
His Apostles ? Are not these phenomena rather confirmatory of
a helief in this Revelation? And this, whether, professed
Spiritualists are, as a body, anti-Christian or lidt. Indeed, the
fact of Spiritualists generally being opposed to the Christian faith
would rather point to a remarkable prophesy about the latter
days, dreams, visions, seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils ;*
which prophesy, it would seein, is being fulfilled in its most
literal sense. But that all Spiritualists are not opposed to that
revelation which we accept, I happen to know from that most
eloquent pamphlet by Mr. Hall, “The Use of Spiritualism,”
which, through the courtesy of a friend, I have perused.
With regard to the grounds on which I am induced to believe
in mesmerism and Spiritualism, I could reinark that my credence
is not altogether based on the testimony of others alone. I whs
induced to try, and I found, somewhat to my surprise, that I
myself possessed a mesmeric power; and I have reason to believe
that I can be , a, spiritualistic medium also. And I am not the
only one, as I learn from inquiry, who Has shrunk back in horror
from exercisihg so awful a function. On this head I would rather
not enlarge; but I might with truth detail experiences which,
if not solely hallucinations—and I have never been suspected of
insanity—surpass, many ghost stories.
The ethical and religious side of Spiritualism I would much
rather deal with ; and, in doing so, I regret extremely if I dis¬
turb that “ philosophic calm ” which I formerly described truly
as admirable. And I confess I am still surprised that Mr.
Earquhar does not acknowledge the pre-eminence of the Hebrew
Scriptures in dealing with the inner life of the soul. And, cer¬
tainly, both the Jewish rabbi and the Christian preacher draw
equally, though not to the same extent, on revelation given
through Jews alone. Where the Aryan element is introduced, I
am simply at a loss to conceive.
I do not propose to give an apology of the Christian religion
neither am I speaking in conventional language. Butin arguing
the question, I should proceed in the Socratic dialectical method
—that is, I should endeavour to establish certain broad bases, and
so on, till my adversary admitted all that I accept myself. Aiid
I am simply amazed that Mr. Earquhar does not concede my
first point in my endeavour to bring about assent to the fact
that “ Salvation is of the Jews.”
Now with regard to abstractions, generalities, and popular
audiences, what I meant was this. Only highly-educated people
can comprehend an abstraction (such as humanity) at all. And
is prayer possible to an indefinite final cause ? Do we not feel
the need of a revelation—nay, more, of air incarnation ? Is it to
be believed that God cannot be known except to a certain select
circle of philosophers ?
* This is qne among other prophesies to which I would call attention—
“And then shall that Wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with
the spirit of His mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of His coming:
even him, whose eoming is after the working of Satan, with all power, and
signs, and lyirg wonders, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in
them that perish; because they received nof the love of the truth, that they
might be saved. And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion,
that they should believe a lie.” (II Thess. ii. 8—12.) The other prophesy I
have in mind I shall not be able to lay my hands on before sending this
letter off
214
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 31, 1879.
In fact, the Theosophic Society appears to be seeking to revive
Gnosticism. The pride of intellect shall find out God. Science
shall supersede revelation. “ Base mechanic,” stand aside: I
am more learned than thou ! It is not so in the Christian faith.
IVom the Word of God we find that the knowledge of God is
often hid from the “ wise and prudent ” and “ revealed unto
babes.” And actual experience confirms this truth.
It is interesting to notice how far Mr. Tarquhar was indebted
to the Word of God for those truths which he so ably expounded.
Bor instance, I might enlarge on those Scriptural titles, “ Son of
God ” and “ Son of Man.” Mr. Barquhar admits the possibility
dan union of the Divine and human in man; and surely no
more than One can sum up in his own person the essential and
the highest attributes of each.
Seeing, therefore, that knowledge of Divine things is derived,
consciously or unconsciously, from the Hebrew Scriptures, I
would earnestly recommend to the Theosophic Society a careful
and prayerful perusal of the Old and New Testament writings.
Nevertheless, I remember the case of that king who, when bid
go wash in Jordan, turned and went away in a rage. And may
others, tempted perhaps on the first impulse to do likewise,
afterward repent and receive all those blessings that are promised
to those who will but exercise a humble faith.
A Young Clergyman.
October 22nd, 1879.
SPIRITUALISM IN NEW ZEALAND.
The Rev. M. W. Green, of Dunedin, has been
attacking Spiritualism, and by the last mail from
New Zealand we have received a report of Mrs.
Emma Hardinge Britten’s reply to him, consisting of
a lecture delivered at the Garrison Hall, Dunedin,
before eighteen hundred people. The following are
a few extracts from her address-
As a specimen of the mode in which Mr. Green
deals with the subjects announced, I give you his
words spoken in my own hearing last Tuesday
evening, when he declared that “ Spiritism was a
worship of all that was base and damnable. It was
the most accursed system under the heavens, the
most damnable system ever advocated on earth.”
I might pause here, and having presented you
with these samples, both printed and oral, of Christian
sentiment and gentlemanly language, hold myself
excused from entering the arena of argument with such
an antagonist; but I must confess my deep indigna¬
tion overcomes even my contempt, and determines
me to expose some of the gross fallacies which accom¬
pany the language I have cited.
I need hardly say my task is not a pleasant one,
for independently of the tone in which this gentle¬
man’s warfare is conducted, its argumentation seems
to carry me back into the dark ages, and compels me
to fight legions of goblins whom the civilisation of
the nineteenth century has long since consigned to
the realms of old-time superstition.
When modern Spiritualism first made its mark on
this generation, many of the clergy, whose calling it
threatened—just as the dawning of Christianity
threatened to ruin the trade of the image-makers of
Ephesus—after using all their arts of denial, threat,
persecution, and anathema maranatha in vain, at last
fell back upon the once popular but now fast-fading
superstition of a personal devil, who, having been
summoned from the realms of an antique pande¬
monium, was rehabilitated with all the weird attri¬
butes of horns, hoof, and tail, and set loose upon the
ocean of public opinion, to scare off our dear spirit
friends, and lash those who dared to give them a
welcome into the realms of freshly-lit fires and newly
raked-up embers of half-burnt brimstone. For a
| time the Spiritualists, Freethinkers, and Rationalists
) | of the age fought this contemptible scarecrow as if
(| it had been a reality.
) I Twenty-five years ago it really did play its part on
\| the stage of a certain kind of public opinion, and
)| provided the scene of the Satanic craze was suf-
{\ ficiently far from the railroad to ensure an audience
)j of backwoodsmen, and other simple folk who had not
\j become acquainted with the mythical origin of theo-
|| logical legends, as revealed by modern travel and
\| scientific discovery, the fire-and-brimstone fable was
) | revived with good effect; but when a very little
!| learning and very little common sense was brought
) I to bear upon these clerical utterances, their value as
(j a rod for frightening grown-up children was placed
) | in its historical absurdity. The Satanic theory melted
>| away into the dim legendary shades from whence it
< j came, and the grewsome devil’s sword, instead of
] being merely blunted, shivered into pieces in the
<! light of modern intelligence, leaving only such petty
) 1 fragments behind as serve for nursemaids’ rods and
(j infants’ rattles.
Of late years the more enlightened of the clergy
<| have prudently become silent, some doubtless be-
>| lieving their creed would last their time ; others
; waiting to see which way the wind of popular favour
)! was likely to blow; and not a few earnest and
(| reverend men deeming it their best course to follow
)j the advice of Gamaliel, believing, as I believe, that
y , “ if this work be of men it will come to nought, but
/1 if it be of God, man cannot overthrow it.” The more
s! belligerent, however, finding the old Beelzebub story
) i gone out of fashion, as their next best resort opened
s their arms to travelling conjurers and tricky exposers
)| of the obnoxious new faith, who, by the aid of a little
{| confederacy and legerdemain, undertook to rout the
)j whole army of angels, archangels, spirits, and demons,
\ \ and prove that all who believed in spirit communion
| —even upon the testimony of their senses—were
\ | either fools enough to be deluded, or knaves enough
)! to become deluders like themselves.
(I Still these, like many other attempts to conquer a
world-wide movement with hobgoblins and con-
|)| jurers, have become things of the past, of which
h| most of the actors have become heartily ashamed.
I j| My friends, therefore, may judge of my surprise when
I ! I find in this brave little city—this bright, progressive
centre of British civilisation—the long-defunct Satan,
| in proprid persond, disinterred from the shades of
oblivion, materialised in all the grim horrors of the
| far-famed roaring lion, and placed with open mouth
I and rampant paws on this very Garrison Hall plat-
| form by a Christian minister as the monster that is
| going to devour him and all his flock of lambs ; pull
down all the churches of Christendom ; stamp the
I Bible out of memory; upset Exeter Hall, with its
j world-wide mission of Bibles and moral pocket-hand-
| kerchiefs ; sweep away every king from his throne ;
j<j substitute for monarchy a reign of defunct mate-
ifj rialised Nihilists, Socialists, and Communists; destroy
|| every memory of a personal Jehovah; abrogate mar-
! riage and proclaim a general do-as-you-please law to
I all mankind.
On the 24th of June our Christian brother put
jj forth another announcement to the following effect:
I).- —Dangers of spirit mediumship—destroys indi-
Oct. 31, 1879. THE SPIRI
vid/wality and power of self-control—an incentive m
to the commission of crimes. |)|
If Mr. Green is actually sincere in the doctrines he Kj
promulgates, it would be rather a curious subject of 17,
inquiry to find what kind of mediums he has been fa
in the habit of associating with. I can only say that |)f
he ought to he in a position to afford illustrations of Kj
so monstrous an assertion. Being a medium of many fi
years’ standing myself, and acquainted with mediums, Kj
both public and private by the thousands, I would j/j
like to know if this gentleman can point out one Ki
score of well-marked cases in which mediumship has j? j
destroyed individuality, or led to the commission of Kj
any crime whatever. A charge like this is rather m
too serious to be hurled against a whole class of the j|j
community under the specious shelter of generalities, j (j
Where are the imbeciles whom spirit mediumship Kj
has destroyed ? Where the criminals whom it has jo
goaded on to the commission of crimes ? Surely our j)j
friend can give us one poor score of such instances, jo
especially as I, on the other hand, can point to hun- Kj
dreds of cases in which mediumship has strengthened jo
the weak-minded, cured disease, reformed criminals, jp
instructed the ignorant, and converted unbelief into jo
religious hope and trust.
I myself commenced my spiritualistic career as a jo
public test medium in New York, sitting free for all jjj
comers, consequently having twice as much work to Kj
do as any professional medium. At that time I was j)j
consumptive, weak, and nervous, having visited Kj
America chiefly in the hope of benefiting what had jo
been pronounced an incurable throat disease. I am j(j
now well and strong; neither will I be hypocrite Kj
enough to call myself a “ miserable sinner,” or allow j(!
any other person to do so. I could write a volume j)j
on the beauty, use, and good which spirit medium- j(j
ship has brought to me ; for its evil side I still await l>j
Mr. Green’s revelations. j<j
Miss Sprague, one of our best and earliest American j) j
trance mediums, the authoress of some most charm- j\j
ing poetry—which Mr. Green, in his voluminous j)j
quotations from spiritual literature, unfortunately Ki
omitted to notice—was at one time totally blind, but j7j
when she became a medium she was cured by spirits, |\|
wholly independent of any human aid. She is now j?j
a spirit herself, and in the pure and loviug realms of j)j
spiritual existence, doubtless knows how to excuse j/j
Mr. Green for attempting to cast a stain on one of jp
the most spotless records that ever woman left j/j
behind.
Mr. Francis H. Smith, a well-known merchant of j/j
Baltimore, and the author of an admirable little work y]
entitled The Footprints of a Presbyterian—another j/j
specimen of our literature from which Mr. Green has j)j
forgotten to quote—was also blind for some time, j/j
Having sat in spirit circles until his own powers of jjj
mediumship became unfolded, he, too, became j(j
entirely cured by spirit—a cure so well attested, and jjj
so candidly related in Mr. Smith’s celebrated j/j
pamphlet, that it is quite a pity Mr. Green forgot to jjj
quote from it. j/j
Professor S. B. Brittan, the brilliant editor of jjj
several spiritual journals, and the author of a very j/j
celebrated work entitled Man and his Relations, jjj
another distinguished work that Mr. Green unfortu- j/j
nately forgot to quote from, was once a universalist Ki
UALIST. 215
clergyman, and during a fit of illness so severe that
his life was despaired of, he suddenly fell into a
twelve days’ trance, from which he recovered entirely
well. Professor Brittan has been a fine seeing and
writing medium for the last twenty-five years. I
have known him intimately for more than twenty
years, during all which time he has been so highly
esteemed both in public and private life that I think
it would take something more than Mr. Green’s
assertions to convince the American public that his
mediumship has led him into the commission of
crime, and destroyed his admirable powers of self-
control.
The Rev. William Fishborough, author of a
splendid standard work on Spiritualism, entitled
The Macrocosm and Microcosm; ” the rev. and
most noble old Unitarian minister, poet, and author,
John Pierpoint; the Revs. R. P. Ambler and W.
Fernald, all authors of great distinction in our ranks,
and from whose works Mr. Green again most un¬
fortunately forgot to quote, were acknowledged
mediums, and, wonderful to relate, still bear the
reputation of having been remarkably good men.
Dr. Eugene Crowell, of New York, whose very
popular and voluminous' works have also been
singularly omitted from Mr. Green’s list of authors,
gives numerous accounts of mediums whose gifts, so
far from leading them into the commission of crime,
have benefited their health, strengthened their
minds, educated their intellects, and made them
better men and women every way. Dr. H. F.
Gardner, of Boston, and Charles Partridge, of New
York, both public men of high standing, have
publicly declared, and recorded their declarations in
our spiritual journals, that their gifts of mediumship
had enabled them to conquer many of the tendencies
of vice which American fast society is apt to lead to.
In Mr. Charles Partridge’s standard journal, the
Spiritual Telegraph, he strengthens his own con¬
fessions by citing a large number of cases in which
spiritual mediumship has conquered inherent and
obstinate tendencies to vice. I do not undertake to
say that this is invariably the case. This is a very
sinful and degenerate age, and of course Spiritualists
and spirit mediums are as fallible as the rest of
humanity. If they are so, however, depend upon it
the world is sure to hear of it. That, as a rule,
Spiritualists and spirit mediums are better rather
than worse than their fellow creatures even the few
examples I have been able to cite would prove. The
persons I have named are all well-known public
characters, writers, and mediums, and hundreds of
others, similarly well reported of, hurl back this
slander on its author’s head.
Out of the thousands of Christians who are daily
arraigned at the bar of human justice for crime, can
Mr. Green show me a fair percentage of spirit
mediums or Spiritualists ? Can he show me spirit
mediums believers in gaols, penitentiaries, or con¬
demned cells ? Except in the rarest and most excep¬
tional cases, can he find them in the commission of
crime, or cited to the bar of human justice on any
count? or can he disprove my assertion that on the
average they are amongst the most peaceful, well-
disposed, and orderly persons of any community in
which they are found ?
m
THE SPIRITU ALIStr.
Oct. 31, 1891.
MESMEIIIS]^ AND ITS
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Hy the late Will. QaaQOBT, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
JMivet'sity.'''
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to Hjs Grace the Duke of Argyjl.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its qua]ity and size,
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.l
CONTEXTS
CHAPTEB I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric'Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of peelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees bf Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Wakipg State of Commands Given in 'the Sleep.
CHAPTER IIISympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public | Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy wfth the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force of Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrpyision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V: —jLucjd Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health of State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—^Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovisipn and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Pefsons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Ptypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the COnspious
Of Waking State—Dr: Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazipg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be’ Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro-
dticed at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extaties not
all Impbstors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Oahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—The1-® are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
hot Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
of Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Rs Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—^Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of'Success in Experiments^—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons ip an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:— Diroct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Oases—
Clairvoyance qf Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV;—Trance—Ektpsis—Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
apd Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London.
i
INFQE^ATIQN FQJv INQUIRERS,
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the glphe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and G-alileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
Thp Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in thle presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in tlie
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
ftcienc:, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new xnetal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own-
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The' assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena'are jug;glery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with po strauger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present fime therp are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were: all
tricksters (which they are not), fhey are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Headers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenqmena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
Which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena f-—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for ope hour during the sittipg qf the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands ip contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before, the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
shpuld bq of a frivolous nature.
5. ' The first symptom of the invisible power ah work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time f come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message 7 ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system Pf’ communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class bf
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no mofq about them
or the contents of messages than they are, force*! to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be ‘obtained at the first two siaaieen
because no medium chances to be present, try again with Other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better hyoid tbP Rmwoms
stimulus of mediumship altogether. :
Pct. 31, 1879.
Clotji, small 8vo, price Ss. .
OTHER-WOBLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
'By WILLIAM WHITE. ' '
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
'everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
If asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Bin or transgression has' been, is, and ever will be eter-
tially punished; torment and misery ate everlastingly
Inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
Of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Axlen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,‘E.O.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. Pi' j^LEXAlj^Eft;'
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close Criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.1’—Saturday Review.'
ThC Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.;
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8 vo.
' ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Corresponding member of tire Medical Academies
of Paris, Berliii, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Betters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
T EOTimES ON NATURAL HISTORY.
' 1 V DB. CABTEB BLAKE’S private class wjll
meet in the Galleries of Natural Hrsfory, prlfeh Mu¬
seum, on Thursday, 6th, Saturday, 8th, Thursday, 13th,
and Saturday, 15th November, from two tp four p.pq.
Tickets 2s. 6d. per lecture, or 7s. 6d. course.—Address
Dr. Carter Blake, 28, East-street, QuCen-square, NV'.C.
RE-ENGAGEMENT DESIRED by a
German Governess (diplbmie). French Music
and all branches of an advanced English education;
£80,—Address Fraulein Moller, at Dr. Galloway, 17,
Spring-terrace, North Shields.
MEGIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
infoimation for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O." Price Id.; Post free
for IJd. 5 or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN-
GEB AND PPHEMEBIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to Pccur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“Baphael’s” is the oldest and' best AstrolPgical
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and aji the principal events
of the current year, even tP the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
* Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.O.
British national assqcia..
TlQN OF SPlBITUALISTS, 38, Groat Bussell-
pireet, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
@ P-ni.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an Bnglish brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care pf M. A- Mallet 3 Bue de
la Cossoniere, Paris.'
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Posf free.
“RIFTS IN THp yE|L.”
A collection of choice poems arffi prize essays given
throughmediUmsiiip, also df articles and poe’ms written
by Spiritualists.' Atuseful book t'6 place in the public
libraries,"ind to present or send to those who ate un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It cbiit'aius muck about
the religious aspect1 of Spiritualism , gived through the
writing mediuhiship ofM.A. (Oxou),“'and j.s'One'of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with tho movement. ' '
CONTENTS.
Intrpductipn: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
L—“0! BeaUtifiil White Mother Death.”"; Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. Y. Tappan-
Eichmond.
‘ II.—The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III.—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IY‘.—Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Bichmdnd.'
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How rthe writings were produced: The
Magnificent' Egotist, Sapsea; Mr. Stollop' reveals' a
S’eCrdtV A' Majestic Mind Severely Tried’: Dwellers
in Olojsterham: Mr.Peter Peckefaft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments. '
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs- •
IX. —Margery MUier. Given tkrough tke trance-
mediumship pf Lizzie DQten.
if-—Cde by n Adamanta.”
XL—Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Eesurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein. 
XIV. —To Yon who Loved Me- By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Carbine A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth.1 Given’ through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
' XVII.—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. BytheBarOhess Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand). ' ’ '
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The BrOwn Lady Of Bainhahi By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXll.—A Story of a Haunted HoUse. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Bev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Lomsa Lowe.
XXV—-De Prbfundis. By Anpa Blackwell.
XXVI.—Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc.Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital. '
XXVI L—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Belatidn of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A.) Oxon.”
KXIX.—A Sdance in the Sunshine. By the Bev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Bev. O. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXjV.—The Spirit Creed.' Through the piedium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon. ’
’ XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Predictiori. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesf alien).
XXXVil.-—Longfellow’s Position in Belatipn 'to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII. — Spiritual Manifestations among tke
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Mediation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Oalder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Belation to Spiritualism. By Lisetto Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Eussel Wallace,
F.B.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald If^ssey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
HE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
QB, THE TWO OLEVEE SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Beimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.B.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, 63d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
©ffice, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
iix
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SABGENT
CONTENTS,
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. B; Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions— Tile Materialisation of Spirjts
through Kate Fox, J. Koqns, the Dayenporf Brothers -
D. D. Hume,' and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms
Drapery and Flowers.' '
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter HI.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slkd®i fuid
Mrs. HoUis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisaticins iri England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams; Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various' Wit¬
nesses. /'
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S.-^-Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
* Chapter VI.—Spirit and Mattep—Are there Two
Substances ? —Immateriality’—Ancient Belief ’in
Spirits—Immortality in the' Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes— Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — SwPdenborg —
Proofs of 'Spirit PoWef over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Hall-W. H. Harrison. '
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Ilegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrief’s Ahuse of Spiritnanstsv
Chapter VlII.—Mis^'CoOk’S Modiumship—Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Variey, Mr.'Win.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr'. H. M. Dunphy, Mr
J. 0-Luxmoye, Mrs. Boss-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiment's by Mr. Crookes.'
CHAPTER IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
pf Dr. C. Bape, Mr. B. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. CrOSpy
MrS.'A. A. Andrews, Mri Irvine, Bey. S. Watson, and
Bev. B. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Mediupi-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Sbership — Swedenborg — Kardec —[‘Cjiasefay’;—
Capanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Ckilvin —
Plutarch—Charles' Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Belations of Spiritualism to Belief
in'God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Belations of Spiritualism to Morality
1—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Moruhty—
Sin Punishes ItsClf—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of‘Spiritualism.
Chapter XVIL—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Bevelatidns Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss --Leon Case—
Indifference tp Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martifieau—
Vbysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVlII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Eeflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIEF.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poeins were given,!
CONTENTS.
Part L
I.—The Prayer pf the Sorrowing—XI. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. KeplerTs Visibb-*"
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—Vtl.
The Burial of Webster—VIIL The Parting of SigUrd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurdd.
PART II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Eeconcjljation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare ’— XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “ Birdie’s Spirit Sohg^’—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX, “I still Live*’—XX.'Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer—XXIV. Besurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy' of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Qfflce, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C.
REYUE SPIRITE, Journal ^’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Socieie Anonym, 5, Bue Neuvo de»
Petits Champs, Paris, Post-Office orders payable ta
Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 31, 1879.
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
Christmas ^Puddiiig,
USE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every TraveUing Trunk and. Household in the World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S EIUJIT SAET,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Siek Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world."
Stimulants and insufficient
AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SaLT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., use
ENO’S EMIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
FRUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
Fagged, weary, and worn
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“14, Ruedela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
he without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Berad.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer.
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try END’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
SUCCESS IN LIFE.”—A new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marhed “ ENO'S FRUIT SALT.'’ Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. fid.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS,
Hatcham, London, S.E.
. Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Wmtings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride's Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbelrbewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
—24, The Angel of Silence.
PART 2.—The Wohblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. —29. The July Bug.— 30. The Converted
Carman.  
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office. 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.C.
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
DR. CARTER-BLAKE’S BRITISH
MUSEUM LECTURES will be recommenced
in the middle of October next, when arrangements on
a large scale will be made to render the British Museum
(as suggested by the Principal Librarian) useful for
the purposes of general tuition before schools.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
October, 1879.] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
The Devil of Mascon—An Ignored Scripture Pro¬
mise : A.M.—Physical Immortality: J. W. F.—Popular
Errors and Objections to Spiritualism Explained and
Answered—A Boy’s Memory—Modem Spiritualism:
its Rise and Progress. With a brief Account of its
Facts and Theories: J. S. Farmer.—Notes and Glean¬
ings : The Imperative Necessity of Testing Mediums ;
A Comfortable Consideration; The Forthcoming A uto-
biography of Dr. Newton ; Professor Wagner, Spirit¬
ualism and its Opponents ; Spiritualism on Board the
Cuzo; A Scientific Basis for Faith; Fichte on the
Unreliability of Great Names in Spirit Communica¬
tions; A Curious Incident relating to the Prince
Imperial; “Believes that he believes;” Faith and
Reason; How Little the World Misses any Man ;
Cured by a Spirit. Poetry—Believe and Trust: S. C.
Hall.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW HAY Nisbei & Co,, 52, Ropework-lane
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
The Physician. Vol. % Gt. Harmonia . .76
The Teacher. - „ II. „ . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ ' . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ .76
The Thinker.. „ V. , . : . 7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . ..76
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People .... . . . . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health 7 6
Harmonial Man ; or. Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . ..26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings .50
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton- uildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and .other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 5s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
CONTENTS.
Mediums off Duty. By Christian Reimers    205
Manifestations I have Seen. By Louisa Andrews 206
The Doctrine of Total Depravity:—A Preachment 207
The Apparition of Sir John Owen  208
The Progress of Spiritualism in Germany. By Dr.
G. Bloede    209
Musical Services at St. Andrew’s, Tavistock-place 209
Spiritual Phenomena in Stockholm   210
Religious Solitudes in Sussex. By J. T. Markley,
Author of Stray Thoughts on Many Themes  210
Spiritualism in Australia:—Spiritualism and the
Bible   212
Correspondence:—“Fidelity ’’ Again—Spiritualism
and the Churches      213
Spiritualism in New Zealand  214
Paragraphs:—Religious Mania, 206; A Trance Me¬
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C
