Registered as a Newspaper.
in tun
ftX B J0lr^>'^L Ol/ !P>SY C JT-0 J<0G’ I dftl< .Hdn^\rcn.
Uttospuptr amtudeb' iuif^ Spiniuulism m 6rrnt Iprifaiit,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246. Boule*
yard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille." LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE; Signor G. Parisi, Via^ della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.- BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog* 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
1 Rooms, Fo?ty-'secqnd-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. :‘9, Montgomery-place, and 18. Exchange-street.. CHICAGO : Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office: MEMPHIS. U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
.Nq, iqio. Seventh-street.
No. 295.—(VOL. XIL—No. 16.)
LONDON: FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 1878.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Free^Examination of New Subjects.. ' 181
Faith.."Knowledge. • By Wiliiam' Newton,. F.R.G.S. 181
Spiritualism f in America Dogmatic Theology versus
T- Religion—Principles of Organisation   ... ...183
Woman-Selling ...■ • • ... •.... ... ... .... 185
Further Experiments with Dr. Slade" in Russia ... ... ... 186
ffenry-More on Form Manifestations. By Epes Sargent... 186
Alleged Japanese Mediums at the Paris Exhibition 186
’‘Mpthef'Shipton’s Prophecy.” By C. C. Massey... ... ... 186
Printed Allegations against Mrs. Weldon  187
Stray Thoughts on Things Spiritual... "... .., ...188
Correspondence:—A Suggested:Experiment—Tying Kno.s
in an.Endless" Cord—Isis 'Unveiled and the Todas—
- The Wail from -the- Statue of Memnon—Literary
Accuracy—Spiritualism at St. Andrew’s Church - ... 189
Harriet Martineau. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.,
Author of Letters to Miss Martineau £ ... 191
American Notes ... ..._     '... ... ... 191
Dr. Slade’s Recent Visit to Berlin ... ... .1, ...   191
An Indian Comedy......; ... .}*   ... ...  192
Spiritualism in Dalston   ... ... 192
ParagraphSpiritualism in Hull, 185; Mr. Morse at 5
Diversion,. 18i7 ; The Progress of Spiritualism  191
; |THE . SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
. Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED" WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
BSTABLISHHD IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A > oldest "Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, tip to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
"Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa-
tipn for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchteriberg); Mr."H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); . Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National1 Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, andOhevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelina Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M,D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyah Dawe: Herr Christian Relmers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
he V Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London’’; Mr. S. 0.
Hall. F.S.A.; Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
Mrlnst.C.E.: Mr; D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. x.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson. M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8M0 IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino," No. 23.
AS AMANUENSIS OR READER —A
WIDOW, 53, well informed, plays and sings agree¬
ably, and writes a swift and legible hand. Would enjoy
rendering assistance in literary pursuits of any kind, and is
deeply interested in Psychology. Remuneration not of first
importance. R., 18, Bromfelde-terrace, Olapham.
IS IT TRUE?—Dr. Hugh McLeod will
presently (see future notices) he called upon by a com¬
mittee of ladies and gentlemen, organised for the purpose, to
deliver an intensely interesting course of lectures on the
philosophy of Ancient and Modern Spiritualism. Dr. McLeod
has investigated the entire subject, with the aid of the best
mediums in the world. All friends who may desire to assist
in any way will please address a line, in perfect confidence, to
M. M. B., Secretary to the Committee pro tern., 12, Hamilton-
street, Camden-town, N.W. Discussion will be invited and
demonstrations proposed.
LESSONS in French and Spanish, or English,
to.Foreigners. Translations from the above Languages
also undertaken. Address by letter, Viola, care Of Min*
Burke, 88, Great Bunsell-otreet, "W.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O,
Entrance in Woburn Street.
EASTER CLOSING.
The Offices at 38, Great Russell-street will be closed for the
Easter Holidays on Thursday, 18th iAst,, and reopened on
Monday, 29th inst. ’
Calendar.
Tuesday, April Mth.—G eneral .Purposes Committee, at 5 p.m.
Wednesday,—Soiree at 38, Great Russell-street. Ad-
May Isf. dress by Rev. W-. Staintou Moses on
“ Some of the Difficulties of Inquirers.”
■ Music, Conversation, and Refresh¬
ments. Commence at 7 p.m. Ad¬
mission to Members and Friends, Is.
each.
Friday, 3rd.—Seance Oommittee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Stance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr."
Eglinton, medium.
Monday, 6th.—FokTNfGHTLY Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m. Paper by Mr. J. W. Gray,
Member of the Research Committee.
Wednesday, Sth.—Inquirers’ Seance at 8 p.m., Mr. Eg-
, linton, medium.
Friday, —^Experimental Research Oommittee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ Committee’s Stance, at 7.'30p,m. Mr.
. Eglinton, medium.
Tuesday, 14i7j.—Finance .Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting-, at 6.30 p.m. Special
.Council Meeting to follow. Motion
by Mrs. Lowe.
Wednesday, 15(7i.—Inquirers’ Seance at S p.m. Mr. Eg¬
linton, medium.
Friday, 17th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p m.
„ Committee's Seance, at 7.30 p.m, Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
THE READING- ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
■ from all parts of the world, as well as other high-class journals,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various’ works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers hive been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.   
BRIXT0N PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the, society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—  H. E. FRANCES, HON. Sbo.
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
RECITATIONS
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
During April and May, on
Wednesday Afternoons at 3 p.m. (beginning April 10th), and
Saturday Evenings at 8.15 p.m. (beginning April 13th).
N B.—There will be no" recitation May Sth. .
Tickets may he had at Mitchell’s library, 33, Old Bond- street;
Hayes’s box office, 199, Regent-street; at the Hall ; or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denhigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of fourteen recitations, one and a half guineas each, Single
tiekets—Stalls, 3s.; chairs, 2s.; balcony, Is.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street; Cavendish Square, London, W. .
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox;
This Society was established in February. 1875, for.the nr i-
motion of psycholosriea’s ience in all jts branches Its "object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism' of man. Commnni.
cations as to alleged phenomena are 'nvitedhy the Committee
of.inquiry who hold investigation sittings, without subscribing
to or recngnif>ing any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on; application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary. •
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). . From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863)., From the 60th thousand. .
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
Now Ready, Price 2s. 6d.,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REYIE^i
The Spiritualists’ Quarterly, for April,
CONTENTS :—
Editor’s Address.
I. —Ethics of the New Age.
II. —^Experiences of Astrology in India.
III. —Mystical Po’etry.
IV. —Modem Materialism.
. V.—Dante and Beatrice.
VI.—The Sentiment of Immortality.
VII.—A Stance with Mrs. Marshall.
VIII.—Pilgrimages in France. No. 1.—To Paray-le-Mohial.
IX.—Psycography.
X.—Buddhism and Christianity. .
XI.—The Miracle Land.
E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, E.Q.-- .
ASTROLOGY. “ Worth its weight in gold.”
• Every adult person living should purchase at. once
“YOUR FUTURE FORETOLD," ,a book of 144 pp., cloth, only
2s. 6d. London: Berger, Newcastle-street, and J. Burns ; or
post-free of E. Casael, High-street, Watford, Herts. Instruc¬
tions to purchasers gratis.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER’S ' PAM-
PHLET on Clairvoyance, price id. Also on Curative'
Mesmerism, price 6d. To be had'from the Author, 10, Berkeley-,
gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
EDUCATION.—A Graduate of Cambridge,-
I who is an experienced Tutor, desires a few Boarders to
whom he may impart a superior education. Healthy locality,
comfortable home, <fcc. Address, W. Stoddart, B.A., Gwydyr
House, Cambridge.   . ' . ,
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON,. F.R.S., '
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous • Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of tbe most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists . and Perfumers every where, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London. .
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten. "
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saying you time and money. .
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, LudgateCircus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.;
post free, seven stamps. ■   
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.CJ
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers;
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and"
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application,
FRARQIS RAYENSCR0FT, Manager.
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
. SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester,
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North. Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwlck-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C,
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev.N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
read, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Ashton. E. P., Harcourt Lodge,86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H„ 94, Cornwdll-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late ofH.M.S. “Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Crosiand, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H,, 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, O. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hijl, Kent.
Havle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, D el am ere-crescen t, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
J iy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, B., 3, Park-road,Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby,
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Rev. W W., 118, Albany-street,Regent’s-park, NW.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Rehrers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Strawbr dge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock. St. George, M. A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vY.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Aime-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., lL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J • K. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
. Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh. 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-slreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lmdesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria. Australia.
M. Leymarie, t. Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent. Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes.Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 9,Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A,
Le Comte ue BuUet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
THE SPiEITUALIST.
April 19, 1878.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
Lonqon, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Bud.a-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgfawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Bel grave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiahi, 2, Vico' del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
. Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks .T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York,
Allied Societies,
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hoh. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Biyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 84, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot,
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia,' South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
ASTROLOGY, a Popular Sketch of
-E3&-. Celestial Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J.
Pearce, author of the Weather Guide Rook, &c. Price
Is. 6d. Sent post free by the author on receipt of stamps ;
address, 3, Cedars-terrace, Queen’s-road, South Lambeth, S.W.
The TEXT BOOK OP ASTROLOGY, by the same author,
is now preparing for publication. Vol. I. will contain the
complete rules, and all tables necessary for calculating Na¬
tivities on the Placidian method improved by Zadbiel, by
spherical trigonometry (the only reliable and truly scientific
method). To subscribers the price will be 7s. the first volume.
Intending subscribers will please send their orders to the
author.
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
6re., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, P.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London : Spirit¬
ualist Office.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 tail 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above.  
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to. 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
  ;  s,w, .
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN
Healer and Trapse Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of fegts, The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes.
MRS, 0. E. BASSETT,
9, CHOBHAM TERRACE, CHOBHAM ROAD, STRATFORD
    LONDON, E.   
'll. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Btonord,
Paris.
IT' W. WALLIS., Trance Medium, desires
engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, I, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N. ■ ■ ' ’   • ■ ■ ' 
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hili,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
TSS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
. and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
RS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal-
- ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
’ISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 40, St. Mary’s-terrace, Maida-hill West, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
tubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two volsj price 10s. Gd. each; postage 8d. per volume.
 London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. •
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Alien, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible com¬
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
PLANCHETTE, or the despair of
SCIENCE, by Epes Sakoent. This hook, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modem Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
TVjTEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
JL-v-i- VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 88, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id. ; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for Gd.
Vo^ujvie Twelve; Number Sixteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 19th, 1878.
I
v JF
THE FREE EXAMINATION OF NEW SUBJECTS.
A complaint is often made by Spiritualists that a free
hearing cannot be obtained through the channel of the
London daily press for the ideas, facts, and manifestations
now in our midst; yet when some well-intentioned and
conscientious Spiritualists recently made up a new theory
from old opinions, and applied the resuscitation to modern
psychological phenomena, a few readers of these pages
objected to their brethren having a hearing in the columns
of The Spiritualist. Surely the experience of all of us should
by this time have taught us to freely examine all subjects
and facts whatever which can be found in God’s universe,
and to do so without a particle of bias or of prejudice ; thus
may we sometimes entertain angels unawares, and sometimes
turn away intellectual defaulters without their being able to
justly complain that they have not had a fair hearing. That
dogged intolerance or obtuseness of which we complain in
others, let us not exhibit ourselves. Our general conclusion
about the lengthy controversy on Theosophy is this—That
the advocates of the doctrines have advanced them upon a
creedal and not upon a scientific basis. Instead of giving us
first a dozen facts, and then a conclusion irresistibly flowing
from the facts, they have given us a dozen conclusions based
upon, say, a solitary fact, relevant to no one of the twelve
points of doctrine. If the picture evolved abnormally beneath
the hand of Madame Blavatsky was produced by her will¬
power, and not by ordinary mediumship, why does she let
those who attest the fact puzzle themselves as to the nature
of the drawing, instead of explaining the points on which
her friends record their perplexity, and instead of laying
bare the whole process from first to last in a plain way ?
FAITH VERSUS KNOWLEDGE.*
BY WILLIAM NEWTON, F.R.G.S.
I do not propose, sir, this evening to read an exhaustive
paper on any particular subject, but merely to give expres¬
sion to a few thoughts hurriedly thrown together, with a
view to elicit discussion, and which will occupy but a very
short time.
I think we should occasionally halt in our career and
inquire whither we are tending, for a little calm reflection
amidst the sea of Theosophical and Keincarnationist theories
with which we are deluged, seems to be necessary to enable
us to keep our foothold on what is substantial and verifiable.
Such lofty flights have lately been taken by our French
and American friends, that I, for one, have felt quite unable
to follow, and have had thrust upon me the necessity of
constantly keeping in view the wide and distinct difference
' between what is on the one hand purely a matter of science
and reason, and, on the other, a matter of faith or specula¬
tion. It is not sufficiently borne in mind that these two
sides of a question can never be usefully associated, and that
any attempt at investigation which does not set out with a
strictly defined separation of them can only end in con¬
fusion.
I think it will be admitted that the literature of Spiritu¬
alism affords proof that we have not made that separation ;
that, with us,'fact so frequently and imperceptibly shades
off into fancy that it is next to impossible to determine
where one leaves off and the other begins.
I hold that nothing permanently valuable can be arrived
at as long as this is the case, and that until we divide our¬
selves into two allied camps, one pledged to the self-nega¬
tion of dry fact and the other permitted as free and
unfettered an employment of the emotional side of their
natures as they may choose, no good thing will come out of
* A Paper read last Monday night before the British National Association of Spiritualists.
| Spiritualism. For is it not the distinctive feature of modern
| Spiritualism that it claims to have withdrawn the question
(| from the region of faith and to have made it one of prov-t
| able fact? If so, it would seem clear that the duty which
| lies nearest to us is to render that proof convincing to
< | everyone, and especially to those whose intellectual eminence
| would befit them to deal with it. It is on this ground only
| that the phenomena have interest for me, for I confess that
(| I gain from them no strengthening of any religious con-
11 viction I formerly possessed, and that any belief I have in
) I the existence of spirits and of a life after death is not an
<! intellectual conviction arrived at after experiment and re-
II search, but a faith which is independent of knowledge, and
I which I can only justify by saying that I feel it necessary to
| J hold that belief.
| This confusion, however, of the intellectual and the
| emotional is not one of which we are alone guilty; I think
! the large majority of men are not conscious of the almost
invincible tendency that exists to regard subjective as ob¬
jective truths ; a true discrimination in such matters is well-
nigh impossible to those whose thoughts range unchecked
throughout the whole of their natures. Even the utterances
of disciplined men like Tyndall and his fellows are con¬
tinually marked by precisely the same failure to distinguish
between the two; they forget that the premises of science
) include nothing but what is capable of sensible experience,
I and that its attitude towards transcendental conceptions
I must be one of professed ignorance ; and thus, when in some
|; purely scientific treatise one comes across a gush of poetic
feeling, the effect is supremely ridiculous, when it is not
disgusting.
I should wish to urge, then, that every enquiry ought to
start upon the lowest ground possible to attain, and that
that ground must be one on which the whole human race
| can be agreed. Such a basis is to be found only in the
scientific method of enquiry, which in its simplest form
is essentially nothing more than that 2 + 2 = 4.
Science has been ably defined as v Prevision based on
quantitative knowledge.” Without this knowledge, that
is, without an exhaustive study of the qualities of the
matter under investigation, followed by a definition of
its quantities, experience has proved that we cannot have
the prevision. All speculation which does not recognize
and account for every variety of fact which comes
within the vision of the explorer, is, as the Positivists
would say, metaphysical, inasmuch as it is a personal
view supported by a certain number of external phe-
| | nomena, and not an impersonal conclusion forced upon
| I the enquirer by the order of all the facts concerned. It is
11; most unfortunate that we, who possess materials for obtaining
| | accurate knowledge, should admit so much that is merely
m empirical opinion, so many hasty generalizations which
| | assume that the part is equal to the whole.
> l I do not wish to be understood as imposing any restriction
| yj whatever on the speculative faculty, which, of course, affords
(I satisfaction to the mental and spiritual needs of a very large
j ! class, but I do wish to point out that in this way we cannot
| I hope to arrive at any solution of our difficulties, and that
| | until a firm and verifiable basis has been obtained, specula-
11! tion only draws us away from the points at issue,
j | j I expect I am venturing on dangerous ground when I say
| (I that man’s five senses are the only known avenues of
|) | information; but at all events science ca& recognize no
III others at present; if in process of time other objects in the
| < i universe Should develope related perceptions in man, by so
j much will the field of our knowledge be extended; but I
II i think it will be admitted that, as yet, we possess no organ by
I | which we can recognize spirit as spirit. Our duty, therefore,
ul appears to lie in exhausting all that is now sensible to us,
182
April 19, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
and thus preserve that principle of continuity which doubtless f
extends throughout the universe, and avoid any sudden and !
wide jumps at a hypothesis which, however useful as a j
hypothesis, remains non-proven as a fact.
For let us consider what a fact is. Nothing seems easier i
to define, until we try; on trial the task is perplexing,
because of the ambiguities of language, which imply an i
antithesis between fact and theory. Facts are commonly j
taken as relating to phenomena existing externally, 'per se, |
while theories relate to consciousness, to the conception we I
form of external things. Thus facts are said to represent j
the order of phenomena, and theories our conceptions
of that order. The psychologist, however, knows that these |
pretended limits are shadowy and artificial, and cannot be
maintained; he knows that so far from any fact being the !
unadulterated image of its object, the conditions of our j
own consciousness are necessarily mingled with it, and j
that in the very simplest fact there is an inextricable |
blending of inference with sensation. A fact may be j
defined as a bundle of inferences tied together by one |
or more sensations. Take a case so simple as the sight j
of an apple on the table. All that. is here certified by j
consciousness is the sensation of a coloured surface; with j
this are linked certain ideas of roundness, firmness, sweet- !
ness, and fragrance, which were once sensations, and are j
now recalled by this of colour, and the whole group of actual j
and inferred sensations clusters into the fact which is ex- j
pressed in “ there is an apple.” Yet any one of these |
inferences may be erroneous. The coloured object may be j
the imitation of an apple in wood or stone ; the inferences i
of roundness and solidity would then be correct; those of j
sweetness and fragrance erroneous; the statement of fact |
would be false. Or the object seen may be another kind of |!
fruit resembling an apple, yet in important particulars 11
differing from it. Or the object may not exist, and our | j
perception may be an hallucination. Thus a case seemingly j!
so simple may furnish us with the evidence that facts only | j
express our conception of the order in external things, and ]
not the unadulterated order itself. Should the accuracy of j!
any particular fact happen to be of importance—and in j |
Science all facts are important—we are bound to verify it
before accepting it. How is it to be verified ? Bp sub¬
mitting each of its constituent inferences to the primordial test j
of Consciousness. This test with regard to objects within j >
the range of sense is obviously the reduction of inference to | \
sensation. The test with regard to general principles tran- | {
scending sense is conformity with the laws of thought; when | (
we have thus verified a fact, but not till then, have we j
attained the highest degree of certitude. j|
Unless our experiences concur with this definition, they i
are valueless as sources of knowledge, and if we apply it to |
the subject which interests us, how small a proportion of our j
facts can be thus classified. |
The necessity for clearing our position is well indicated j
in a work called the Unseen Universe, by Professors Stewart I
and Tait, whose little book is a most thoughtful and earnest j
contribution to the literature of Spiritualism. They say : I
it Let us say a few words about modern Spiritualists, in so li
far as their pretensions have reference to our subject. They j
assert the presence among them of the spirits of the de- j
parted, assuming sometimes a visible shape, and they compare !
these appearances to those which are recorded in the sacred j
writings. But there is this prominent distinction between j
the two: the Spiritualist communications recorded in the j
Scriptures are represented as made to those who were un- !
prepared to receive them, and also for the most part as j
taking place in open daylight, or, to speak more properly,
having no sort of reference to light or darkness. Whatever j
be their explanation, they have an open-air look about them, j
On the other hand, the manifestations recorded by the j
Spiritualists take place as a rule in insufficient light, if not i
in total darkness, and in presence of those who are in a j
state of mental excitement. i
“ Now, for our own part, we should not be disposed to j
credit any communication from the world of spirits that |
was not made openly and to those unprepared to receive it, j
and, therefore, unprejudiced. i (
“ The man of science must be perfectly recipient, but he j
must, in, the interests of truth, guard himself againgt the 1
I possibility of delusion. We know the almost infinite power
; of the mind, not only to delude itself, but to propagate its
delusion to other minds, and, as we have already remarked,
the conditions of these manifestations are specially favourable
to the spread of such delusions. We do not, therefore,
| hesitate to choose between the two alternative explanations,
and to regard these pretended manifestations as having no
j objective reality.”
In the face of this logical but false conclusion, and of the
| pronounced concurrence of other scientific men with it, I
| feel very strongly that our primary effort should be a refu-
|- tation of it; we owe it to ourselves to vindicate, by every
| means that can be applied, the truly objective nature of
| our facts, and it is, therefore, with the greatest pleasure
| that I observe that our Experimental Research Committee are
| again in full work, because in their hands rests, as I believe,
i the most pressing work the Association has to do at this
moment.
We must not forget that at this day the whole world is
| with science, and that by its aid alone can we gain atten-
| tion. I am not one of those who think that there is any-
| thing surpassingly grand or noble about science; it must be
| fully admitted that, taken by itself, it represents that bread
| alone by which man cannot live, and its complete triumph
| can be scientifically proved to be the complete downfall of
j the human race; still, in its own lowly sphere it is equally
| pure with every other fountain of knowledge at which the
hearts of men instinctively inform themselves.
And, surely, within even its narrow limits there is plenty
of ground which has not yet been trodden by us. Spirit to
be apprehensible by us must appeal to us in precisely the
same mode in which matter does : our knowledge of both
must be identical, because in both cases we can only* know
their respective powers as ultimately affecting our feelings;
what we cannot know is the abstract matter, or abstract
spirit, which is either more than or other than that which is
given in feeling. And thus the action of spirit must be like
the action of electricity, and every other natural force,
known only in its effects, and capable of precisely the same
investigation. I spoke of the principle of continuity as a
chain which encircles the universe ; the particular links in
that chain which now claim our attention are cerebral phy¬
siology and a psychology based upon it, and the subjects in
relation to medial phenomena appear to furnish an
almost inexhaustible field of labour, in which the best re¬
sults may be hoped for, especially if we could obtain aid
from the other side. I am bound to say, however, that within
my experience, “ Joey ” has always seemed much more
anxious to produce the phenomena than to trouble himself
with any intelligible explanation of the modus operandi. I
trust the Experimental Research Committee may be more
fortunate in inducing that lively being to take a more scien¬
tific interest in the subject.
No one need fear that even the narrow range of study
which I recommend will preclude the exercise of a man’s
best faculties. Retaining a firm hold of sensible expe¬
riences, he may employ all the speculation he is capable of
by ascending to what may be called extra-sensible, and
finding himself in the border region of the dynamic relation of
atoms, of the ether, that mysterious form of matter which
contradicts all our notions of matter, or of the ultra¬
mundane corpuscles of Le Sage.
I am afraid that these general recommendations of a slow
and plodding process may appear inadequate and unsatis¬
factory to those who, following a very human bent, think
that the constant interference of the spirits of the departed
is a final and exhaustive explanation of the whole range of
spiritual phenomena, who feel that experience merely is too
narrow as basis for the interpreting of nature, and who would,
invoke the aid of truths drawn directly from consciousness
as a supra-sensible source of knowledge.
To such I shall appear in the light of a drag on the wheels ;
I must be content to remember that a drag is sometimes
useful in preventing too headlong a career down hill, and T
have not hesitated to put forward these limited views,
because this Association courts the expression of all shades
of opinion, and does not require assent to any creed whatever
on the part of its members.
* See J. H, Lewes’ Problems of Life and Mind.
Apeil 19, 1878,
183
f H E SPI&ITTTALlST,
I will conclude by adducing one or two examples in which
I think the application of a little scientific reasoning and
questioning would be valuable.
It is stated in a well known work that a usual accompani¬
ment of all states of impression and clairvoyance is the
phenomenon of internal respiration p which takes place
deeper in the system than the lungs.” This must be a most
curious physiological state of things, and deserves careful
attention.
Again: on a recent reading before the Association of a
careful and very temperate paper on stigmatization, one of
the speakers in the discussion which followed, believed the
case in question to be one of spirit influence, solely because
he had witnessed similar phenomena in others. Was this
a proper ground for forming an opinion in this special
instance ?
Again : one of our members, who had been privileged to j
witness the very highest forms of materializations with which
we are acquainted, did himself the injustice to claim our
belief in his statements by an appeal to his unchallenged
veracity. Would it not have been more to the purpose had
evidence been afforded of the due cultivation of his powers
as an observer ? One other case: I read an account of a
seance at which one of the sitters described the touch of a
materialized hand that grasped his for a moment, as “ like
the loving pressure of a hand in a higher sort of life.”
The question arises, how could the comparison have been
instituted ?
I will not multiply instances of this kind as I feel sure
those I have given are sufficient to indicate my meaning,
but I will just add that a recent perusal of the work called j
Isis Unveiled more than ever makes me deplore this tendency j
to muddle up fact with fancy. These volumes are full of the !
most interesting and varied facts, and if they stood alone we j
might congratulate ourselves on having a cyclopaedia of our !
subject, but unfortunately the personal feelings of the
authoress are so frequently and so offensively intruded upon !
our notice that one gets the idea that the original and sole j
object of the work was not the unfolding of the secrets of |
nature, but a denunciation of two pet antipathies, viz., j
Science and Roman Catholicism.
I hope these few remarks will elicit a profitable discussion. |
SPIRITUALISM IN AMERICA.
Mr. Luther Colbt, Editor of the Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.),
has favoured us with advance proofs of an address delivered before
the Spiritualists of Boston, by Mr. Joseph Rodes Buchanan, on the
31st of March last, the thirtieth anniversary of the advent of Modern
Spiritualism. The following are extracts from the address, and one of
them shows that the principles of organisation recommended by Mr.
Buchanan are those which have been adopted in England:—
DOGMATIC THEOLOGY VERSUS RELIGION.
Anatomy and physiology, geology and palaeontology, history, philo¬
sophy and political science, animal magnetism, phrenology and pneu-
matology, have in succession borne the fierce assaults or struggled to
maintain themselves against the grand social conspiracy and the
pragmatic interference of that hostile power which aims to maintain
fixed opinions and fixed authority in the name of religion, but really
in the interest of human selfishness, tyranny, and bigotry. There is no
crime which may not cloak itself under the name of religion. It was
in the name of Jesus Christ and the Holy Trinity that the famous
Holy Alliance of European despots was formed to hold their continent j
in chains. It was in the name of religion that the gentle and amiable !
and really civilized populations of Mexico, Peru, and the. West Indies j
were enslaved and slaughtered by the Spanish brigands, who repre- |
sented the power of Spain and the sacred authority of the Pope.
Religion is the antagonist of all crime, but theology, which ever and
insolently assumes to be religion, is the parent of every crime that
human imagination can conceive, and the cause of the murderous
bloodshed which has reddened all history from the earliest times down
to the latest horrible massacres in Turkey.
Religion says, respect and love thy fellow man as thyself, and guard
all his rights: this is its voice in every nation; but theology says,
enslave thy fellow man, for thou art holier than he, and thou art also
God’s vicegerent on earth, who is old and infirm of will, and who ]
cannot achieve his purposes or enforce his Almighty fiat without tby
assistance, and unless-.tbou shalt freely use the sword and the bayonet,
the club and the brickbat, and thy terrible scolding voice, and some¬
times the dagger of assassination for the protection of thy Almighty
God from the tongues of men, he will be deeply wounded, and morti¬
fied, and stirred up to furious wrath, and he will pour down lightning j
and thunder, storms, earthquakes, and terrible pestilence in tbe mad¬
ness of his revenge. Therefore shalt thou please thy divine and jealous I
Master by ruling mankind with a rod of iron, and teaching them to *
believe and tremble. And how thoroughly and how bloodily this has
been done all history attests, from the. earliest ages all over the world.
On this wide field of intolerance, covered all over with the monu¬
ments of martyred saints, whom Milton called upon the Lord to avenge,
and still damp with the blood of victims whom intolerance has slain
in every year of the last two thousand (and we know not how many
more), science—star-eyed and majestic science—the staff officer of
Deity—has entered as one clothed with authority, and speaking with
a voice that sounds far along the centuries of all coming time, above
the din of mobs and armies, of chanted creeds, and the roar of the
musketry that enforces falsehoods upon conquered nations.
Prom its broad basis of geologic and cosmic history, science looks up
to the spirit realm and takes cognisance of all those questions of ethics,
and the future life, and man’s relation to the Divine, which have here¬
tofore been held as beyond the reach of human investigation. Science
robs no one by force of his inherited dogmas, but it asserts for all the
absolute right of investigation. It asserts for John Brown as good a
right to look back to creation through.geological strata, and to look, up
to God through His ever-present revelation and His indwelling Spirit,
as John Smith can possibly have to follow his grandmother’s traditions
blindly, or as the learned Dr. Dryasdust has to settle all scientific and
philosophic questions for himself by reference to manuscripts written
in a barbarous age.
As tbe knights of romance battled to relieve some fair lady from
captivity to a sorcerer in a castle, so does Spiritualism come to emanci¬
pate the fair and lovely form of true religion from its captivity in the
bondage of an earth-born theology. Christianity—which has been
crushed and overthrown so completely by theology, that Christian
nations in their governmental acts trample upon the fundamental
teachings of Christ, and devote their largest expenditures to hate and
homicide instead of love—must look to science for its restoration, for
its emancipation from the iron bondage of theology; not physical
science, which gives only physical knowledge, and which must not pre¬
sumptuously rise above its proper sphere, but the science of the soul.
This anniversary of Spiritualism is a deeply religious occasion ; and
this is what we celebrate to-day—the advent of the gentle radiance
from heaven which makes the earth beautiful, which makes our dark
pathway visible on earth, showing that, though it may lead over rocks
and thorns, over quagmires and through storms, it leads at last to
heaven; and which gives us the glorious assurance that we are not
beyond the circle of Divine love, and that our erring fellow mortals
now wandering in darkness or despair, or seeking each other’s lives on
the battlefield, or seeking each other’s purses in the sharp contests of
trade, or wasting their noblest powers in the haunts of vice, will be
brought to a realising sense of the presence of the heavenly hosts and
the God of Infinite Power, and will be drawn up from all this evil into
the higher life, as the plants which are drawn up by sunshine from
their seed-bulbs in the damp, cold soil, bear aloft in the air the flowers
whose perfumed beauty is their worship of the God that brought them
forth. Thus is humanity rising from the clod ; thus is it receiving the
Divine influx ; thus is it germinating and growing now in this unwonted
light, as the earth is becoming green in the new spring. And as the
green grass and the humble dandelion come up everywhere, soon to be
followed by the violet and the blossoming glories of the orchard, so do
we now find in a hundred thousand homes the green freshness of
reviving hopes and the blossoms of celestial love and wisdom, which
tell us that the soul’s dark winter has come to an end, and to-day we
celebrate the vernal equinox of the spirit world—the day from which
the sun advanced north, never to slacken its onward march of ages
until humanity shall bask in the Eden climate of a cloudless June.
The first Divine command or Divine law which is the condition of
our inheritance of the wealth of heaven, is the law of love. By love
we win the kingdom of heaven ; without love it can neither be won
nor possessed. The spiritual atmosphere of heaven is love, as that of
hell is hate, and these atmospheres embrace our present life. He who
lives in love lives in tbe atmosphere of heaven, as he who lives in
selfishness and hate lives in the atmosphere of hell.
The New Testament most emphatically and thoroughly teaches the
truth on this subject, and it is delightful to observe how ancient religion
is sustained by modern science. Its cardinal doctrine is that love is the
fulfilling of the law ; that without love there is no true religion, and
that Jesus recognises none as His followers who do not love each other,
and love all mankind, including their enemies. “ This is my command¬
ment,” says He, “ that ye love one another.” “ Love your enemies.”
“ Be ye perfect, even as your Father in heaven; ” and ‘f except your
righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees
ye shall in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven.’’
Moreover, he establishes an everlasting test and criterion of the
Church of Jesus Christ, the truth of which is confirmed by science, for
Anthropology shows that when the Divine love commanded by Jesus
exists in the human constitution, it gives to that constitution a benig¬
nant restorative or healing power for mind and body, and in time
brings it into correlation with the angels, through whom most mar¬
vellous works are done. “ And these signs shall follow them that
believe,” says Jesus : “ they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall
recover.” And this has been proved all along subsequent centuries, for
His true and earnest followers have thus healed the sick by the hands,
and it is only the degenerate followers of theology instead of religion
who cannot or will not do it. The cold, avaricious touch which grasps
the purse, the sword, and the keys of the Inquisition dungeons has no
healing power, but blights all that it touches.
I would now call upon Spiritualists, as men whose minds are open to
the light from above, to whom the spirit world audits Divine ruler are
not remote historic things .reached by theological speculation, but ever
present and penetrating realities, to embody in their lives this law of
love, and thus prove the sincerity of their convictions. If the demon¬
strated reality of eternal life and its responsibilities does not produce
Apeil 19, 1878.
184 THE SPIRITUALIST.,
in us that earnest activity of religious life and duty which has been
produced in others by a religion without living evidences, based solely
on historic records, the conclusion is inevitable that we are ourselves
inferior in our moral natures, and that our higher enlightenment will
profit us little, either in this life or the next. It is not the amount of
truth which a man knows, but the amount of truth upon which he acts,
that determines his destiny ; and if those who have been foremost in
the recognition of spiritual truth are not also foremost in reducing it to
practice, they will be ranked hereafter as the intellectual idlers and
shiftless vagrants who ramble through a new country making no settle¬
ments, and building no houses, and merely preceding a more permanent
and respectable population.
Whether the present spiritual movement is a mere gipsy ramble of
curious sightseers and idle excursionists, or temporary squatters in
the wilderness, or is the commencement of something permanent, is a
question that Spiritualists should answer as soon as possible.
The command of love comes down from heaven ; we hear it daily,
and we have no doubt of its celestial origin. Shall we go forward
and obey it, or shall we fall back into selfishness, and confess our¬
selves poor moral and intellectual failures, unworthy of the position
in which events have placed us, and wait until men and women of
nobler natures come forward to perform the duties that we neglect ?
I am not willing to believe this. I am not willing to think human
nature so miserably poor at present that the beginning of a true life
must be postponed to future generations. Now and here are the
time and place for duty.
The Divine law of love, whether expressed by philosophy or ex¬
pressed by the New Testament, is the highest expression of wisdom;
for in its social bearing it supersedes all forms of government by some¬
thing that is far better, and in its business aspect it is worth far more
as to the production of wealth than all the labour-saving inventions—
all the financial schemes that can be contrived. If the world had
obeyed the law of love, it would now be a paradise, without a debt,
without an army, without a pauper, without a hospital or jail, with¬
out an uncultivated spot on its surface ; it would be in reality but the
suburb of heaven, and the familiar excursion-ground of the angels;
and, however visionary this may seem to those who have not
studied Divine philosophy, it is a scientific truth capable of rigid
demonstration.
In every earthly and supernal sense, this law, distinctly enunciated,
but not illustrated in its practical bearings, by Jesus of Nazareth,
is the true philosopher’s stone that turns all things into gold. Seek
first the kingdom of heaven, and all things shall be added unto you,
is a sublime truth which the Church has never comprehended.
They who adopt this law, who live for others as well as for themselves,
who are chiefly interested to make this world better and wiser, who
regard themselves in handling their wealth and their talents simply
as trustees for humanity, are prepared for all I would say; but to
those who have not yet had a realising sense of the power and beauty
of this perfect law of life, I would say—There is no life so entirely
happy as the life that is governed by the law of love; there is no life
so healthy as the life of perfect love, and there is no condition that so
perfectly fits one for practical success. It is really the normal life,
the condition of a perfect manhood and womanhood.
If we live in the heaven of love we are deeply interested in the
onward progress of knowledge ; in every form of social improvement;
in the happiness of all about us ; and, above all, in the chosen few who
are labouring for human redemption by every mode of spiritual and j
philanthropic efibrt. True philanthropists will necessarily come j
together in sympathy. It is as true now as in the days of John and !
Paul, that they who belong to the army of heaven are to be known j
by this sign, that they love one another. If this mutual love does |
not exist there is no home here for the angels—no living of the Divine |
life.
But it may be said—We do not know each other ; we welcome the j
angels in our homes, but our homes are far apart. Yet this isolation j
should continue no longer. If we adore the same God of love, if we j
welcome and honour and love the same holy visitants from the spirit i
world, we are one in purpose, one in love, and we should come together j
as one harmonious family.
If we agree in the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, !
we belong to that great Brotherhood—the true Church of humanity, |
the coming Church of the future, which is destined to bring all i
societies and all nations into friendship; which is destined to make
the Church of Christendom a Christian institution ; which will take j
the followers of the JEtoman, the Greek, and the Protestant Churches, j
and all their many sects, Presbyterian, Episcopal, Baptist, Methodist, j
Calvinist, and Armenian alike, and lift them so high above the plane |
of worldly selfishness, above the narrowness of ignorance, above the j
foul malaria of sectarian jealousy and hate, above the binding ;
mechanism of soulless forms and iron-bound theology, that they shall j,
see through the clear, spiritual atmosphere, above the fogs of super- h
stitioh, above the dust clouds of commerce, above the smoke of war, i ]
the luminous countenance of the Jesus whom they have not compre- 11
bended, and hear and understand as they have never before heard and j <
understood his words. j
They will then understand when they sing, “ Nearer, my God, to i \
Thee,” that the nearer they are to God, the further they are from the j
sectarian divisions of the Church; and when they shall have fully j
imbibed the spirit of Divine love, they will begin to love all mankind j (
as God loves them, and send forth their loving energies to help, to j j
uphold, to advance, and sustain all men as God sustains them by the j)
ever-shining sun of our planetary system, and the still brighter light i (
of spiritual life. How far have we all fallen below this Divine ideal, i)
below the Divine life in which our sympathies flow out to every fellow- ;)
being. |
There is but one scintillant spot in the darkness of earth-life, M
! where this Divine love seems to have a temporary home. It is when
] a man’s loving nature has grown up into one bright flower of perfect
11 love, and when in obedience to the impulse of that love he stands at
j i its altar and promises to love, to cherish, and protect the woman whom
(I he loves, and she, with still more devotion, gives not only her person
j i and estate, but even her independent will, in a promise of obedience
| which the law prescribes, but which true love never would exact.
(| Vowing to each other a deathless love, and mutual support in all the
) | storms of life, if it be a marriage of Divine love, they have secured
(| their happiness for this life and the next.
> | The influx of Divine love into this sacred home is all that makes
) I earth-life endurable at present. From that home of love come all the
\ j virtues and all the progress of humanity. If that home could be
) j enlarged, until a thousand homes were as one ; if the sentiments of
/ i that romantic period in life when we see and feel in all Nature, all
(i over the skies, the forests, and the flowers, the smile of her divinity,
) i could be made the permanent sentiment of life ; if every newly-married
I pair could be introduced into a charmed circle, where everything would
(| be redolent of love, and where their own love should ever be sustained
11 by lovely surroundings, then the ideal of life, the Divine life on earth,
(j might be attained, and we should have the Divine Republic conceived
j j by Solon, in which an injury to the humblest citizen would be felt by
) | the entire community.
\ Such conceptions of human life are called Utopian, and given up as
j utterly impracticable. But they are the trim conceptions of life
j demanded by the principles of Jesus, and of every great religious
( teacher; and if the pretended Church of Christ has ignored and
) abandoned his principles, they are none the less true ; and now that
( we see their truth in the clear light of science, they are none the less
( interesting — I may say none the less new — for having been
) sententiously announced in Jerusalem nearly nineteen centuries ago.
( If these principles are true, they rise in importance above all other
j principles, theories, and doctrines, and they call us by a Divine com-
) mand to come up higher, to live on a higher plane of life—that plane
( , of life on which all hearts sympathise with each other, all souls:
j harmoniously blend in the perception of truth, all arms are raised to’
) achieve the same good works, and, like the Highland clans of Lochiel,,
( <£ our swords are a thousand, but our hearts are as one,” but our only
j sword is the all-conquering sword of Divine love.
) PRINCIPLES OP ORGANISATION.
The first step, then, in obedience to our principles (if they are
< sincerely entertained), is to .unite in a friendly and co-operative way,
| unite for the “good time coming,” unite to send the blessings which
we enjoy to all the world, unite to conquer ignorance, bigotry, selfish¬
ness, poverty, disease, and crime, for if we hate them we will rally
to unite for their extermination, unite to protect ourselves by mutual
strength and mutual love from all the troubles of this life, and to
( carry Divine truth and Divine love into the hearts of all men, and
j regenerate a selfish and benighted world.
| I say, “ if our principles are sincerely entertained,” for of the vast
( multitudes of people who are sometimes loosely called Spiritualists,
j | there are few who have any principle in the matter. Multitudes are
j mere spectators, who look on in wonder, as they would in a menagerie.
) 1 Many of them are narrow-minded, impracticable, and crotchety people,
I j who have no spirit of candid investigation, who denounced the spiritual
i f phenomena as fraudulent before knowing anything about them, and who,
i after seeing them a thousand times, find themselves unable to deny
1 them, but never take one step forward spontaneously; they are not active
i opponents simply because they have been silenced; they are conquered
i rebels, but they are not reconstructed or loyal. They are miserable
[ sinners who have been induced to attend the church, but they have
i never repented of their sins. At every new form of spirit power they
> raise a new cavil, and they hold all honourable and innocent mediums
| for such phenomena guilty until they have proved their innocence,
i Careful scientific investigation of the most thorough nature should never
I be objected to; but to assume guilt in advance, or to make charges of
II fraud upon insufficient evidence, is an outrage of the grossest character,
11 which has often been practised upon honest and unselfish mediums.
| ] Some of these crotchety individuals would have us turn our backs
j upon our spirit-friends, drive them back in their benevolent approach,
I and discontinue either all communications with the spirit-world, or all
communications in which convincing physical phenomena are not
I apparent.
| The subject of union, which I have just broached, is altogether too
| extensive for an anniversary address. It would require rather a course
of lectures, and, but for the paramount importance and necessity of
presenting these ideas, I should not now bring them forward for the
brief mention which is all that is possible on this occasion.
In proposing to speak of the Divine commands for 1878,1 feel that
the great,duties which are ever incumbent—the Divine commands
which are ever coming into the inner chambers of the soul—point to a
definite course of action at present, and that course is union. I do not
| say organisation, for that conveys an external, mechanical idea. There:
| may be any amount of organisation without union, without life, without
| power, without usefulness. It is the vital spirit that we want. The
| vital spirit makes organisation corresponding to itself, but organisation
never produces life.
If we have enough of the vital spirit, which is love, we can organise
j spontaneously with very little effort; and if we have not, all our organi-
I sation will come to nought. We must have men before we build houses
! for them. The building of a house will not create a man to occupy it.
I propose, then, as a duty imposed by a Divine command, that
| Spiritualists shall everywhere unite in the most harmonious rela¬
tions that are possible. At some future time I may explain more
j fully the methods and plans that will produce the happiest results, but
1 for the present I would give merely a few suggestions for the introduction
April 19, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
185
of that union which is strength within and power without; that union | (j
which will enable us to command the world’s respect, to control the | [ j
press, to modify legislation, to wield a controlling power over public | (j
opinion, to command the attention and respect of scientists, to render j \ I
mediumship an honourable and sacred thing, to lift the annoyed and |) j
persecuted mediums into an atmosphere of peace and happiness, and to j) j
secure for the angel-world, which is so freely and so kindly coming here j (i
for our benefit, a reception befitting the dignity of the occasion.
There is nothing in this world’s history of a more elevated nature— j) I
there is nothing that should command a deeper reverence or a more (j
inspiring enthusiasm, than the arrival here of an angel-messenger from j) i
that world of life, light, and love, to which in our inmost souls we all H
bow down with deepest reverence. j (j
That the advent of angels now is only to a few individuals—the j >!
kindliest and most progressive—while to the majority it is a matter of m
indifference, suspicion, or hostility, is not in accordance with the J (j
“ eternal fitness of things ” or the laws of ethics. I look forward to a 111
more civilised period, when messengers from the higher realms above ]) |
us will be received by reverent multitudes, and by all the wise and good, l j •
with more true honour than we would now accord to the Emperor of J; j
Germany or Russia. I j j
Excuse this digression. The Divine command is that ye shall love | (i
one another, and, consequently, unite in your labours and loves. Unite J > j
to help the growth and progress of truth; unite to grow in knowledge; ) I
unite to grow in love; unite to carry each other higher up in the (\
heavenly path; unite to help each other in the social relations, the Vj
business and duties of life ; unite to conquer the world, but to conquer ) j
it by the power of love. 11
It is safe to say that whenever such a union shall be formed—when- ) i
ever one hundred men and women shall combine in solid phalanx, ) j
loving and united as one brotherhood or family—that brotherhood, if (j
true and perfect, will be the germinal centre of the brotherhood that ) j
will in time embrace the world. In such a brotherhood the angels will )
have their dwelling, and the Divine Spirit will inspire and uphold its (
progress. )
To organise merely for the sake of organisation as an exterior process, (
or to organise mainly to satisfy the ambition of one or more leaders, \
would be only following in the dusty pathway by which men have been ;
accustomed to travel from a disorganised individual selfishness to the (
organised selfishness and conservative stupidity of corporations. {
Spiritual organisation must be different from that to which the world is /
accustomed. It must begin with that interior divine life which is to (
grow and mould its surroundings, as the embryon developes a body. (
The aim, therefore, must be to preserve and develop the embryonic 5
vitality to greater life and power.. Yet I fear that even the embryo does j
not yet exist. Inorganic matter exists, and perhaps a protoplasmic (
element that is ready to be organised so far as to receive the influx of a )
true life. What we need, then, is to organise receptive conditions for (
influx, the centres or nuclei in which th6 germs of Divine life shall be (
nourished and kept warm, and shall consummate their materialisation j /
in human life. (
Development, which is our aim, depends upon reciprocity. The sun’s I \
rays pass through the freezing regions of the upper atmosphere, and j)
impart little heat until they meet the reflective reciprocity of earth, where j (
they generate the scorching heat of the desert sands. Love in young I j
hearts that meets no reciprocity exhales its sweetness to the air, withers j)
and dies, or droops into a morbid and malarious condition, and the j (
energies that would have produced a happy home and a noble posterity j)
are, perhaps, worse than lost. • (
Thus is it with all isolated love—all impulses that meet no reciprocity, i (
The vast moral energies of mankind are prodigally wasted and lost in j)
our present isolation, but as soon as the moral power which exists among j (
the best is organised into reciprocity, there will be a new moral life in j (
society which will astonish by its pervading power. j j
We have seen the power of organisation in every war. The army of i (
Napoleon could have conquered any entire continent that offered only | (|
the unorganised opposition of mobs. We have seen the power of moral i > j
organisations in the Christian Church, especially in the Roman Catholic I ) j
section. Armies pass away, and military power loses its sway; every i (I
nation that conquers is conquered in turn, but moral power does not I) i
pass away, because it has within it a Divine and indestructible element, i ( |
Hence the Christian Church has held dominion for these nineteen j \ i
centuries over the flower of the human race, notwithstanding it has been j) i
crippled and poisoned by a horrible theology. (1
As much as the Church is better than the army, and more enduring, !) |
so much is Christianity better than the Church, and when it comes j) |
in its purity, it will be more powerful and lasting, for the final i (|
evolution of true religion will be eternal on earth and in heaven. I) I
Whether the time for this evolution is at hand, or how near it may I) j
be, I would not say, but I shall be disappointed if my life shall end | j!
without witnessing a distinct beginning of this mighty change. |)!
And how shall it begin? Will a leader spring into the field, all j)j
equipped, like Minerva from the brain of Jove, and bring all men into j (|
their position by his overmastering will and wisdom ? I do not anticipate I) j
this, although I believe it may be possible. I believe it will be j) j
developed not from a commanding head or centre to the circumference, i (
but from the circumference to the centre. . I believe that men and j)
women will grow up in a hundred thousand homes of love under the j)
spiritual enlightenment of the age, getting nearer and nearer to j\
heaven, and, therefore, nearer and nearer to each other, until in the I j
spiritual atmosphere they feel heart beating against heart, and they will jf
come together in camp-meetings and love-feasts, in social clubs and U
united efforts, until they will realise the necessity and the ease of com- j;
bining all their powers, so that with their united will-power they will it
control the will of society, and with their thousand arms reaching forth |v
as one arm, they shall take hold of every wrong that needs to be re- \'l
dressed, and every right that needs to be upheld. '*!
I have a definite conception of what should be done now and here
to realise all that is possible, but it would exceed the proper limits
of this address to develop the plans, and I will only add, in conclu¬
sion, that the Spiritualists of the present generation are capable, if
they have the will, of founding a new organisation, a new moral
kingdom, not marked by the personal or local or peculiar charac¬
teristics of those founded by Buddha, by Jesus, and by Mahomet, but
drawing into itself more largely the element of Divine Love and extend¬
ing its influence and sway through countless centuries.
WOMAN-SELLING.
The cries of anguish rising from many a home in America and
England, because of the unceasing suffering due to uncongenial mar¬
riage relations, are in the great majority of cases due to parents having
taught their inexperienced children to sell themselves in the matrimonial
market for worldly advantages, or, in other words, to subjugate the
spiritual to the material. Sometimes the children are as earthy and
low in motive in these matters as the parents, but as a rule such is not
the case. Christianity and religion are not responsible for the evil, but
the vicious nature of the parents, whose actions will, some fifty or a
hundred years hence, be regarded in the light in which we now survey
the animality of those men of fashion of the days of the Georges, whose
pride it was to be able to drink four or more bottles of wine without
falling under the table in a state of drunkenness. Such a sensual life
was not regarded as very objectionable in those days, just as in these
the selling of children by parents, at the sacrifice of true affections, is
publicly treated as a somewhat light matter. The following extract
from an article in the new Conservative journal, London, of last week,
is a case in point:—
“ Was it not Harley who used to sing—
’Tis a very fine thing to be father-in-law
To a very magnificent three-tailed Bashaw ?
And are there not still fathers (aye, and mothers too) in plenty who
would cheerfully devote their Iphigenias to the Hymeneal sacrifice,
provided always that the right of the bridegroom to the triple appendage
—or its corresponding equivalent—were incontestable ? Where is the
young lady nowadays who would fail to pass a satisfactory examination
in those indispensable manuals, Debrett and Burke? When we read in
the Court Journal that Lord Eaglecrest is on the point of attaining his
majority, we cannot divest ourselves of a feeling of commiseration for
the youthful nobleman, knowing beforehand what snares and pit-falls
are already preparing for his entanglement; we imagine family conclaves
diligently discussing the amount of his. rental, and the possible draw*
backs in the shape of mortgages or other incidental deductions from his
annual income, and speculating on the prospective chances of Ethel or
Dulcibella, who are both about to be presented next season. Everyone,
however, fortunately, is not blessed with a daughter to marry ; but the
lack of this incentive to parental exertion in no way detracts from the
prestige instinctively accorded to the possessor of a title; he may
be as old as Methusalem, or as brainless as Lord Mutanhed, but
neither his senility nor his idiocy will in any material degree affect
his popularity. We remember in our younger days being occa¬
sionally invited to the board of a hospitable Amphitryon, in all respects
save one a sensible and rational member of society, but unable
to resist the gratification of parading a lord at his table; and as
his acquaintance with the peerage happened to be limited to a
single specimen, a venerable septuagenarian who never uttered a word
during dinner, and fell asleep directly after it, the place of honour
invariably reserved for him might as well have been empty. We were
reminded of this interesting relic of antiquity not long ago by a somewhat
similar rencontre at the house of an individual who had made his fortune
in trade, and imagined that a golden Open Sesame must inevitably
prove a sure and irresistible passport to fashionable notoriety; with this
aim in view, he hired a furnished mansion in Millennium-square,
organised a series of brilliant entertainments, and inaugurated them by
a dinner at which his great card, a decrepit dowager of ancient lineage,
but sadly dilapidated exterior, kindly consented to preside. As ill-luck
would have it, she had been accustomed for years to her post-prandial nap,
and began insensibly to doze while the ices were handed round, so that,
by the time the ladies were ready to adjourn to the drawing-room, it
became a matter of some difficulty to rouse her from her slumber and
instal her without further misadventure at the whist-table. If truth
must be told, she had peculiar notions of the game, scarcely in
accordance with the principles laid down by the illustrious Hoyle, for
when she neglected to trump her partner’s thirteenth, she invariably
revoked; but these trifling oversights were, in virtue of her position,
cheerfully ignored, and so carefully were her interests attended to, that,
when the countess’s carriage was at length announced, she most
assuredly did not go away a loser.”
Dr. Peebles will visit St. John’s, Newfoundland, before returning to
the United States.
Spiritualism in Hull.—Last Sunday Mr. William Wallace, medium,
of London, gave a trance address in the Foresters’ Hall, Hull. It was
the first of the kind ever given to the public in that town. The hall was
well filled, and at the close of the address numerous questions were
asked, and answered satisfactorily. It was then arranged that on
Tuesday night Mr. Wallace should give another trance address in one
of the rooms offered by Mr. Bland, of 2, Caroline-street, Hull, for the
benefit of Mr. Wallace. There was again a full attendance. Regular
meetings have been held in the Foresters’ Hall on the last four
Sunday evenings, but they will now be discontinued for a season.
Inquirers who wish to further investigate Spiritualism, are requested to
write or call upon Mr. J. L. Bland, 2, Caroline-street, Hull,
186
THfe SPIRITUALIST.
April 19,’ 1878.
FURTHEE EXPERIMENTS "WITH DR. SLADE IN RUSSIA.
To the Editor of the “ Banner of Light” (Boston, U.S.)
Sir,—It is now six weeks since Dr. Slade gave his first
seance in St. Petersburg. The Russian journals are more
liberal than those of any country we have visited, and, as
far as I can learn, have spoken favourably of Dr. Slade
and the subject of Spiritualism. Very respectful notices of
Professor Zollner’s experiments have appeared in some of
them, while Professor Boutlerof has published a pamphlet
on them. A report of the experiments with Dr. Slade will also
be published after they finish their investigations here.
Some of the manifestations are entirely new (having been
suggested by the investigators), which, when published with
illustrations, cannot fail to interest thinking minds. I will
at the present time cite only one of the many. In a
seance given to Mr. Aksakof and Professor Boutlerof, at
Mr. Aksakof’s house, two pocket compasses were placed
upon the table side by side. By requesting the spirits to
turn the needle of one while the other remained stationary,
it would be done, thus destroying the theory that it was
turned by a concealed magnet, which must affect both in
the same manner.
Dr. Hoffman writes from Leipzig that Professor Zollner
is desirous of continuing his experiments, and would like to
have Dr. Slade there before the close of this month. But
the engagements here will prevent his going to Leipzic
before about the first of May.
Mr. Liebing writes from Berlin that public opinion is
beginning to react in favour of Dr. Slade, and that Dr.
Wittig has obtained a hearing on the subject in an illus¬
trated journal. J. Simmons.
Hotel de la Paix, St. Petersburg, March 11th, 1878.
HENRY MORE, ON FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
BT EBBS SARGENT.
It is quite evident from the writings of Henry More, the
Platonist (born 1614, died 1687), that he was well acquainted
with the modern phenomenon of spirit materialisation. I
am the owner of a copy of the original edition of his work
on The Immortality of the Soul, but at present it is in New
York; I having loaned it to the library of the Theosophical
Society. The proofs of my assertion as to his acquaintance
with the phenomenon are scattered through that volume,
not now accessible to me; but I also find them in More’s
poem on “ The Pre-existence of the Soul,” the following
extracts from which are given in evidence :—
“ Show fitly how the pre-existent soul
Enacts and enters bodies here below,
And then entire, unhurt can leave this moul,
And thence her airy vehicle can draw,
In which by sense and motion they may know,
Better than we, what things transacted be
Upon the earth, and when they list may show,
Themselves to friend or foe, their phantasie
Moulding their airy orb to gross consistency ... -
Wherefore the sout possessed of matter meet,
If she hath power to operate thereon,
Can eath transform this vehicle to light,
Dight with due color figuration;
Can speak, can walk, and then dispear anon,
Spreading herself in the dispersed air,
Then, if she please, recall again what's gone''
Henry More then goes on to speak of the effect of the
mind upon the body, even in this mortal state, and tells us
how “ phantasie,” or the working of the mind, in cases of
pestilence, may affect the bodily parts, and even produce
death. He says :—[
“ All these declare the force of phantasie,
Though working here upon this stubborn clay;
But the airy vehicle yields more easily,
Unto her beck more nimbly doth obey.”
More was a reincarnationist, and I wonder that the
upholders of that theory have not resorted to his pages
more frequently for help in their arguments. I am not the
owner of his Psychozoid, or Life of the Soul, afterwards
republished with other pieces in a volume, entitled Philo¬
sophical Poems. Campbell says of him : “ Before the
appearance of the former work, he had studied the Platonic
writers and mystic divines till his frame had become
emaciated and his faculties had been strained to such enthu¬
siasm that he began to talk of holding supernatural communi-
] y cations, and imagine that his body exhaled the perfume of
|) | violets.”
| i All this would seem to indicate to us Spiritualists simply,
] |! that, at one period of his life, Henry More was a medium
| | for spirit influences. Campbell tells us that the “ ‘Psychozoid'
m is not a common-place production; a certain solemnity and
I earnestness in his tone leaves an impression that he
j> | ‘believed the magic wonders which he sung.’ ” Doubtless, he
111 not only believed, but knew.
111 The Philosophical Poems of Henry More may probably be
| | found in the British Museum; and I hope that some of
| your readers, with leisure for the task, will examine them
11 for further evidences of his thorough acquaintance with the
| modern phenomena.
( I No. 68, Moreland-street, Boston, Mass.
ALLEUED JAPANESE MEDIUMS AT THE PARIS
EXHIBITION.
) (From the 11 San Francisco Post.”)
Among the arrivals yesterday on the steamship City of
Pekin were two priests from the interior of Japan, claiming
to be endowed with miraculous power. They are on their
| way to the Paris Exposition with a party of their country-
I men, conducted by two English gentlemen who have for
j) several years resided in Japan. A reporter interviewed
II these gentlemen last evening. They told him that the
| priests are religious enthusiasts, who profess, through the
11 power of faith and by the medium of prayer, to be enabled
II to do the most remarkable things—such as are recorded in
I the Christian gospels as in the power of the followers of
| | Jesus—referring to those passages which speak of their
j j being able to remove mountains, and to swallow deadly
j | poisons without harm. One of the miraculous things which
j | these priests are able to do is to walk with naked- feet over
j | the edges of swords ground to the keenness of a razor, and
| also over a bed of live coals. They never attempt this
j without a formal and fervent appeal to their divinity for
I protection, and they assert most positively that it would
| be impossible for them to perform the works they do without
| | divine interference in their behalf. They intend to exhibit
I | these remarkable powers in Paris during their stay, and will
I j | challenge the devotees of the Christian or any other faith to
j do the things that they do. In answer to an inquiry whether
III they would exhibit their powers in this country, the gentle-
| I men said that such was not their intention.
I | “MOTHER SHIPTON’S PROPHECY.”
1 < j BT C. C. MASSEY.
j i In The Spiritualist of the 5th inst., information is asked
|| for respecting the authenticity and antiquity of Mother
| Shipton’s prophecy. There are many enigmatical predic-
| | tions called Mother Shipton’s, and collected in the various
j editions since 1641, which bear that name. The one
| i referred to, is, I suppose, that which is most popularly
| | known, and which has lately been hawked about the streets,
j beginning “ Carriages without horses shall go,” and con-
| | eluding
|) | “ The world to an end shall come,
j j In eighteen hundred eighty-one.”
| | Some years ago, there was a somewhat frequent correspon-
j | dence on the subject of Mother Shipton in Notes and Queries,
! i and the above prophecy jyas noted as absent from an edition
| | of 1797.
i | . The correspondence winds up with the following note by the
111 Editor {N. andL. 4th series, vol. xi., p. 355).” Mr. Charles
I | Hindley, of Brighton, in a letter to us has made a clean
111 breast of having fabricated the prophecy with some ten
j | others included in his reprint of a cheap book version pub-
ijj lished in ]862.” I believe this is not generally known,
| 1 though without the discovery of its origin, the modern
jjj diction of the prophecy, and its absence from the old
jjl editions would prevent any critical person, or any one who
| j took the trouble to enquire, from being taken in. Why the
j< I not too ingenious Mr. Hindley should have fixed on the year
jjj 1881 for tlie end of the world (whatever he meant to be
ij j understood by that) remains obscure. He might also be
j I asked, if still living, whether he wrote “England shall at
last admit a few ” or ufoef as another version is. In the
187
April 19, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST.
former case the “prophecy” would have been recently 1
fulfilled in 1862. But the true Mother Shipton usually pre- i j
dieted disasters. i j
PRINTED ALLEGATIONS AGAINST MRS. WELDON.
Mrs. Weldon returned to London from France a few days ago, and it j
will be seen from the following letter that reports have been set afloat
that she is perhaps labouring under delusions. Seeing that Mrs. Lowe,
honorary secretary to the Lunacy Law Reform Association, was once
locked up as a lunatic for her writing mediumship, and had great diffi¬
culty in getting out, it is a dangerous thing that such rumours should be j
circulated. Mrs.Weldon is of remarkable ability, and how sane and clear¬
headed she is, her various contributions to this journal prove. The |
Lunacy Laws require careful and prompt revision. We heard a man
depose before the Parliamentary Committee on the subject, that a woman
known by him to be sane suddenly disappeared, and he wondered what
had become of her ; no letters came to him from her, although he was j
an intimate friend, and not until a long time afterwards did the informa- j
tion reach him that she was in a lunatic asylum. Assuming her to have
been sane, as stated by him, her condition of mind at being locked up
among mad people must have been almost distressing enough to have
driven her insane in real earnest.
Here is a letter, of which she posted a copy early on Monday to the
Standard and The Spiritualist. We omit a few words which, however
true they may be, are actionable at law:—
To the Editor of the “ Standard”
Sir,—Allow me to correct a curious misstatement made in your report
of the charge against a Frenchman, at Bow-street, on Saturday. Your
report of what Mr. Grain said was quite incorrect. He never said I was
carrying on the Orphanage “ without the co-operation of my husband,”
and he did not say “ I might be labouring under delusions.”
Mr. Weldon gives me .£1,000 a-year and Tavistock House for the pur¬
pose. I began this work which has gradually transformed itself since the
year 1869. Mr. Weldon tired of it in 1875, on account of the great and
almost overwhelming sorrow it has brought upon us; but, being what is
called “ strong-minded,” I have kept it up as well as I could ever since,
and still hope to be able to keep the fifty children I always intended to
educate.
      I 8,m not
surprised to see that insinuation creep into the newspapers. In the
meanwhile, I beg to assure you I am as strong and as fearless in purpose
as it is possible to be, and am quite certain that if more persons were
afflicted with the delusions attributed to me, poverty and crime would
be less universal.
I beg you, sir, in the name of justice, and for the sake of ten little
children who have no friend in the world but me, to crush at once this
first public insinuation as to my delusions.—Your obedient servant,
Georgina Weldon.
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London,
Monday, April 15th, 1878.
The Standard did not print the above on the following morning,
although readers will probably think that it was bound in honour so to
do, when they note the closing part of its Monday’s printed report of
the proceedings at Bow-street police-court. The following is the para¬
graph in question:—
“ The Charge against a Frenchman.—Jean Menier, a Frenchman,
who had been described as an hotel keeper, but who, previous to his
arrest, had occupied apartments for two days at the Hotel Conte, in
Golden-square, and was said to be an engineer by profession, was again
brought before Mr. Flowers on the charge of having stolen wearing
apparel and other property from Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, the
residence of Mrs. Georgina Weldon, the well-known founder of an
orphanage.—Mrs. Weldon conducted her own case for the prosecution,
and Mr. Grain appeared for the defendant.—It will be remembered that
the prisoner was placed in partial charge of Tavistock House during
the absence of the prosecutrix in Paris. Upon her return she missed
some things, and following one of prisoner’s boxes to the hotel, she
opened it, and found about £15 worth of things belonging to her inside
it, while the officer who apprehended the prisoner found duplicate keys
upon him which fitted the drawers from which the articles had been
taken.—Mrs. Weldon now handed in a long list of articles, including
jewellery, pictures, furniture, &c., which had been taken from the house
during her absence, and some of which had been traced to a room taken
by the prisoner in the Euston-road. She said she had, however, a far
more serious charge to make against the prisoner, of having conspired
with his brother, Eugene Menier, and another, to destroy her
character. She had discovered letters.—Mr. Flowers, interposing, said
it would be necessary for the present to confine the inquiry to the
charge of felony.—Mrs. Weldon said that some furniture had been
recovered, but a beautiful necklace worth £250, a coral pin worth £7, a
valuable fan worth between £30 and £40, besides a vast quantity of
other things, were still missing. She made the acquaintance of the
prisoner’s wife two years ago, and engaged her to assist witness in the
conduct of her orphanage.—In reply to Mr. Grain, Mrs. Weldon stated
that her husband was one of the Queen’s heralds, and that Tavistock
House belonged to him. She first saw the prisoner in 1872, when M.
Gounod was residing in her house, with her husband, when he was
engaged to assist M. Gounod in some kind of literary work, the prisoner
having then represented himself as a journalist of some influence.
She had no transactions with him then, but she subsequently advanced
him sums of money in aid of benevolent and other objects—one being
an item of £60 to recover a child which had been stolen. She paid him
many hundreds of pounds, and obtained for him a war balloon from the
War Office. One of the sums was £50 to start a paper. She had kept
him and all his family for two years. He did not actually live in the
J house. He was too dirty. —Mr. Grain said he had no desire to say a
I single word which could be regarded as disrespectful to Mrs. Weldon,
who had a large sympathy with the afflicted, and he remembered that
| she was present at the court during a certain investigation about table
moving.—Mrs. Weldon: That is true; if you mean the case of Dr.
|: Slade. I was present every day.—Mr. Grain : I only think it possible
that the lady, who has been carrying on the orphanage in a house well
known as the former residence of Charles Dickens, without the co-
| operation, apparently, of her husband, might be labouring under some
delusion as to the doings of my client.—The case was then remanded.”
There is more in this matter than the mere use of the word
| “delusion” in a police-court. In the course of a note to us, accom¬
panying the foregoing copy of the letter to The Standard, Mrs. Weldon
says—“ I nearly got carried off last night to a madhouse ! I was
terrified.”
We saw Mrs. Weldon last week, soon after her return from France,
J whither she had taken the children of her Orphanage, for the sake of
economy. She gave a more rational and condensed account of her
proceedings on the Continent than ninety-nine persons out of a
II hundred could have done, and no doubt Mr. Flowers and all the police
) | in the court at Bow-street, can bear witness that Mrs. Weldon con-
! i ducted her own case against Menier last Saturday much more rationally
| and vigorously than would have been done had she engaged a lawyer to
I muddle it for her.
(I Her support of Dr. Slade, after she had well tested the phenomena,
/ ] shows her intelligence, and recent results have verified the conclusions
(| of herself and those who think with her. Dr. Slade, after giving a
11 seance to the Chief of Police in Berlin, allowed Samuel Bellachini,
j j the Court Conjurer to the Emperor of Germany, to test him, and
j | Bellachini, after so doing, made oath before a public notary that the
(i phenomena were genuine, and not conjuring tricks. He next gave
> | seances to five or six professors at Leipzig University, with the result
(i as published in the last number of the Quarterly Journal of Science,
(| that Professor Zollner certified that in Slade’s presence four knots
) i came upon an endless cord, in a good light, without Slade touching
(i the cord. Now he is at St. Petersburg giving seances to the Grand
(i Duke Constantine, who is pleased with the results. Hence Mrs.
(j Weldon’s conclusions about Dr. Slade are more rational and trust-
i worthy than those of ignorant people who have not investigated or
l\ witnessed the facts. The faithful way in which she supported Dr.
!; Slade, to the extent even of personally helping to ward off the attack
upon him in the repulsive moral atmosphere of a police-court, will
intensify the interest of Spiritualists all over the world in the matter
now under notice.
Since the above was in type, we have been told that further particu¬
lars about this matter have just been printed in Truth, to the honour of
that journal. Last Monday afternoon another attempt was made by
j three persons to seize Mrs. Weldon to lock her up in a madhouse, but
she escaped from them. Fortunately, the various matters mentioned
j in this article will now, no doubt, be thoroughly sifted in courts of
| justice, in the full light of day.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten was expected by Australian Spirit-
| ualists to reach Melbourne on the first of March, and arrangements
j had been made for the delivery of her first lecture there, in the Opera
House.
On Sunday next, April 21st, Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance
address in the Co-operative Hall, Derby. Subject—“Spiritualism:
its Facts and Teachings.” Service at 6.30 p.m. Mr. Morse will
deliver another address, subject chosen by the audience, at the same
hall, on Monday, April 22nd, at 8 p.m.
Mr. Morse at Ulverston. — On Friday evening last, Mr. J. J.
Morse delivered a discourse in the Temperance Hall, Ulverston, which
has caused a considerable amount of excitement in the quiet little
town. Sent thither by the Lancashire Association of Spiritualists,
arrangements were made for a public meeting. Mr. R. Casson presided.
I (j The chairman has of late somewhat interested himself in Spiritualism,
jh but still maintains that he has not yet passed beyond the position of
| | an “investigator.” There was a good attendance. Several subjects
111 were sent up for selection, and, finally, the meeting, by a large ma-
| (| jority, decided that Mr. Morse should speak ou “ Where are the Dead,
| j j and how are they Employed ? ” Mr. Morse’s guide then for an hour
||| and a quarter dealt with this topic. As he gradually unfolded the
| (| spiritual philosophy in regard to the hereafter, it was amusing to note
111 the looks of wonder stamped on the faces of many of the church and
| (| chapel goers present, who had, perhaps, never before had such strong
| (| food served out to them. At the close of the lecture Mr. Morse replied
to various questions addressed to him.
188
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 19, 1878,
STRAY THOUGHTS ON THINGS SPIRITUAL.
Man alone
Can perform the impossible !
He distinguishes, chooses, and judges.
He can impart
To the moment duration.—Goethe.
Few more interesting works were published last year
than The Story of my Life, by the late Colonel Meadows
Taylor, one of the few Europeans who, during a long residence
in India, completely acquired the love and confidence of the
natives, knew their habits, inner lives, and language, as
themselves, but never forgot he was an Englishman and a
Christian. His well-known stories, Tara Seeta, the Con¬
fessions of a Thug, &c., attest how thoroughly he knew the
country and its people. He was a man of extraordinary
mesmeric force, and probably possessed latent powers that
were never developed. All that he relates may be regarded
as thoroughly trustworthy, and there are not a few passages
in the book of special interest to Spiritualists. One or two
may be extracted. He was deeply attached to his wife,
with whom he had many years of happiness, and after her
death, though feeling his loneliness bitterly, he deter¬
mined to live out his remaining life alone, and never
seek marriage with another, and did so keep faith till his
death to her who was gone. “This determination,” he
writes, “was the result of a very curious and strange incident
that befell me during one of my marches to Hyderabad. I have
never forgotten it, and it returns to this day to my memory
with a strangely vivid effect which I can neither repel nor
explain. In my very early life I had been deeply and
devotedly attached to one in England, and only relinquished
the hope of one day winning her when the terrible order
came out that no furlough to Europe would be granted.
One evening, after a long march, I lay down very weary;
but the baying of jackals and barking of village dogs, and
over-fatigue and heat, prevented sleep. I was wide awake
and restless. Suddenly, for my tent door was wide open, |
I saw the face and figure so familiar to me, but looking I
older, and with a sad and troubled expression. The dress j
was white; it seemed covered with a profusion of lace, and
glistened in the bright moonlight. The arms were stretched j
out, and a low, plaintive cry of f Ho not let me go ! do not j
let me go! ’ reached me. I sprang forward, but the figure
receded, growing fainter and fainter, till I could see it no
longer; but the low, sad tones still sounded. I had run, j
barefooted, across the open space where my tents were
pitched, very much to the astonishment of the sentry on
guard; but I returned to my tent without speaking to him. j
I wrote to my father. I wished to know whether there was
any hope for me. He wrote back to me these words:—
‘ Too late, my dear son; on the very day of the vision you j
describe to me, was married.’ ” (Yol. ii., p. 32.)
Another remarkable instance, Colonel Taylor assures us,
may be accepted as “ an authentic ghost-story.” He tells it j
thus:—“ There were two companies of the 74th Highlanders
at Shorapur, in the Hyderabad country, with Col. Hughes’s I
force. After the place was taken—this was in the time of |
the Mutiny, 1858—one company was located in my house i
on the hill, the other remaining in camp below the town. !
One afternoon Capt. , the senior officer, was sitting in j
his tent writing letters for England, as the mail had to be
forwarded by that evening’s post, and had had the side-wall
of his tent opened for light and air, when a young man of
his company appeared suddenly before him in his hospital
dress, without his cap, and, without saluting him, said, ‘ I j
wish, sir, you would kindly have my arrears of pay sent to j
my mother, who lives at ; please take down the address.’ j
Capt.  took down the address mechanically, and said, j
4 All right, my man ; that will do.’ And, again making no j
salute, the man went away. A moment after, Capt.   !
remembered that the dress and appearance of the soldier,
and his manner of coming in were highly irregular, and
desired his orderly to send the serjeant to him directly. I
1 Why did you allow  to come to me in that irregular
manner?’ he asked, as soon as the serjeant came. The man
was thunderstruck. £ Sir,’ he exclaimed, ‘ died yester¬
day in hospital, and was buried this morning.- Are you
sure, sir, you saw him ?’ ‘ Quite sure,’ was the reply; ‘ and !
here is a memorandum I took down from him of his mother’s !
address, to whom he wished his pay to be sent.’ £ That is
•strange, sir,’ said the serjeant; ‘ his things were sold by
auction to-day, and I could not find where the money should
be sent in the company’s registry, but it may be in the
general registry with the regiment.’ The books were
searched; the address taken down was proved to be correct,
and the circumstance made a profound impression upon all
who knew the facts.” (Vol. ii., p. 294.)
These accounts could find many parallels in the annals of
Spiritualism, but they are noteworthy as being of the first
degree of authenticity, and as presenting some special
features of interest. In the latter story the apparition was
seen in broad daylight, and the former is an example of a
wraith or double of a living person appearing in a moment
of intense mental agitation at a distance of half the earth’s
circumference from its living form. Instances like this give
rise to strange thoughts on the mysteries of our being and
the constitution of the world apart from our senses. These
etS®Aa of living bodies, projected with electric speed over
land and sea, and impressing living eyes with forms in their
habit as they lived, and living ears and the sound-conveying
air with uttered words,—whence and what is the substance
that enables them to hit mortal sense ? Or is there sub¬
stance at all ? Ho the Time and Space, needful for the
mortal percipient, exist for them, or exist apart from human
sensation ? Hoes Matter have any entity of its own inde¬
pendent of those senses, so various and so imperfect, by
which the living organism can recognise itself and receive
the impressions of appearance and things out of itself?
From the days of “ thrice-great Hermes” to those of Fichte
the mind of man has questioned this mystery, and there has
been no answer, nor can be, whilst the senses have to reply
on a subject whereof they have no cognisance. Many
answers have been hazarded, often with much confidence,
Philosophy has returned many, so has Theology, and Spirit¬
ualism to-day has a good many replies. Much has been said
about a trinitarian constitution of man, the parts whereof
are all equal in the one eternal essence, which, however, is
no essence, but one indefinable, incomprehensible principle.
Platonists, Kabalists, and Brahmans of old have said their
say, and all and always without the smallest success. The
veil of the senses has not been raised, though Yogis, Lamas,
Ascetics, Mediums, and Theosophists, have for centuries
been tugging hard at it, and sometimes almost seemed to
have made a rent. If ever it be raised. Science will be the
lifter—Science, at whom Spiritualists* now seem to look
askance—not prejudice, not mistake, not Oarpenterian or
Lankesterian Science, but the Science which measures the
speed of light and the height of the Moon’s mountains, the
Science which proves the existence of earthly elements in
the sun and in the stars, and enables men to hold audible
discourse a hundred miles apart. What are clairaudience
and clairvoyance to her feats ? What the production of
materialised forms to her chemistry ? She shall one day
disclose their cause and secret,—she who has revealed the
composition of Light and the bonds that hold the planets
in their courses. Hot guess, not hypothesis, but verified
knowledge, the reason and process of which can be shown
and proved—that is Science. And Theosophy, Magic, and
Metaphysics through all their millenniums of talk have done
no such feats, and won no such triumphs. Still after
centuries of experience, centuries too in which they were
fostered, encouraged, and stood high with powerful Ignorance,
their spells and their wonders, their astrology and their
soothsaying, and all their loud pretensions are discredited,
have become blind and palsied, and weak and ineffectual. Is
there now some attempt to reanimate these dead delusions ?
Dry bones they are, and dry bones they will remain.
And now what word has Science for all the confident
announcements about elemental and elementary spirits, the
human Trinity, the astral cadaver, and the astral man,
and many such distinctions. Perhaps she might reply :
These things cannot be beyond my jurisdiction, but they have
not yet come before me. Evidence for them there is none.
They rest upon supposition and assertion only. I have seen
many wondrous and widely-accepted systems grow up and
fade away. Such were the cycles and epicycles, orbs in orbs
of the old astronomy. Touched by my verified methods and
calculations these fell to pieces. When the time comes for
April 19, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST
189
these other speculations to pass before me and be examined ! j
by the touchstones I shall then possess, my judgment shall If j
be declared. So too, of these manifestations \ of abnormal | |
powers, of the seeming suspension of gravitation and of the | j
solidity of matter of materialised forms and spiritual beings, { j
when I can lay my hand upon them and submit them to j j j
my tests, I shall know what verdict to pronounce. So far j j
as they are cognisable by the senses they must sooner or j j
later obey my authority. Of modes of existence in which the | j
senses, and the time and space necessary for their evolution j j
and perception, are absent, I can say nothing either of j j
assertion or denial; yet should there be any such existence I j j
shall be surely there in another guise and with other pro- j j
cesses; my scales and balances, my lenses and crucibles, my j |
calculations and analysis may be left behind with the senses, j j
and what the senses felt and were sustained by—substance or j j
matter—but I shall be there to choose, distinguish, and judge. I i
Now, nothing that is seen by eyes, or heard by ears, or con- i
ceived by thought can pass beyond my dominion. To me i
shall Spiritualism with all its manifestations and occultisms j j
also ultimately yield and be laid open. j
Some have been wont to vaunt Spiritualism as a new I j
gospel of great joy, on the ground of the assurance it tends i j
to convey of a life beyond, and reunion with those who have j j
gone before, but if one considers what sort of further life j
seems to be intimated by the bulk of the stories and instances j
adduced, some may be inclined to hold with Huxley that it i
rather adds a new terror to\death. Taking as an instance j
along with scores of similar accounts, the Persistent Appari- !
tion, described in The Spiritualist of March 22nd, can any i
existence be imagined more dreary and dismal? A spirit still j
possessed with all the cares and passions of life! and the j j
whole record of Spiritualism goes rather to confirm the j
popular notion of “wandering spirits,” and a restless pining j I
existence, as mean and paltry as on earth. Were not blank
annihilation better than this ? I j
Only the sleep eternal, ! i
In an eternal night.”
Rather, some may think, consolation may be found in the j
inspiring words of one of the foremost spirits of our days,
divine, poet, novelist, naturalist, not a Spiritualist, but fer- i
vently believing in reunion with the loved, hereafter, holding j
also that there was a life to come even for the lower animals,
a scholar well versed in all platonic love, nor ignorant of j
old magic astrology and the secrets of the Kabala. These
are his words, 11 Death is no death if it kills no part of us
save that which hindered us from perfect life. Death is j
not death if it raises ns from darkness into light, from ||
weakness into strength, from sinfulness into holiness. Death j
is not death if it brings us nearer to Christ, who is the fount !
of life. Death is not death if it gives us to those whom we |
have loved and lost, for whom we have lived, for whom we j
long to live again. Death is not death if it rids us of doubt !
and fear, of chance and change, of space and time, and all I
which space and time bring forth, and then destroy. And to j
those who say 1 you were born in time, and in time you must 11
die, as all other creatures do. Time is your king and lord, jf
as he has been of all the old worlds before this, and of all |
the races of beasts whose bones and shells lie fossil in the j
rocks of a thousand generations,’ then we can answer them j
in the words of the wise poet, and in the name of Christ |
who conquered death :— j
“FJy, envious Time, till thou run out thy race,
And glut thyself with what thy womb devours, I
Which is no more than what is false and vain j
And merely mortal dross, ! j
So little is our loss, so little is thy gain. j
For when as each bad thing thou hast entombed,
And, last of all, thy greedy self consumed, 11
Then long eternity shall greet our bliss j |
With an individual kiss, ' i j
And joy shall overtake us as a flood, |j
When everything that is sincerely good ||
And perfectly divine, j j
And truth, and peace, and love shall ever shine ij
About the supreme throne* J I j
Of Him, unto whose happy-making sight alone, ||
When once our heavenly-guided soul shall climb, j
Then all this earthly grossness quit, ||
Attired with stars we shall for ever sit, j)
Triumphing over death, and chance, and thee, 0 Time ! ” * i
 M. J. W. I
* From “ The Victory of Life," a sermon preached at the Chapel Royal, by Charles 1'
Kingsley.
Correspondence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned;
copies should he kept hy the writers.]
A SUGGESTED EXPERIMENT.
Sir,—There appears to be one test, or proof, of Spiritual power which
would be above all others unanswerable by unbelievers; and, being
portable and permanent, would be of great service.
Could not two rings of different woods be passed one within the other
by the Spiritual powers ? For instance, could not a ring of ebony and
another of boxwood be interlinked as if they were two welded links of an
iron chain?
Such a feat does not appear to be more contrary to physical laws than
the tying of knots on an endless cord so lately accomplished. Two or
more such rings thus interlinked would necessarily carry about with
them their own proof, and would not require human testimony, as do
Professor Zollner’s knotted cords.
The rings might be sent for examination to every scientific society in
the world.
I presume it would be impossible to open and reunite two wooden
rings without leaving some mark indicating the joint, if submitted to
proper tests and microscopic examination. This being so, the value of
such evidence, amounting to demonstration, would be very great; and,
indeed, having due regard to its portability and permanence, I think it
would surpass all other evidence in its conclusiveness.
But it seems such an obvious experiment that I suspect it must have
been tried ere this, and if so, it would be highly interesting to know why
the test failed, and under what circumstances, when, and by whom the
trial was made.
It by no means follows that because the attempt failed some time ago
it would do so now, having regard to the continuous development of
Spiritual phenomena.
Though long time a careful student of Spiritual literature, and an
observer of many Spiritual phenomena, I do not recollect having met
with anything directly bearing on the above; but probably others of
your readers can throw some light on it.
I have some other suggestions to make on this deeply-interesting
subject, but, not being particularly connected with the foregoing, I will,
with your permission, address you on another occasion.
E. T. Wakefield.
Hanover Lodge, Harrow-on-the-Hill.
TYING KNOTS IN AN ENDLESS CORD.
Sir,—I am sorry to learn that my account of the repetition in
London of the great Leipzig experiment of tying knots in a cord whose
ends were firmly sealed together, was not so accurate as should have
been the record of so astounding a phenomenon.
Permit me to say, therefore, that, after reading the account by
Professor Zollner in the Daily Telegraph, I asked, at the first oppor¬
tunity, our spirit friend, “ Joey,” if he could do the same thing here.
He said, “We will try.”
I then cut four yards of common brown twine—such as I use for
large book packets—from a fresh ball, examined it carefully, tied the
two ends together by a single knot, which included both, then passed
each end through a hole in ray visiting card, tied a square knot, and
firmly sealed this knot to the card, and asked a gentleman to seal it
with his seal ring. On this card I also put my signature and the
date. The loop of the string, whose two ends were thus sealed on the
card, I again examined, and found it free from knots. .
Six persons, including Mr. Eglinton and Mr. Colman, sat round a
small table. The sealed card was placed on the centre of the table,
and the fingers of each person present placed upon it, while the loop
hung down upon the floor.
This position was maintained for about a minute, when raps were
heard, and I examined the string. The ends were firmly fastened
and sealed as before, and five single knots were tied upon it, about a
foot apart—on the single endless string, observe, whose perfect
fastening had never left my sight—where they now remain.
It is certain that no mortal man could have tied these knots-r-
equally certain that all the philosophers and all the “magicians” of
Europe cannot now untie them under the same conditions.
Here is a fact which can be proven in any court of justice, and for
which any conceivable number of dimensions of space cannot account.
T. L. Nichols, M.D.
32, Fopstone-road, London, S.W.
“ ISIS UNVEILED ” AND THE TODAS.
Sir,—The critic of Isis Unveiled should bear in mind the old
Scotch motto, “Touch not the thistle but with a glove.” Wary must
he be in attack, and a master of fence, for he has to deal with an
opponent swift in action and ready with a shower of shrewd strokes.
Let me, however, at once acknowledge that I was too brusque in my
remarks. It is enough to understand that the authoress of Isis Unveiled
is a lady of venerable age, and of remarkable and various knowledge and
literary power, to make me hasten to offer the amende honorable for
expressions that may have given oft’ence. I must, however, submit with
deference that she is too precipitate in assuming that her personal
veracity was questioned so blankly as she puts it. My observations
might have been more guarded, but there are passages in her work
which make an old Indian marvel; however, I grant at once that India
is wide, and truth often stranger than fiction. I. was spurred to write
what I did by the nonsense emanating from the “BrahmanGuru,”
which I regret to observe the lady continues to support. I understood
the account of the Todas to come, not from her own observation, but
from a report made to her by the Guru, and, as I feel in no wise bound to
190
THE SPIRITUALIST. April 19, 1878.
keep measure with him, I must repeat, plainly and decisively, that he
humbugged and misled the authoress.
In the first place, no “Guru of the Brahmans” has ever seen the
Todas. They never leave their hills, and no Guru ever goes up there.
To all Brahmans the hills are hateful and appalling; they cannot
follow their observances respecting caste, food, and worship up there,
and a sojourn on them is a severe and grievous trial. A Brahman
official has occasionally very reluctantly gone up with the collector’s
establishment for the yearly settlement, but no Brahman not so obliged,
no free Brahman of note or sanctity, certainly no Guru.
During the last forty years the hills have become better known to the
people of the plains below, and the agricultural, labouring, and trading
classes have resorted there in large numbers to the markets, and for the
employment afforded by the fast increasing European residents. The
striking stature and personal appearance of the Todas, and their peculiar |
ways and customs, have hence become talked of in the district below, j
and exaggerated and foolish stories respecting them have spread far and j
wide. I think it probable enough, some Brahman pretender may have
retailed such to the authoress of Isis Unveiled, for the accounts, as given j
by her, exhibit just the absurdities of popular gossip, every one of which i
the eyes of the informant would have set him right on had he seep the
Todas himself; e.g., he is the authority for asserting that Toda women
and Toda children are never seen, whereas, I, and all residents on the j
Nilgeris, have seen them by scores. Again, he asserts that they do not
practise polyandry, whereas it is just as notorious and certain as j
polygamy in Salt Lake City ; in fact, not to be tedious, I again assert,
with Dr. Backie, that every statement made on the authority of the
Guru is wholly inaccurate.
Neither will I admit that there is any secret which Lieut.-Colonel j
Marshall, Mr. Metz, Captains Harkness, Congreve, Ochterlony, j
and, I will add, myself, have not penetrated. We know all about
and all beyond the dirty huts, mnnds, and temples of the aborigines—all |
about their customs, ceremonies, and worship, and affirm that there are
no mystical secrets hidden behind ; we testify that which we have seen !
and know, and when the authoress, who has not seen, cleaves to her
Brahman, reaffirms his nonsense to be true, and refuses to retract a |
word, I can only lament it. The very notion of Mr. Metz, whom I
knew well, being mistaken about the Todas, and this Guru right, is to
all who have personal knowledge of the Nilgeris, their inhabitants, and
Mr. Metz, so absurd as to be beneath reply; and I cannot but add that
for any one who has no such personal knowledge, to term a book, care- j
fully and laboriously written by one who had, “full of misconceptions,” ! i
argues, a strange amount of confidence. Captain O’Grady’s letter, com- 11
municated by Col. Olcott, gives a fair general account of the Todas’ I!
habits, and certainly does not support the Guru. j |
In the lady’s letter in The Spiritualist of the 12th, there seems I i
rather a disposition to shift ground. It seems to be there hinted that I
the real Todas have moved away to unknown and inaccessible regions, |
and that those now to be seen on the Nilgiris are not the real mystical |
breed. And now I come to a point that puzzles me. Heretofore the j S
authoress seemed to make no profession of having seen the Todas herself, | j
but relied on the accounts of the Guru; but now she speaks as from j (
personal knowledge, and writes, “Neither Captain O’Grady nor I j>
recognised the individuals photographed in Colonel Marshall’s book as j /
Todas. Those we saw wore their dark brown hair very long, and were j (
much fairer than the Badagas, or any other Hindus.” Where did the j;
lady see these people with long brown hair, and fairer than any Hindus ? I (
There are none such on the Nilgiris, where the Todas are certainly those | (
photographed in Colonel Marshall’s book, and there are no other, i |
Neither is there any unknown or inaccessible spot to which this j j
mythical fair race can have betaken themselves. The Nilgiri hills are a ! (
triangular-shaped mountain mass, islanded amidst fertile plains, having j j
the districts of Coimbatore and Malabar on their east, south, and west, j
and Mysore on the north, and their sides descend precipitously all round, j (
They link on to no other mountain chain. The whole of their area has 11
been surveyed and mapped out, and is thoroughly well known. There | j
are no hollows, valleys, or recesses in which a tribe can be concealed. | (
Too many, indeed, during the last five and twenty years have been j 1
invaded and laid bare by the ruthless coffee-planter, for where forest ! (
grows deepest coffee will flourish finest; but the forest must first be |
cleared. Many a fine sweep of forest, many a lovely wooded valley, have ! ?
I seen denuded ; and such has been the rage for coffee-chinchona, and j (•
latterly tea-planting, that the authoress may be assured there is no nook i
leftjunsearched. Every corner of the hills has been thoroughly explored, |
and there is no white Toda race on them, and no other Todas but those | j
who have all been numbered, and all whose munds or villages are !}
perfectly well known. The mountains nearest the Nilgiris are also well i
known, and there is no Toda race, white or brown, on any of them. It i
should be remembered that this part of India is not like the Himalayan j)
regions, a vast, scarcely known, impenetrable country, containing valleys j (
in which white races, like the mysterious Siaposh, may be concealed, j (
We have heard of the shining city inhabited by a wonderful white |
people, the towers and domes of which are sometimes caught sight of far j (
in the folds of the Cordilleras; and Mr. Stanley has just brought home j
authentic news of a white tribe even in Central Africa; but southern India ! {
is a limited, surveyed and mapped out tract, only 400 miles across from i (
the Madras to the Malabar coasts, and within this every village, moun- j )
tain, hill, river, and brook is laid down, and all the jungles and | [
forests perfectly known. Nowhere is there any untrodden nook or j (
hiding-place where a mysterious white tribe could be hidden. Also j (
when I first knew the Nilgiri Hills in 1843, I talked much with an old i j
surveyor, Mr. Macmahon, then living, who had gone up there with the | (
earliest European explorers, and surveyed much of the hills before a 11
single European house had been built on them, and he found the Todas j (
just as they are now. Neither from the early settlers have I ever j \
heard of any white Todas, nor have the Badagas, who have been on the I {
hills for four centuries, any tradition of such. I must here also note ‘ '
that though I believe I have seen almost all the Todas on the Hills at
one or other of their great gatherings, I never did see any so light-
coloured as the five or six described by Captain O'Grady. “ Light ” is
a vague term of colour, but is very applicable to the high-caste Namburi
Brahmans of the Western Coast, many of whom are almost as fair as
English people, though never of the true clear northern whiteness. I
never saw any Todas so light-coloured as the Namburis; they are of a
reddish-brown, through which the colour can often be seen flushing on
the cheeks, and are never black like the low-caste people of the plains.
I wish Captain O’Grady had mentioned where on the Hills, and in what
circumstances he saw the five or six colourless Todas, neither fair nor
ruddy, but lighter than even Namburi Brahmans, whom he describes.
He was more fortunate than very many whose personal acquaintance
with them has been neither limited nor short.
As for their splendid goparams, unknown to Europeans, if they are
to dwindle down into the little rude, round temples, with high-peaked
thatch-roof, into which Colonel Marshall, and I too, have crawled,
there’s no more to be said, for there are no other Toda temples on the
hills. In Tieck’s story, The Elves, and in the popular stories of many
countries, we read how dark, rough, forbidding valleys, groves, or hills,
dreaded and avoided by the country people, and bearing the worst
repute, when entered at the right season by a favoured wanderer, were
disclosed to be radiant and beautiful fairy-lands, the dwelling of lovely
beings. So it may be here. These mud-built, squalid huts and hut-
temples, these red-brown, ignorant, idle, lounging Todas, may be so only
in outward seeming, and to the favoured eye may be revealed as splendid
temples, and a white, wondrous race, gifted with occult and mystic
powers and knowledge. But I am not one of the gifted, my eyes have
not been unveiled, and to me the Todas are the red-brown, dirty, stupid,
ignorant race of inveterate loafers, known so to multitudes like myself.
One word as to goparams. Yes. I have been into and to the top
of numbers—the vast towers of the great cathedral-temples of
Chellumbrum, Combaconum, and Madura, as well as of the smaller
i village-temples. They are u the pyramidal gateways ” by which
| temples, or rather the temple enclosures, are entered, and are perfectly
analogous to the towers of churches. They contain neither shrine nor
idol, and are the common resting-place and resort of all classes who may
not enter the temple itself. The word is not used by the people as
synonymous with temple, any more than steeple is used as synonymous
with church: it is Sanscrit, having no sort of connection with Hin¬
dustani, and does not appear to have any connection with the term
for a cow, and certainly not with any term denoting roundness, for the
excellent reason that Hindu towers or gateways are never round.
Moreover, the goparam is not sacred; it signifies a city gateway just
as much as a temple gateway, and the former is its primary mean¬
ing. The authoress of Isis Unveiled must be familiar with goparams,
and know all this. At any rate, she will find all about Hindu Temples,
and Gurus too, in the Abb6 Dubois’s book on the People of India, with
which she is acquainted.
I am sorry to have had to differ so widely from a lady of such rare
learning and attainments, but have only ventured to do so on points
on which I had long and intimate personal experience.
  Late Madras C. S.
THE WAIL FROM THE STATUE OF MEMNON.
Sm,—It has been truly said that the prosperity of a joke depends on
the hearer as well as on the utterer. Please to inform Mrs. Showers
that the “ singing in the ears ” of the French savans was a joke of mine,
with no other than an Irish foundation:—“ Pat, what are the bells
ringing for this morning ?” “ Faith, thin, it’s only a singing I’ve got in
my ears.” Gerald Massey.
LITERARY ACCURACY.
Sir,—That Madame Blavatskyhas not exaggerated in her description
of the fishing alligator pools in India I can, from personal observation,
testify. I was a resident of that country for several years, and employed
in Government service. During my periodical furloughs I travelled
over a wide extent of territory, and saw such pools; and on one
occasion, whilst sketching on the shore, I had a very narrow escape of
being seized by one of the largest crocodiles I ever saw. I had not the
pleasure of knowing Madame Blavatsky whilst in India, but, having
met her here, I can safely assert that her conversation evinces an inti¬
mate knowledge of that country, its peoples and religions.
Walter Paris
(Late Architect to the Government, Bombay Presidency),
No. 1, Union-square, New York,
March 19th, 1878.  
spiritualism at st. Andrew’s church.
Sir,—The second of Dr. Maurice Davies’ series of Spiritualistic
sermons was delivered on Sunday morning last. The title was Christian
Positivism, and the rev. preacher eloquently pointed out the extreme
value of the modern psychical phenomena in placing religion on a
scientific basis. The time for authority in matters of faith was over;
men now demanded objective proof of doctrine, and such proof modern
Spiritualism professed to furnish. The inductive method was now as
applicable to theological science as any other.
Full as was the church on occasion of Dr. Davies’ first sermon, it was
yet fuller on the second. The subject is evidently one that awakens
intense interest, and the masterly way in which Dr. Davies deals with
it will scarcely allow that interest to flag. After the sermon was a
procession round the church, in honour of Palm Sunday, in which
Dr. Davies took part.
As an illustration of the unsectarian and truly liberal character of
Spiritualism, the simultaneous preaching of its doctrines in such anti-
podial buildings as, say, St. Andrew’s Church and Doughty Hall, is
not without a special interest and signification. Louisa Lowe.
April 19, 1818.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
191
HAKRIET MARTINEAU.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OF “ LETTERS TO MISS MARTINEAU.,?
Mr. Epes Sargent speaks of seeing a likeness of Miss
Martineau in her old age, but there is no suchlikeness. If he
refers to the Autobiography he will find in Yol. I. a likeness
taken in 1883, a year beforeMr. Sargent met Miss Martineau,
and in Yol. II., a portrait by Richmond, taken in 1850. He may
refresh his memory by there comparing the difference, but
in 1850 Miss Martineau was not in old age, but only forty-
eight ; she was only thirty-two when he met her forty-four
years ago. She lived till 1876, and died at the age of seventy-
four. Mr. Sargent’s quotations are from our letters—Letter
XIX.—not from the Autobiography, which he does not seem
to have read. I did not know Miss Martineau until 1845,
after her cure of the six years’ illness at Tynemouth, by
mesmerism, under my directions, and we continued intimate
friends and correspondents to the last, for above thirty years.
I have a thousand of her letters, and should know something
about her character, and do not agree with Mr. Sargent. I
dare say Mr.-Harrison is right enough in what he means,
but what he says would apply to nine out of ten
of - the great writers. There is true- greatness in so
many ways and qualities. Newton was no poet;
Pope was no astronomer like Omar the “ astronomer
poet” of Persia; and we must not think less of Aristotle,
because he was not poet as well as philosopher like
Lucretius. Miss Martineau possessed great power and
high abilities in a great variety of directions, and her supreme
common sense and realism prevented her from being tran¬
scendental. She,did not arrogate to herself qualities she did
not possess, as we see in her account of herself, published
in the Daily News, and again in Mrs. Chapman’s volume.
u Show me the man who can divide and define,” said Plato,
u and I will place him among the Gods.” Then let us not
speak disrespectfully of the oak because it has not all the
beauty of the rose. She was egotistical, no doubt, but it
seemed more that it was the constant working of her brain
with the idea of instructing; this, no doubt, caused an
indwelling and self-surrounding, whilst her deafness caused
her to be a talker more than a listener, but I never knew
any one with broader sympathies. She had at least one
Stamp of greatness—the manly character, without loss of
any of the womanly nature. But enough. More I shall
have to say elsewhere.
Boulogne-sur-mer.
AMERICAN NOTES.
From a letter from Mr. Epes Sargent, under date of
Boston, March 29th, 1878, we quote the following:—c( There
is no surer index of the activity in Spiritualism than the
exposure of frauds, as the proportion generally keeps pace
with the increase of the demand for genuine phenomena.
There have been several cases of late where genuine mediums,
made desperate by impecuniosity, or discouraged by the
existence of a supply in excess of the demand, have turned
“exposers,” and repudiated their mediumship.- In all
instances the poor fellows have been utterly powerless to
throw the least light on such phenomena as were unmis¬
takably genuine. Such has been the fate of a man named
Huntoon, in Chicago. Choate, the supposed “ flower
medium,” has also turned exposer. Mr. Newton, of New
York, a well-known Spiritualist, who tested Choate in his
family several times, still believes in the genuineness of the
floral manifestations through him. But the young man
grew desperate, professed to have experienced a change of
heart and been Christianised, and he is now making the
circuit of the small towns as an exposer. He is, of course,
wholly untrustworthy; but I shall wait for further develop¬
ments before making up my mind definitely as to the reality of
his medial powers. He says that Dr. Peebles knows about him.
“ I had a call last Saturday'from Mrs. Robert Dale Owen,
who, in company with Mrs. Dora Brigham, had been to see
Mrs. Thayer, the celebrated flower medium. Mrs. Owen
had silently wished that a rose and pink might be placed
before her, and when the gas was put up there they were,
with a forget-me-not twined around their stems. A gentle¬
man of her party who had silently wished for a bird found a
beautiful little linnet standing on the back of his chair. On
another occasion, in Mrs. Thayer’s presence, Mrs. Owen,
I while singing a song which she had by request sung to her
| husband in his dying moments, heard a whole shower of
| flowers fall on the table before her. Orange blossoms, fresh
| and cold; large, magnificent lilies, roses, pinks, heliotropes,
j and a great variety of other flowers, all in a remarkably
| fresh and perfect state, were found before her when the gas
| was lighted. She is of opinion that there was no possibility
| of fraud. The profusion of the flowers, their strong odour
| (which would have been perceived if they had been con-
| cealed), and the fact that the medium had given satisfactory
proof before the sitting that there were no flowers about her
| person, all concurred to convince Mrs. Owen of the genuine-
! ness of the phenomenon. Mrs. Thayer has been noted for
| some fifteen years for these floral phenomena, and no proofs
| of fraud have, as far as I can learn, ever been substantiated
| against her.”
DR. SLADE’S RECENT VISIT TO BERLIN.
Madame Blavatsky, of New York, in the course of a recent letter to
The Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.), says :—
| The St. Petersburg News reports an interesting episode of Slade’s
| experience at Berlin, which is of quite a political and religious character.
! “ Allie ” and “ Owasso ” were the indirect (or shall we say direct ?)
means of disturbing Prince Bismarck’s equanimity, and even getting him
into trouble. I will give the story as nearly in the language of the
paper as the necessity for condensation permits. In Berlin there are
j more “ Spiritists than in St. Petersburg, and no wonder, as the arrival of
I Slade, who is considered the greatest medium after Home (?), stirred up
the liveliest interest. As usual, parties were formed for and against
j Slade. The opponents of Spiritism felt indignant, and—again as
| usual—began exposing him. Hermann, the well-known Berlin juggler,
| promised through the press to show the public how it was all done.
Another Berlin iuggler, Bellachini, still more famous than Hermann,
then stepped in and began investigating, with the determination “ to
j expose the fraud.” The inquiry of the latter was quite protracted, after
| which he published in the daily papers, over his own signature, the fact
j that the phenomena which take place in Slade’s presence can by no
means be included among the tricks of jugglery. The*reader may well
I imagine the scandal which this confession created. Bellachini was
| abused from every side, and charged with having been “fooled” by a
| Yankee, who could not even speak German. •
The fight raged fiercely, passions were excited, and finally the affair
was transplanted into the domain of politics. It must be known that
| the defenders of Dr. Slade and Spiritualism had found hospitality in
the columns of the clerical party, while their opponents bombarded them
II from within the stronghold of the national liberal press. Prince Bis-
11 marck, who was quietly resting at Varzin, and felt quite innocent of any
\ \ leading toward mediumism, was dragged into the fight and had to pay
i j the damages. The clerical party pestered the great Chancellor by
reviving a long-forgotten story. Thus the matter assumed a political
character, and was carried into the Landtag. The clergy had profited
by the appearance of the new and incontestably genuine phenomena to
claim recognition for their old miracle for the appearance of the
j Virgin Mary in the Marningen community. It appears that the
devout believers in this “ miracle ’’ had come in crowds to pray at
the spot where the apparition had been seen, and had been badly
treated by the local police. The old complaints were now revived.
Minister Friedentahl, in the Landtag, defending the police, pronounced
| both the clerical ‘‘miracle” and the medial phenomena dangerous
| frauds. The clericalist deputy Bohsm demanded the punishment of
| the police and damages for the insulted community. Windsgorsf.
] the well-known orator of the church party, claimed recognition for
both miracle and phenomena, pointing out that even such men as
Shopenhauer, Fichte, and others did not deny their possibility. The
| fight was lively for a time. Bismarck was annoyed and the public
| scandalised by this clerical impudence which was provoked by Dr.
Slade’s spirits.
i The Progress of Spiritualism.—That the progress of Spiritualism
is admitted by those who dislike it is evidenced by the following para¬
graph from the Swedenborgian newspaper, The Morning Light, of April
6th: “The orthodox view of hell and its punishment has a third
enemy, less intelligent, less powerful at present than either of those
mentioned, but more widely diffused, more rapid in its progress,
terrible in its very vagueness, and the unforeseeable possibilities of its
future, viz., Spiritualism. However rudely we may scoff, from scien¬
tific and rationalistic standpoints, at the pretensions of this new
| power, it is a simple fact that some millions of people in the United
i States, of average intelligence and respectability, do this day believe
| that they have seen, heard, or in some manner received intelligible
j communications from their friends or others lately deceased. And the
! uniform burden of these communications is, that in the life to come
| there is no such judgment, no such punishment, no such hell as they
had been taught to expect in this. However flimsy, absurd, and un-
| tenable the grounds of this faith may be, it is the living faith of
millions, and has, no doubt, contributed to weaken the hold of the old
I theology on the popular mind, and to bias many of the clergy towards
' | a more spiritual interpretation of Scripture. It works unseen, and is
II far more powerful than any one imagines. A distinguished clergyman
of New York gave it as his opinion, that if the Spiritualists in all the
] churches were excommunicated at once, it would disintegrate every
religious organisation in the city.
192 THE SPIRITUALIST. Apeil 19, 1878.
AN INDIAN COMEDY.
The March number of the Dublin University Magazine contains a
Comedy of Creation, an Indian poem, translated from the Spanish by |
Mariana Monteiro. The following is an abridgment of the narrative:—
The world is an animated absurdity, which rolls in space, in order
to astonish its inhabitants.
Do not seek its explanation in the Vedas, the testimony of the mad
ravings of our ancestors; nor in the Puranas, where, clothed in the
dazzling robes of poetry, a heap of absurdities is given concerning its i
origin.
Listen to the history of creation, as it was revealed to a pious Brah- j
min, after he had spent three months fasting and immovable, with his
forefingers raised towards the firmament, wrapped in self-contemplation.
Brahma is the centre of space; from him, and to him, all things
diverge and converge. He had no beginning, neither will he have ]
an end.
"When neither space nor time existed, the Maya, like a dim mist,
floated around him unperceived, for, absorbed in self-contemplation, he
had not yet fertilised it with his wishes.
As all things tend to weariness, Brahma at length became weary of !
self-contemplation, and he opened the eyes of one of his four faces, and
found himself face to face with himself. He angrily opened other eyes,
and beheld himself again, because he filled everything, and all things
were himself. j
The beautiful woman who, when burnishing steel, sees her reflection
upon the metal, takes delight in beholding herself; but after a little
time she seeks other eyes upon which to fix her gaze, and if she finds
them not she becomes dejected.
Brahma is not vain like woman, because he is perfect. Imagine,
then, how weary he must have felt when he found himself alone in the j
centre of immensity, and with four eyes to view himself.
Brahma, for the first time, had a wish, and this wish, having been I \
fertilised by Maya, made a million shoots of light to burst from his j i
brow, similar to the microscopic fiery atoms which float in a sunbeam |1
as it penetrates the tops of trees. j \
That golden dust filled space, and when the dust was agitated it 11
produced myriads of beings destined to chant hymns of glory to their j ]
creator. i (
The Gandharvas, or celestial singers, with their loveliest of counte- j (
nances, their wings of many hues, their ringing laughter, and their j j
childish sportiveness, drew from Brahma his first smile, and from that I
smile sprang Eden!—Yes, Eden, with its eight circles, the tortoises and j
the elephants that sustain it, and its sanctuary in the cusp.
Children have ever been the same, noisy, full of tricks, and incor- j)
rigible. At first they amuse, then they disturb us with their restless- j (
ness, and in the end they annoy. I j
Thus it was with Brahma when he left that great crowd of Gand- j j
harvas in the inferior circles. So he alighted from the gigantic swan : (
that, like a snow-horse, had carried him through heaven, and retired to I(
the farthest end of his sanctuary. In that spot where no echo reaches, I j
nor the slightest noise is heard, and where the mighty silence of j (
solitude reigns supreme, and its profound stillness invites to meditation, |1
here Brahma sought a solace from his eternal weariness by giving j (
himself up to the study of alchemy—after closing the door and double j (
locking it. ] j
The crowds of boys who meanwhile were filling the inferior circle of 11
paradise with their deafening voices, noticed the absence of their master, j (
“ Where can he be P” some of them cried out. “ What can he be n
doing P” said others, whilst the columns of dense black smoke which j)
rose like mighty spirals from the laboratory of Brahma served to [ (
increase their curiosity. Moved by inquisitiveness, they commenced to i )
climb up the legs of the elephants who sustain the circle of heaven; i )
proceeding from one step to another, they at length succeeded in j (
reaching the mysterious retreat, where Brahma still continued absorbed | )
in scientific speculations.. |)
Once in the cusp, some of the more daring grouped themselves around ! (
the door, and looked through the keyhole and the chinks between the i)
badly joined boards, and peered into that immense laboratory which I )
was the object of their curiosity. ! (
All about the place lay, strewed and tumbled together, vessels and j)
globes of all shapes, sizes, and colours. Skeletons of worlds, rudiments i)
of planets, and fragments of moons, were lying amongst half-modelled 1 (
forms of men, unfinished designs of monstrous animals, obscure parch- i \
ments, folio volumes, and strange instruments. The walls were covered !)
with geometrical figures, cabalistic signs, and magic rules ; in the centre j (
of the chamber a gigantic cauldron stood upon inextinguishable fire; in n
this cauldron thousands of nameless ingredients were boiling and hissing, j)
and from these learned combinations perfect creations were to come | (
forth. 11
The eight arms and sixteen hands of Brahma barely sufficed to cover j)
and uncover vessels, stir up liquids, and remove mixtures; yet at times 11
he would take up a great tube and dip it into the liquid, and would lean j)
over the abyss of heaven, and in the same way that children make I) |
bubbles by blowing soap-suds through dried straws, so would he blow j (|
through the tube, and fiery globes would appear on the other end, i \ \
which, on being cast off, commenced to revolve upon themselves, in i) I
concert with other globes which already floated in space. j j j
Brahma, weary of making experiments, left his laboratory, locked j) j
the door, put the key in his pocket, and once more mounted his swan, j / j
with the object of taking the air. But what must his mental abstrac- \ (|
tionhave been that he, who sees and knows everything, did not notice iji
in his preoccupation that he had indeed turned the key, but it had not i (j
caught the lock ? The restless crowd of boys, however, did notice | (I
this, and they remained perfectly still until he had gone some distance, j | j
and when they judged themselves alone, one of them pushed the door j) j
a little, another then put his head cautiously in, a third advanced ''1
>; further, until at length the whole troop invaded the laboratory, and
11 before very long they had made themselves quite at home there.
[ j Impossible to describe the scene which ensued. They commenced
i j to examine every object with the greatest amazement; then they dared
> j to touch them; and at last they commenced to turn everything topsy-
J | turvy. They threw rare parchments into the fire to feed the flames;
11 they uncovered globes, and broke some of them; they removed vessels
I ] and spilt their contents; and after smelling, tasting, and stirring
I everything, some of the boys began to climb up to the vaulted roof, and
i j to grasp and swing themselves from the unfinished stars and suns,
II which hung there in process of drying; whilst others would scramble
up the bones of gigantic animals, whose shapes had not pleased their
master. They tore leaves from books to make paper caps ; they rode
astride compasses as though they were horses, and they broke rods of
! mysterious virtues, and wounded themselves with their broken edges.
At last, tired of tumbling things about, they decided to make a world
such as they had seen done.
They mingled and mixed all the elements of good and §vil, of pain
( and joy, beauty and ugliness, abnegation and selfishness ; the germs of
j ice which had been destined for worlds whose inhabitants would
j rejoice in cold, with the germs of heat composed for globes where
| flames and heat would cause the greatest enjoymentand they inter-
i mixed the principle of divinity, the spirit, with gross materialism, the
i gold with clay, and formed into one beverage impotence and desires,
I greatness and littleness, life and death. All these elements, so contrary
one to the other, were raging at finding themselves together at the
bottom of the cauldron.
On concluding this performance, one of the Gandharvas plucked a
feather from his wings, bit the end with his teeth, and dipped it
I into the liquid; then he leaned over the unfathomable abyss, blew
through the quill, and a globe appeared.
A world it was, but monstrous, uncouth, darksome, depressed, and
turning on poles, with mountains of snow and burning, sandy plains ; in
its inmost bosom fire raged, and on its surface oceans of water; a world
| peopled by a humanity at once fragile and arrogant, with godly aspira-
| tions and weaknesses of clay; the principle of death destroying all that
exists, whilst the principles of life, with aspirations of eternity, recon¬
struct existence from the very spoils of death; there was formed an
inconsistent, absurd, inconceivable world—in one word, Our World.
- spiritualism; in dalston.
The ordinary monthly meeting of the Council of the Dalston Asso¬
ciation of Inquirers into Spiritualism was held on Thursday evening,
last week, at their premises, 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane, London,
OE.—Mrs. Comer, president, in the chair. Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr.
John Rouse, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, and Mrs. M. Theresa Wood were
also present. Letters of general interest were read from Rev. Samuel
Watson, of Memphis, U.S.A., Miss F. J. Theobald, Mr. J. W. Fletcher,
Mr. J. L. O’Sullivan, “M,A. (Oxon),” and Mr. D. Burgess, Cambridge,
Presentations were reported and accepted with a most cordial vote of
thanks from Rev. Samuel Watson and “ M.A. (Oxon).” Mr. Alfred
R. Benson, M.D., and Mr. J. Connor were elected to ordinary mem¬
bership. The cash accounts were submitted with the stock account,
certified by Messrs. R. Pearce and G. R. Tapp; the stock had an
estimated value of £78 12s. The April agenda was confirmed, and
the hon. secretary authorised to make suitable arrangements for the
conversazione, to be held on Monday evening, the 29th instant. An
offer by Mr. W. J. Colville, hon. member, to deliver an inspirational
discourse before the association, on Thursday evening, 2nd May next,
was accepted with thanks. The question of dealing with certain
surplus literature having been considered, it was resolved to dispose of
the same by auction amongst the members, of which due notice will
L be given them. The council then adjourned.
| . Dr. T. L. Nichols delivered an interesting narrative of Spiritual
experiences before the Dalston Association on Monday evening last—
Mr. R. A. March in the chair. In the course of his recital, Dr. Nichols
exhibited sundry writings and drawings obtained in his presence at his
own residence, through the mediumship of Mr. W. Eglinton, under
what were described as absolute test conditions. The repetition of
the now famous experiment of Prof. Zollner with Dr. Slade was de¬
scribed as obtained by Dr. Nichols, through Mr. Eglinton’s mediumship,
and the knotted cord was handed round for inspection. After some
appreciative remarks from various members, a cordial vote of thanks
to Dr. Nichols for his recital was proposed by Mr. G. R. Tapp,
seconded by Mr. R. Pearce, and carried unanimously.
Mr. Thos. Blyton, hon. secretary of the Dalston Association, 53,
Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane, invites volunteers to contribute vocal or
instrumental music, recitals, objects of interest to investigators into
psychological phenomena, or to give other aid, in connection with a con¬
versazione, to be held at the Association’s rooms on the 29th instant.
The reading-room of the National Association of Spiritualists will be
closed from Thursday, 18th, till Monday, 29th inst.
Mrs. Makdotjgall Gregory is overwhelmed by applications for
admission to her seances, and requests that no more letters of the kind
shall be sent her.
Subscriptions towards the testimonial to Dr. J. M. Peebles may be
remitted to Mr. Alexander Calder, 1, Hereford-square, South Ken¬
sington, London.
The following sums have been handed to Dr. J. M. Peebles, by the
president of the National Association of Spiritualists, as a contribution
to his testimonial, viz.:—Mr. A. Calder, £5; Mr. Makdougall Gregory,
£l; Mrs. Wiseman, £l; Mr. D. FitzGerald, £1; Mr. W. H.
Harrison, £1.
Apeil 19, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Q-reat Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
' who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. 6a.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. Is. Cd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee ol
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and lion-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spirituaiism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 15s.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals twere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and Vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the m;.diumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6<L: cheap edition,
7s. od.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book censists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiraui n-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. ed.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician.
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
*. d.
0
6
3 0
7 6
21 0
Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
mm „ . . . -I 0
m. „  le
iv. „ . ... 7 6
m „ v „ . . . • .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . • 7 6
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . . 3 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . • .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .6
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manuai
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .»
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology .
Morning Lectures . . . . .
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) .
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Tub Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beai) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
hy Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . ... . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Othee
Obseevees in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free In. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C,
Or of Messes. Colby and Rich, 9, Hontgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Peess.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to he
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion dow mon-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his, preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and ♦hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossibie.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Haerison, 38, Geeat Russell Steeet, London. W.O.
"EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
"ORIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
JL) tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
Price five shillings. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),” ON
PSYCHO GRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psycography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hcnsleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead.W. P.Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L.O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins) ;
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayeuis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—^Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Coilyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London: W. H. Harrison, 33, Great Eussell-street.
Price 5s^ Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful hook to place In public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-medlumship o f
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treheme)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me-
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Yay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci, Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow's Position In
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey—
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
30.0 fin' Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spirituaiism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its’ facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.''
THE SPIRITUALIST,
iv
April 19, 1878.
^ NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE' AND PRE-
MATTIBE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
T ORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
J-J day that “ the health of the people Is really the foundation
upon which ail their happiness and power as a State depend.”
Tor the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each -bottle of
I NO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable; As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. -There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been - found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EYERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
|.TNO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
-IL “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
. morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
F?NO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
ll “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
gNO’S FRUIT SALT,
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIO
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from whichit is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
n which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise. .  
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent torm.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus ot itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease: 
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
toalimy friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please —I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
/CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless mutation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder,
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
S cU Agent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE HERAT,, i RUE DE
LA PAIX,
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BT WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part. 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of fhe Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man —6.. The Poetry, of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman, who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. Ho.w to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the 51 other in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the’Mace-Bearers.—
20; A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press,
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book, in a
review’ nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly- becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid, to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. . ..
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched In “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.. .. Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
ft Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and revievved by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The, Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be plfotographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd hut most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
« Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The Brit ish Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier. .
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays.-Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents..!. The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.”
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate Idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
^From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays,
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, hut
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of Us
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter,
being a series of papers entitled The wobblejaw Ballads, which
appej.’ed in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
an 5 .vhich created such a furore at the time.” [A./f.pl/i
member of the Town Council officially called the attention,of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques irrlhe
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at 'the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems <
and prose essays, isoound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
“VV. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, \Y.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
l the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had hound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
1—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
’ Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State ot Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peeuliar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—^Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—CoL Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S >iritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Ciystals. etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiologicai, Therapeutical, etc —Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, IVitchcratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Suliiepta—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etcl, Induoe
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception 'qf
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerhm in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIVDirect Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance-Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance —Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russeli-street, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parisda of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, Iiondon. and published by E. W. Allen, A\e
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
