Registered as a Newspaper.
©tot itospp* ramjets toit| Spritintlrsm In (&m\ §ritam.
NO. 366. (VOL. XY.—No. 9.) LONDON: FRIDAY, AUGUST 29, 1879. Published Weekly ; Price Twopence.
SANITAS, the Health Giver;
Or, the Pine Forest at Rome.
SANITAS IS SOLD IN FLUID, POWDER AND SOAPS.
SANITAS FLUID, Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d. in Bottles. By tlie Gallon at 20s., and 5s. It is the best fluid disinfectant, preventative of
contagion, and preservative of Meat, Fish, &c. Applied to the Bath, it improves the health by purifying the tissues and pores of the
skin, giving natural beauty and colour to the complexion.
SANITAS TOILET POWDER, in Is. Boxes is far superior to any of the so-called Yiolet Powders ; it is perfectly free from all
mineral and poisonous ingredients; improves the complexion, and softens the skin.
SANITAS TOILET SOAP is a beautiful transparent soap, containing a large percentage of Sanitas. It effectually softens and
improves the skin, and gives natural health and colour to the complexion.
SANITAS HOUSEHOLD SOAPS, sold in 6d. and Id. Bars, is excellently suited for cleaning and disinfection, whitens and
purifies linen goods.
TOILET SANITAS FLUID, in Is., and 2s. 6d. Bottles, is a beautifully perfumed Fluid, having all the properties of the ordinary
Sanitas in a more agreeable and fragrant form. Specially adapted as a mouth wash, and for spraying rooms, use in finger glasses, &c.
SANITAS DISINFECTING POWDER.
SANITAS TOOTH POWDER, and the several productions of the Company, to be had at the
Sanitas Oompaiiy’s
4, MILDMAY GROVE, HIGHBURY, LONDON, N,
CAUTION.—All Articles hear the Company's Trade Mark and Seal, without which none are genuine.
Chemists and the Trade Supplied.
Now Ready.
The THIRD EDITION of Vol. I. of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
MECHANISM OF MAN.
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism in Action,’
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LI&HTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qjiality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 29, 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Ghandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, IV.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of'man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
. ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritnalist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : its Place and Function
—Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Revelation—Christianity : its Place and Human Elements.
London: Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &c.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c.
Just Published.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
N.B.—Mr. Williams’s temporary address during
alterations in the above premises is 13, Milman-street,
W.O, (oorner of new Ormond-street).
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Sunday),
Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
street, every Sunday night.
MR, F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
 LONDON. 
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
104, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re*
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
lj Sandv Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MRS. A. KIMBALL,
SOMNAMBULIC MESMERIST AND MEDIUM,
Receives daily from 11 to 5 (except Sunday), at 20,
Montague-street, Russell square, London.
MRS. LOUIE M. LOWE, 23, Upper
Baker street, London. At homo from two till
five o’clock daily, except Sundays.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o'clock. 173
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
Kyt DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Magnetised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s, 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIRVOYANTE and HEALING MEDIUM
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair ; sex and
age required. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism,
Specialities. At home from 12 till 5 p.m. Patients
treated at their homes when desired. 99, Park-street.
Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Tjl OLKE STONE.—Comfortable Lodg-
JD ings on moderate terms. References to Spirit¬
ualists can he given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-
terrace, Folkestone.
Hackney spiritual evidence
SOCIETY, 6, Field-view-terrace, London-flelds,
E., near Blackstone-road Members’ s&artce, Mondays,
8 p.m. Private materialisation stance, Tuesdays, 8 p.m.
Miss Barnes, mesmeric sensitive, who obtains good
rappings, also, as conditions favour, lights, voices,
wriiing, and other psychical phenomena, gives experi¬
mental stances every Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
and Saturday, 8.15 p.m., Sixpence. Private stance
any time, prior arrangement, 5s. Mesmerism taught
personally or by letter, 5s. Sundays, C.30 p.m., Mes¬
meric Healing; 7, Devotional Meeting; 8, Stance.—Six¬
pence inclusive. C. R. WILLIAMS, Sec.
$ ixf ttf to awd lltWDS ff ipiiitoatism,
No. 366,—VOX.UJ4E, FIFTEEN ; NujVIBER JMIjHE,
L O 1ST D O TST s FRIDAY, All DUST 29th, 1879.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1809.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRIS ON.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Russia, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Right Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Yon Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.
G. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. O. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T, Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Robert s. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H-. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq.,author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Yon Dirckinok-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.R.S. '
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. 0. Luxmore, Esq, J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Soi., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Hartineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Royal,Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Rue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog. 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Russell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgoinery-plaoe, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophicgl
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia ; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
milE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MR. W. EGLINTON’S SEANCES IN BRUGES,
j
BY FLORENCE MARRYAT LEAN.
11 July 18th, 1879.
At last the dry bones in this world-renowned old
11 city have commenced to shake. A lady who is resi-
11 dent here, whilst on a visit to England last month,
i! invited Mr. Eglinton to pass a short time in Bruges
' | whenever it might be most convenient to himself, and
ij he crossed in the same boat with us yesterday (Wed-
!| nesday). His hostess met him at the station and
! took him direct to her house, whilst we came on to
'j the one from which I write, which is situated in
I another part of the town. Our first “conference”
jj as they call the seances here (and, I think, since the
>| latter term has fallen so much into disrepute, that it
jj would not be a bad idea to introduce the word
ii amongst our English Spiritualists), was held the
| same evening at the house of Mr. Eglinton’s hostess,
ij Mrs. M , where we imagined all our sittings
Jj would take place. Butin the course of it “Joey”
j informed us that on the following night we were to
Jj sit at the house of Mrs. B , the friend with
,j whom we are staying. I must premise that this
1 i house is so ancient that the date of its original build-
ij ing has been completely lost. A stone let into one of
jj its walls bears an inscription to the effect that it
)j was restored in the year 1616. And an obsolete
)i plan of the city shows it to have stood in its present
)j condition in 1562. Prior to that period, however, it
(j is supposed, with three houses on either side of it,
> j to have formed a convent; but no printed record
(j remains of the fact. Beneath it are subterranean
ji passages, now choked with rubbish, which lead no
(j one can tell whither. I have stayed in this house
j many times before, and have always felt strange and
)j unpleasant influences from it, especially in a large
)j room on the lower floor, now used as a drawing-room,
' j but which is said originally to have formed the
! chapel of the convent. Others have felt the influence
(j besides myself, but we have never had reason to
ij believe that there was any particular cause for it.
(j On the evening in question, however, when we ex-
i pressed curiosity to learn why “ Joey ” desired us to
<j hold our next “ conference ” in Mrs. B ’s house,
>j he told us that the medium had not been brought
(j over to Bruges for our pleasure, or even edification,
) j but that there was a great work to be done here, and
(j that Mrs. M  had been expressly influenced to
j j invite him over, that the purposes of a higher power
)j than his own should be accomplished. Consequently
jj on the following evening Mrs. M  brought Mr.
(j Eglinton over to our house, and “Joey,” having
jj been asked to choose the room for the “conference,”
I selected an entresol on the upper floor, which leads
jj by two short passages into the bedrooms. The bed
^ room door being locked, a curtain was hung at the
Aug. 29, 1879.
98
THE SPIRITUALIST.
entrance of one of these passages, and “Joey” I)
declared it was a first-rate cabinet. j,
We then all assembled in the drawing-room for j(
some conversation and music, for the time appointed |,
for the “conference” had not arrived. The party j(
consisted only of Mrs. B  and Mrs. M , the !
medium, my husband, and myself. After I had sung r
a few songs, Mr. Eglinton became restless, and moved |!
away from the piano, saying the influence was too H
strong for him. He began walking up and down the i)
room, and staring fixedly at the door, before which jj
hung a portiere. Several times he exclaimed j)
pointedly, “What is the matter with that door ?
There is something very peculiar about it !” Once j]
he approached it quickly ; Joey’s voice was heard <
from behind the portiere saying, “Don’t come too j)
near.” Mr. Eglinton then retreated to a sofa, and |<
appeared to be fighting violently with some unplea- j(
sant influence. He made the sign of the cross, n
then extended his fingers towards the door, as j)
though to exorcise it; finally he burst into a j|
scornful mocking peal of laughter that lasted for )
several minutes. As it concluded a diabolical ex- |(
pression came over his face. He clenched his hands, |)
gnashed his teeth, and commenced to grope in a <
crouching position towards the door. We concluded i)
he wished to go up to the “ conference ” room, and |<
let him have his way. He crawled more than ||
walked up the steep turret stairs, but on reaching j
the top came to himself suddenly and fell back n
several steps. Luckily my husband was just (
behind, and saved him from a fall. He com- j)
plained very much of the influence, and of a pain in j\
his head, and we went at once into the *c conference ” I)
room, and sat at the table. In a few seconds the j(
same spirit had taken possession of him. He left the !)
table and groped his way towards the bedrooms, (
listening apparently to every sound, and with his j)
hand holding an imaginary knife, which was raised j (
every now and then as though to strike. The j)
expression on Mr. Eglinton’s face during this pos- K
session is too horrible to describe. The worst |j
passions were written as legibly there as though they j(
had been labelled. There is a short flight of steps | j
leading from the entresol to the corridor, closed at j(
the head by a padded door, which we had locked for |j
fear of accident. When apparently in pursuit of his |(
object the spirit led Mr. Eglinton up to this door, j)
and he found it fastened; his moans were terrible. | <
Half a dozen times he made his weary round of the jj
rooms, striving to get downstairs to accomplish some !(
end, and had to return to us, moaning and baffled, jj
At this juncture the medium was so exhausted that !(
“Daisy ” took control of him, and talked with us for j
some time, during which we procured the writing on u
the arm. “ Daisy ” having taken off Mr. Eglinton’s ij
coat and bared his arm, asked me to write the (
name of the friend I loved best in the spirit- jj
world on a piece of paper. I left the table, and j(
not thinking the injunction of much import- j
ance, wrote the name of a dear friend now long
passed away, but who is much with me, and folded jj
the paper. The medium took it as I gave it, and |<
holding it in the flame of the candle burned it to jj
ashes, which he gathered and rubbed upon his (j
arm. In another minute there stood out in bold j
characters the words “Florence is dearest” and ' :
which I find was a gentle rebuke from my dead child
that I should have written any name but hers upon
the paper.
We asked “Daisy ” what the spirit was like that
had controlled her medium, and she said she did not
like him ; he had a very bad face, no hair on the top
of his head, and a long black frock. From this we
concluded he must have been a monk or a priest.
When “Daisy” had finished talking to us, “Joey”
desired Mr. Eglinton to go into the cabinet, but as
soon as he rose the spirit which had first controlled
him got possession again, and led him grovelling, as
before, towards the bedrooms. His own guides
therefore carried him into the cabinet before our
eyes. He was levitated far above our heads, his feet
touching each of us in turn ; he was then carried
past the unshaded window, which enabled us to
judge of the height he was from the ground, and
finally over a large table into the arm-chair in the
cabinet.
Nothing, however, of consequence occurred, and
after a few trials “ Joey ” told us he had been advised
to break up the sitting, and we were to take the
medium downstairs into the supper-room, which is
on the ground floor, divided by a marble corridor from
the drawing-room before mentioned.
We accordingly adjburned there, and during
supper Mr. Eglinton appeared to be quite him¬
self. As soon as the meal was over, however,
the old restlessness returned on him, and he
began pacing up and down the room, walking out
every now and then into. the corridor. In a few
minutes we perceived that the uneasy spirit had
again controlled him, and we followed him into the
corridor. He went steadily towards the drawing¬
room door, but on finding himself pursued turned
back three times and pronounced emphatically the
word “Go!” He then entered the drawing-room,
which was in darkness, and closed the door behind
him, whilst we waited outside. In a little while ho
reopened it, and speaking in quite a different voice,
said, “ Bring a light! I have something to say to
you !” When we reassembled we found Mr. Eglinton
controlled by a new spirit, whom “Joey” has since
told us, is one of his highest guides. Motioning
us to sit down, he stood before us and said, “ I have
been selected from amongst the controls of this
medium to tell you the history of the unhappy spirit
who has so disturbed you this evening. He
is present now, and the confession of his crime
through my lips will help him to throw off the earth-
bound condition to which it has condemned him.
Many years ago the house in which we stand was a
convent, and underneath it were four subterranean
passages, running north, south, east, and west, which
communicated with all parts of the town.”
(I should here state that Mr. Eglinton had not
previously been informed of any particulars relating to
the former history of this house, but that Mrs. B 
has told me since that, many years ago, some one
said in her hearing that, at one time, there were
four passages excavated beneath it.)
“In this convent there lived a most beautiful
woman—a nun; and in one of the neighbouring
monasteries a priest, who, against the strictest laws
of the Church, had conceived and nourished a passion
for her. He was an Italian, who had been obliged to
99
Aug. 29. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST.
leave his own country for reasons best known to
himself, and nightly he would steal his way to this
house by means of one of the subterranean passages,
and attempt to overcome the nun’s scruples and
make her listen to his tale of love ; but she, strong
in the faith, always resisted him. At last, one day
maddened by her repeated refusals and his own
guilty passion, he hid himself in one of the northern
rooms in the upper story of this house, and watched
there in the dusk for her to pass him on her way
from her devotions in the chapel, but she did not
come. Then he crept down stairs stealthily, with
a dagger hid beneath his robes, and met her in that
hall. He conjured her again to yield to him, but
again she resisted, and he stabbed her within the
door, on the very spot where the medium first per¬
ceived him. Her pure soul sought immediate conso¬
lation in the spirit spheres, but his has been chained
down ever since to the scene of his awful crime. He
dragged her body down the secret stairs (still
existent) to the vaults below, and hid it in the sub¬
terranean passage. After a few days he sought it
again, and buried it. He lived many years after, and
committed many other crimes, but none so foul as
this. It is his unhappy spirit which asks your
prayers to help it to progress. It is for this purpose
we were brought to this city that we might aid in
releasing the miserable soul that cannot rest.”
I asked, * ‘ By what name shall we pray for him ? ”
“ Pray for ‘ the distressed being.’ Call him by no
other name.”
“ What is your own name ?”
“ I prefer it to be unknown. May God bless you
all and keep you in the way of prayer and truth,
and from all evil courses, and bring you to everlast¬
ing life. Amen.”
The medium then walked up to the spot he had
indicated as the scene of the murder, and knelt there
for some minutes in prayer. If I have failed to
impress you with an idea of what a solemn scene this
was it is the fault of my pen, for it was the most
thrilling manifestation that any of us have ever
witnessed.
July 20th, Sunday.
In order that the medium might be rested we did
not hold a “conference ” yesterday ; but as we sat at
dinner together loud raps came on the back of his
chair, and on our calling the alphabet the name
“ Benedetta ” was rapped out. We concluded it must
have been the ‘ * distressed being ” who could not pro¬
nounce the sacred name. In the evening I sat alone
at the table with Mrs. B , where the name
“ Hortense Dupont” was given us, and the following
conversation ensued :—
“ Who are you ? ”
“I am the nun. I did love him. I couldn’t help
it. It is such a relief to think that he will be prayed
for.”
“ When did he murder you 1 ”
“In 1498.”
“What was his name ? ”
“I cannot tell you.”
“ His age ? ”
“Thirty-five.”
“ And yours 1 ”
“ Twenty-three.”
\| “ Are you coming to see us to-morrow ? ”
.jj “ I am not sure.”
This evening, by “Joey’s” orders, we assembled
| | at seven. Mr. Eglinton did not feel the influence in
I | the drawing-room to-day, but directly he entered the
“conference" room he was possessed by the same
K| spirit. His actions were still more graphic than
j)j on the first occasion. He watched from the
ju window for the coming of his victim through
|j! the courtyard, and then recommenced his crawl-
<| ing steathy pursuit, coming back each time
j j from the locked door that prevented his egress,
i( with such heartrending moans that no one could
have listened to him unmoved. At last his agony was
jU so great as he strove again and again, like some dumb
|)| animal, to pass through the walls which divided him
|\j from the spot he wished to visit, whilst the perspira-
|)j tionstreameddownthemedium’s face with the struggle,
i) l that we attempted to make him speak to us. We
Ijj implored him in French to tell us his trouble, and
| | believe us to be his friends, but he only pushed us
i>i away. At last we felt we must pray for him, and
j(j Mrs. B and Mrs. M , with myself, kneeled
jj| down and repeated all the well-known Catholic
j(j prayers. As we commenced the De Profundis the
m medium fell prostrate on the earth and seemed to
j(! wrestle with his agony. At the Salve Regina and
j) | Ave Maria he lifted his eyes to heaven and clasped
I (I his hands, and in the Paternoster he appeared to
;>! join. But directly we ceased praying the evil
|(j passions returned, and his face became distorted with
j>! the thirst for blood. It was an experience that no
jjl one who has seen could ever forget. At last I begged
iVi Mrs. B to fetch a crucifix, which we placed
Kj in his breast. It had not been there many seconds
!>j before a different expression came over his face, and
| (I he seized it in both hands, straining it to his
m eyes, lips, and heart—holding it from him at
in arm’s length, then passionately kissing it, as we
bj repeated the “ Anima Christi." Finally, he held the
j<| crucifix out for each one of us to kiss—a beautiful
bj smile broke out over the medium’s face, and the spirit
i\| passed out of him ! Mr. Eglinton awoke terribly
Hi exhausted. His face was as white as a sheet, and he
j(j trembled violently. His first words were, “They are
| | doing something to my forehead; burn a piece of
HI paper and give me the ashes.”
He rubbed them between his eyes, when the sign
;d of the cross became distinctly visible drawn deeply on
j'| his brow. The spirits then said that, exhausted as
bj he was, we were to place him in the cabinet, as their
| | work was not yet done. He was accordingly led to
bi the arin-chair behind the curtain, whilst we formed a
HI circle in front of him. In a few seconds the cabinet
i<| was illuminated, and a cross of fire appeared outside
||| of it.
This manifestation having been twice repeated, the
Hj face and shoulders of a nun appeared. Her white
|(i coif and chinpiece were pinned just as the religieuses
nj are in the habit of pinning them, and she seemed
ju very anxious to show herself, coming close to each of
! us in turn and reappearing more than once.
“Joey” said, “That’s the nun, but you’ll under-
i | stand that this is only a preliminary trial, preparatory
| | to a much more perfect materialisation.”
I asked her if she were the Hortense Dupont who
! 5 had communicated through me, and she nodded her
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 29, 1879.
100
head several times in acquiescence. She was sue- h
ceeded by a. very perfect materialisation that has ap- !?
peared before through Mr. Eglinton, although we |>
have not yet recognised it. It is the spirit of a j<
dark man, apparently an Indian, with a short black !>
beard and moustaches, who is said to have come for u
my husband, and to have been connected with him in j>
some way when on foreign service. He returned K
three or four times on this occasion, and made himself j >
distinctly visible to all, seeming to be anxious to be K
examined and recognised ; but we have not yet dis- |j
covered his name, and “Joey” can tell us nothing j)
about him. This ended the “conference" and I H
only mention it to show what powerful sittings we are | \
having here. During this evening a watch, which ji
had been missed the day before from Mrs. M ’s j)
hands, came floating from the ceiling down into her n
lap ; and we were touched at the same time by ma- k
terialised hands.
July 22nd, 1879. I?
There is a little band of Spiritualists at Ostend, )
who were very anxious to secure Mr. Eglinton’s K
services for their circle, and yesterday afternoon we j)
went by appointment to hold a “conference" with \(
them. It was a pelting wet day (for the deluge j)
is not entirely confined to England), and most j(
unfavourable weather for physical manifestations, j)
They had arranged their meeting to take place in the j)
room of an hotel, with three staring unshaded I)
windows. Added to which about twenty good people j(
had been invited, and under such circumstances it is !)
needless to add that it was found impossible to hold a K
sitting, and it was put off to another day, when they )
should be able to make a better preparation for the i)
medium. We came back together to Mrs. B ’s j)
house to supper at about ten o’clock. During the |\
meal loud raps were heard about the room, and on p
giving the alphabet “Joey” ordered us to go |\
upstairs and sit, and to have the door at the head of j)
the staircase (which we had hitherto locked for fear of j j
accident) open, which we accordingly did. (I had |)
remarked privately to Mrs. B  the day before \\
that I felt sure the spirit of the monk would not feel j)
satisfied until it had enacted the whole of the murder, I
which he had probably not confessed before his death ; j)
but I had not mentioned my surmises to Mr. jj|
Eglinton.) As soon as ever we were seated at the |)
table he became entranced, and the same pantomime, !)
which I have related, was gone through. He watched j)
from the window which looks into the courtyard, and
silently groped his way round the"room, until he had |>
crawled on his stomach up the stairs which lead to the j
padded door. When he found, however, that the obstacle |)
that had hitherto stood in his way was removed (by j<
its being open), he drew a long breath and started
away to the winding turret staircase, crouching at the <
doors he passed, in order to listen if he were over- j>
heard. When he came to the stairs—in descending U
which we had been so afraid (notwithstanding j
“Joey’s” assurances to the contrary) that he might P
hurt himself—he was levitated down them in the most j
wonderful manner, only placing his hands twice on j
ike balustrades, and being carried as in a flight to j;
the bottom without any noise of footsteps. We had <
placed a lamp in the hall, so that as we followed him jj
we could observe *all his actions. When he had |(
gained the bottom of the staircase he crawled on his '
stomach to the door of the drawing-room (originally
the chapel), and there waited and listened, darting
back into the shadows every time he fancied he heard
a sound. Imagine our little party of four in this
sombre old house, the only ones waking at that time
of night, watching by the ghostly light of a turned-
down lamp the acting of this terrible tragedy. Mr.
Eglinton’s face during the possession was a perfect
study, from which Irving might have taken a lesson ;
but it was so awful to think that there we actually
witnessed the revival of a crime that has held its
perpetrator in the continual bondage of sin for 400
years, that we had no thought for anything but the
solemnity of the scene. We held our breaths as the
murderer crouched by the chapel door, opening it
noiselessly to peep within, and then retreating with
the imaginary dagger in his hand, ready to strike as
soon as his victim appeared. At last she seemed to
come. In an instant he sprang towards her, stabbing
her once in a half-stooping attitude, and then,
apparently finding her not dead, he rose to his full
height, and stabbed her twice straight downwards.
For a moment he seemed paralysed at what he had
done, starting back with both hands clasped to his
forehead. Then he flung himself prostrate on
the supposed body, kissing the ground franti¬
cally in all directions. Presently he awoke to
the fears of detection, and raised the corpse
suddenly in his arms. He fell once beneath its
weight, but staggering up again he seized and dragged
it, slipping on the stone floor as he went to the head
of the staircase that leads to the “ cave ’ ’ below,
whence the mouth of one of the subterranean pas¬
sages is still to be seen. The door at the head of this
flight is modern, and he could not undo the lock, and
we, believing that if it were advisable for him to
descend his controls would open it, thought it best
not to interfere. Prevented in dragging the body
down the steps, he cast himself again upon it,
kissing the stone floor of the hall and moaning.
At last he dragged himself on his knees to
the spot of the murder, and commenced to pray.
We knelt with him, and as he heard our voices he
turned on his knees towards us with outstretched
hands. I said, “ He wants the crucifix again; I will
go upstairs and fetch it.” As soon as I left the hall
the medium rose and followed me. I found what I
wanted in the “conference" room, and returning,
met him at the head of the stairs. He seized-it
from me eagerly, and carrying it to the window
whence he had so often watched, fell down again
upon his knees. When he had prayed for some time
he tried to speak to us. His lips moved and his
tongue protruded, but he was unable to articulate.
Suddenly he seized each of our hands in turn in both
of his own, and wrung them violently. I fancy he
tried to bless us, but the words would not come.
The same beautiful smile we had seen the night
before broke over his countenance; the crucifix
dropped from his hands, and he fell prostrate on the
floor. The next moment Mr. Eglinton was asking
us where he was, and what on earth had happened
to him, as he felt so queer. He declared himself
fearfully exhausted, but said he felt that a great calm
and peace had come over him, notwithstanding the
weakness, and he believed some great good had been
accomplished. He was not again entranced, but “Joey”
Aug. 29, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
101
ordered the light to be put out and spoke to us in the
direct voice as follows“ I’ve just come to tell
you what I know you’ll all be very glad to hear, that
through the medium’s power, and our power, and the
great power of God, the unhappy spirit who has been
confessing his crime to you, is freed to-night from
the heaviest part of his burden—the being earth-
chained to this spot. I don’t mean to say that he’ll
go away at once to the spheres, because he’s got a lot
to do still to alter the conditions under which he
labours; but the worst is over. This is the special
work Mr. Eedinton was brought to Bruges to do ;
and Ernest and I can truly say that during the whole
course of our control of him we have never had to
put forth our own powers, nor to ask so earnestly for
the help of God, as in the last three days. You have
all helped in a good work—to free a poor soul from
earth, and to set him on the right road, and we are
grateful to you and to the medium as well as he. He
will be able to progress rapidly now until he reaches
his proper sphere, and hereafter the spirits of him¬
self and the woman he murdered will work together
to undo for others the harm they brought upon them¬
selves. She is rejoicing in her high sphere at the
work we have done for him, and will be the first to
help and welcome him upwards. There are many
more earth-bound spirits in this house and the sur¬
rounding houses who are suffering like he was,
though not to the same extent nor for the same
reason. But they all ask for and need your help
and your prayers, and this is the greatest and
noblest end of Spiritualism—to aid poor unhappy
spirits to free themselves from earth and progress
upwards. After awhile, when this spirit can control
the medium with calmness, he will come himself and
tell you, through him, all his history, and how he came
to fall. Meanwhile, we thank you very much for
allowing us to draw so much strength from you, and
helping us with your sympathy; and I hope I shall
see you to-morrow night, and that you will believe
me always to remain your loving friend, Joey.”
POSITION IN SLEEP.
POSITION affects sleep. A constrained or uncom¬
fortable posture will often prevent repose. Lying
flat on the back with the limbs relaxed would seem
to secure the greatest amount of rest for the muscular
system. This is the position assumed in the most
exhausting diseases, and it is generally hailed as a
token of revival when a patient voluntarily turns on
the side; but there are several disadvantages in the
supine posture which impair or embarrass sleep;
Thus, in weakly states of the heart and blood vessels,
and in certain morbid conditions of the brain, the
blood seems to gravitate to the back of the head,
and to produce troublesome dreams. In persons who
habitually, in their gait or work, stoop, there is
probably some distress consequent on straightening
the spine. Those who have contracted chests,
especially persons who have had pleurisy and retain
adhesions of the lungs, do not sleep well on the
back. Nearly all who are inclined to snore do so
when in that position, because the soft palate and
uvula hang on the tongue, and that organ falls back
so as to partially close the top of the windpipe. It
is better, therefore, to lie on the side, and in the
absence of special chest disease, rendering it desirable
to lie on the weak side so as to leave the healthy
lung free to expand, it is well to choose the right
side, because when the body is thus placed the food
gravitates more easily out of the stomach into the
intestines, and the weight of the liver does not com¬
press the upper portion of the intestines. A glance
at any plate of the visceral anatomy will show how
this must be. Many persons are deaf in one ear, and
prefer to lie on a particular side ; but, if possible, the
right side should be chosen, and the body rolled a
little forward, so that any saliva which may be
secreted shall run easily out of the mouth, if not
unconsciously swallowed. Again, sleeping with the
arms thrown over the head is to be deprecated ; but
this position is often assumed during sleep, because
the circulation is then free in the extremities and the
head and neck, and the muscles of the chest are
drawn up and fixed by the shoulders, and thus the
expansion of the thorax is easy. The chief objections
to this position are that it creates a tendency to
cramp and cold in the arms, and sometimes seems to
cause headache during sleep, and dreams. These
small matters often make or mar comfort in sleeping.
—Dr. Mortimer Granville.
WEIGHING A WITCH.
At Wingrave, in Buckinghamshire, so recently as
the year 1759, a case occurred of the old popular
witchcraft trial by weighing against the church Bible.
One Susannah Hamcokes, an elderly woman, was
accused by a neighbour of being a witch ; the overt
act ofiered in proof was that she had bewitched this
said neighbour’s spinning-wheel, so that she could
not make it go round either one way or the other !
The complaining party offered to make oath of the
fact before a magistrate; on which the husband of
the poor woman, in order to justify his wife, insisted
that she should be tried by the church Bible, and that
the accuser should be present. The woman was
accordingly conducted by her husband to the ordeal,
attended by a great concourse of people, who flocked
to the parish church to witness the ceremony. Being
stripped of nearly all her clothes, she was put into
one scale and the Bible into another, when, to the
no small astonishment and mortification of her
accuser, she actually outweighed it, and was honour¬
ably acquitted of the charge.
A Mysterious Evert.—A highly mysterious event is reported
as having happened recently in the family of a very respectable
widow in this city, of which no explanation has yet been made.
The affair is so well vouched for, and the character of the family
in which it occurred so good, that the natural tendency to suspect
deceit in the matter is partly, if not entirely, checked. The story
runs thus:—The lady mentioned, whose name, for good reasons,
is not given, was engaged one evening, in the presence of her two
daughters, in baking pancakes for tea, when suddenly, without
any visible agency, the cakes disappeared from the griddle before
the faces of the astonished lookers-on, who searched in vain for
traces of the strangely-acting flap-jacks, and even went so far as
to call in the neighbours to seek an explanation of the pheno¬
menon. None of the family are believers in spirits, but so much
was the lady affected by the event that it was with difficulty she
could be persuaded to refrain from moving out of the house, under
the belief that it was haunted.—Davenport (loiva) Gazette,
102
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 29, 1879.
TEE SPIRITUALISM OP THE POETS.
BT GEORGE WENTZ. j)
IN a course of reading of the British poets, I jj
noted some interesting and often striking instances j
of Spiritualistic verse, a few early specimens of which j
I herewith send you as samples:— I
And that my sprite by night mote go I (
After my deth and walken to and fro.—Chaucer, ; \
1328—1400. j
And therewithal I anon abraide . j |
Out of my slepe halfe afraide, ' j \
Remembrmg wel what I had sene, i (
And howe hye and ferre I had bene jj
In my gost.—Chaucer. j j
Alas! what wicked spirite toldehim thus ?—Chaucer.
And streight, pale death pressing within his face, j<
The flying ghost his mortal corps forsook. j\
—Sackville and Norton, 1530.
How now, who’s there ? Sprights! Sprights !
—Kyd. jj
Woe worth the man i j
That first did teach the cursed steel to bite
In his own flesh, and make way to the living sprite. ■ (
—Spenser, 1553—1599. jj
The spirits and intelligences fair.—Spenser.
51, Eayette-street, Baltimore, U.S.A. i (
CHARLES I. AND THE SCUTES VIEGILIANJE. jj
Among the many warnings of approaching calamity j j
that were vouchsafed to the ill-fated Charles I. was j j
one of a peculiar and striking character that hap- jj
pened before the Battle of Newbury, and is thus jj
narrated in the Lansdowne collection of manu- jj
scripts :— jj
“The King being at Oxford, went one day to see jj
the public library, where he was shown, among other jj
books, a Virgil, nobly printed and exquisitely bound, ij
The Lord Falkland, to divert the King, would have j j
his majesty make a trial of his fortune by the Sortes jj
Virgiliance, which everybody knows was not an jj
unusual kind of augury some ages past. Where- jj
upon the King opening the book, the period which jj
happened to come up was part of Dido’s impre- jj
cation against iEneas, which Mr. Dryden translates jj
thus :—
7 ‘ Yet let a race untamed, and haughty foes,
His peaceful entrance with dire arms oppose; j j
Oppressed with numbers in tk’ unequal field, j j
His men discouraged and himself expelled, j)
Let him for succour sue from place to place, j j
Torn from his subjects and his sons’ embrace;
First let him see his friends in battle slain, i j
And their untimely fate lament in vain;
And when at length the cruel war shall cease, j j
On hard conditions may he buy his peace.
Nor let him then enjoy supreme command,
But fall untimely by some hostile hand, j j
And lie unburied on the barren sand.’
JEneid, b. iv. 1. 88. ! j
“It is said King Charles seemed concerned at this jj
accident, and that the Lord Falkland observing it, jj
would likewise try his fortune in the same manner, j j
hoping he might fall upon some passage that could j)
have no relation to this case, and thereby divert the jj
King’s thoughts from any impression the other might jj
have upon him. But the place that Falkland jj
stumbled upon was yet more suited to his destiny jj
than the other had been to the King’s, being the j
following expressions of Evander upon the untimely ')!
death of his son Pallas, as they are translated by the
same hand :—
“ ‘ 0 Pallas ! thou hast failed thy plighted word
To fight with caution, not to tempt the sword;
I warned thee, but in vain; for well I knew
What perils youthful ardour would pursue.
That boiling blood would carry thee too far,
Young as thou wert in dangers^—raw in war!
0 curst essay in arms—disastrous doom—
Prelude of bloody fields and fights to come ! *
JEneid, c. xi. 1. 230.”
THE GHOST OF CARRACCIOLI.
While Lord Nelson was employed on the Nea¬
politan coasts, Francisco Carraccioli, a nobleman,
seceded from his master, the King of Naples, and
joining the Republic, was accordingly tried on board
the Foudroyant, by order of Lord Nelson, found
guilty, and received sentence of death: the same
evening, at five o’clock, he was hung at the yard-arm,
and the body thrown overboard. This act, which
was a very severe one, perhaps necessarily so, or Lord
Nelson would not have authorised it, was followed
by an incident that could not fail to make a deep
impression on superstitious minds. Three weeks
after the execution, when the King returned
from Palermo, a Neapolitan, who had been fishing in
the bay, came one morning to the Foudroyant, and
assured the officers that Carraccioli had risen from
the bottom of the sea, and was coming as fast as he
could to Naples, swimming half out of the water.
The story of the fisherman, which at first found little
credit, was soon confirmed; for the same day, Lord
Nelson, indulging the King by standing out to sea, and
had not proceeded far before the officers of the watch
beheld a body, upright in the water, directing its
course towards them. Captain Hardy soon discovered
that this was actually the body of Carraccioli, notwith¬
standing the great weight which had been attached
to it; and it became extremely difficult to decide in
what manner the extraordinary circumstance should
be communicated to the King. This was performed
with much address by Sir W. Hamilton; and with
his Majesty’s permission, the body was taken on shore
by a Neapolitan boat, and consigned to Christian
burial. The coxswain of the boat brought back the
two double-headed shot, with a portion of the skin
still adhering to the rope by which they had been
fixed. These were weighed out of curiosity by Cap¬
tain Hardy, who ascertained that the body had risen
and floated with the immense load of two hundred
and fifty pounds attached to it.—Clarice’s Life of Nel¬
son ; from the communication of Captain Hardy.
Miss Christine Tebb writes to us that Mr. and Mrs. William
Tebb have reached New York in safety, and that the health of
Mr. Tebb has been improved, rather than otherwise, by the
voyage.
The Swedenborg Society announces that it is about to publish,
at a low price, a small work entitled The Souls of Animals and
Platits. The purpose will be to prove that man only is immortal,
and to show the grounds upon which the assertion rests.
Mr. F. O. Matthews has given a number of most remarkable
tests at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s seances in Sheffield. A
report will be published next week. Mr. Matthews is coming to
London in a short time.
Aug. 29, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 103
MR. TYERMAN’S TRAVELS ROUND THE WORLD.
After the Rev. John Tyerman arrived at Mel¬
bourne by the Cuzco a meeting was hurriedly
improvised to welcome him, and hear somewhat of his
experiences, prior to his departure for Sydney on the
following day. It was held in the smaller Temper¬
ance Hall, which was filled. When he entered the
hall he was greeted with a hearty burst of applause,
which was prolonged for several minutes after he had
taken his seat on the platform. Mr. Ross presided.
Mr. Tyerman said that on leaving Sydney he
went to Auckland, New Zealand, prior to the arrival
of the mail steamer, and found there a deep and
growing interest in Spiritualism. He did what he
could to deepen and strengthen that interest, and
was zealously assisted by the warm-hearted friends
of the place. He went on by the mail steamer to
Honolulu and San Francisco. In San Francisco
he did not find Spiritualism in such a healthy
state as he could have desired, owing to causes
which he would not then mention. It was
not owing to lack of numbers, for the Spirit¬
ualists of San Francisco were numerous, but they
were divided. Yet he was pleased on the whole
with his first experiences, for he met here Mrs. Ada
Foy, an excellent test medium of the same character
as Mr. Charles Foster. But she differed from most
mediums in this respect—she could give her seances
before public audiences. Those who had studied the
laws of mediumship would know that it is often
dependent upon very delicate conditions, and can
only be used in private. Mrs. Foy, however, had an
organisation which could be used before hundreds
for the purpose of giving tests, answers to questions
written upon paper (which she had sometimes never
seen), and in otherwise proving the identity, as well
as the presence on these occasions of the spirits of
the departed. In the afternoons, at San Francisco,
several of the Spiritualists meet together in their
hall, and hold what are called conferences, which are
not at all formal gatherings. The chairman may
start some subject, which may be discussed; and
then, in all probability, as, indeed, is nearly always
the case, the mediums will describe the friends of
those present, selecting persons from the audience,
and telling them of their departed friends ; and, with
scarcely an exception, the strangers get up and
acknowledge the accuracy of the descriptions and
communications given. He would recommend some¬
thing of the kind in Melbourne, for these phenomena,
taking place as they do in broad daylight, without
the possibility of collusion—being, in fact, absolutely
fraud-proof—could not fail to carry conviction to
sceptics.
When he left San Francisco, he visited Virginia
City, and from there he went to Salt Lake—a city in
the very heart of Mormondom. He was surprised
to find that Spiritualism had such a firm footing there.
The majority of the “ gentile ” residents, of whom
there were a few thousands, were Spiritualists. They
had a large hall of their own, which would seat
between seven and eight hundred, and on many
occasions the place was crowded. The good and kind
friends whom he had met there gave him a warm re¬
ception, and he really enjoyed his stay amongst them.
He had here an opportunity of studying the nature
Iof the Mormon faith, and the character of the Mor-
| mons. Apart from their social institutions, the
I Mormons were at heart an interesting people. They
I had made many sacrifices for their beliefs, had braved
| persecutions and dangers, and had turned the barren
| wastes of Utah—those deserts where grew wild
j the sage-bush and arid shrub—into a beautiful and
I fertile garden. To see their immense Tabernacle
| which holds several thousands, filled to overflowing,
| is an imposing sight; and all this shows, if it does no
| more, what the force of religious conviction can do.
j He heard a lecture in the Tabernacle, delivered by
|! one of their principal speakers, and sitting before him
if at the time were several Wesleyan ministers, who
|i were in the city to attend a conference to be held
| during the ensuing week. The orator must have
| known of their presence, for he suited his discourse
)j to them, and actually proved Mormonism to perfec-
j tion from the Bible, much to the satisfaction of his
)j own people, and to the discomfort of the Wesleyan
\| ministers. This simply proved what he had often
(j said, that the Bible is the most pliable of all books,
(j and can be made to prove almost every conceivable
)j proposition—at least the Mormon proved his points
j j from it.
He then passed overland towards the East, a
distance of over 2000 miles by rail. In Chicago he
>f met Colonel Bundy, the editor of the Religio-Philo-
(j sophical Journal, Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, the
< | trance lecturess, and others. Colonel Bundy is doing
ij a good work in trying to free Spiritualism of the
) | humbugs who have fastened themselves on the move-
(j ment, and he was sure that all true lovers of the
)[ cause would wish the colonel God-speed in his
)j endeavours. In that wonderful city, which a few
n years ago was burned down, but which from the
)j ruins, nay, from the still burning ashes, had risen
)j like a Phoenix, Spiritualism had taken a hold which
)| surprised him. Not that this was visible to one who
\\ sought simply the external evidences of the fact.
>j Had he been a minister of any of the Christian sects,
n he would have looked for the evidence of the
) | flourishing state of his faith in the number of steeples
which pointed to the skies, the number of costly
) | temples which met his gaze, and the general workings
<! of the ecclesiastical machinery. But if he had looked
)j for signs like these, to give him assurance of the
(J flourishing condition of Spiritualism, he would have
)j looked in vain. The reason of this was, the Spirit-
(! ualists of America, and he agreed with them, did not
> | want to form another sect. We have too many sects
(j in the world, and the world has been oppressed by
> them. In Chicago many of the churches are per-
! meated with Spiritualism, and one of the principal
)j ministers there makes no secret of the fact that he
\j has communications from the other world. He
)! avows this in public, but at present cannot see his
\j way clear to come out of the Church, but tries to
?j harmonise his creed with Spiritualism.
In Chicago he saw two slate-writing mediums,
y Mrs. Simpson and Mrs. Beard, and obtained writing
si on slates under such conditions as were absolutely
)j fraud-proof. He first went to Mrs. Simpson, and
\| allowed the use of her slate in the production of the
) | phenomena. He had his hands on the table; then
} | he requested the privilege of holding her hand under
104
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 29, 1879.
the table. He then held her disengaged hand above
the table, and held the one beneath the table pressed
against the slate. He thus could detect every move¬
ment which could possibly be made by either of her
hands. Under these conditions he received messages
from his spirit friends. He then asked permission to
hold the slate himself under the table, not that he
had any doubts of the phenomena, but that he wanted
to take every precaution against fraud, so that he
might be able the better to silence those cavillers
who will not examine these facts for themselves. The
request was granted, and thus, whilst he held the
slate himself beneath the table, the lady’s hands being
on the top of the table, he obtained a message. There
was still one objection which might be raised to this,
and that was—she might have the slate prepared
with chemical writing. Of course, if she had, it
would be difficult to conceive how she could have
anticipated his visit, and have known his spirit
friends. But still this objection might be
raised, and so, to meet it, on the next
occasion he went into a stationers’ shop, where
he was unknown, and bought a common school
slate. He cleaned it, showed it to the lady,
and, under the same conditions as on the former
occasion, the lady not having touched the slate, he
obtained a communication. Doubtless they had
heard the “ chemical preparation ” theory put for¬
ward by the enemies of Slade to discredit his medium-
ship, but “this case would entirely meet the objections,
and for himself he could not invent any other theory
to explain the facts, but was obliged to believe the
phenomena he witnessed to be bona fide spiritual
manifestations.
With Mrs. Beard he obtained equally satisfactory
proofs of the genuineness of slate-writing mediumship.
With his own slate he obtained messages from his
own departed friends. He had these slates in his
possession now, and they were standing witnesses of
the manifestation of at least some “force/’ and an
intelligence guiding that force. If there had been
simply the evidence of some force, he might not
insist upon the theory of the Spiritualists; but when
in addition to the bare evidence of force he found
upon his slate a message signed by his own departed
friends, he was as much bound by the laws of his
Own mental constitution to believe that it had an
intelligent author, as he was bound to believe that
the writing he held in his hand was written by an
intelligent being.
, In Michigan he met with a number of people who
were looking for the second coming of Christ. He
met them at a large annual camp meeting of the
‘‘Second Adventists.” After having had conver¬
sations with the principal leaders amongst them, he
was more than ever convinced that anything could
be proved from the Bible. Every day, almost every
hour, they expect Christ to arrive amongst them;
but they are as sure to be disappointed, as the many
thousands of similarly deluded enthusiasts have been
during the past eighteen hundred years. In Michigan
the date had been fixed—the very hour had been
fixed : it was to take place at nine o’clock. On the
night in question the Saints were waiting in readiness,
robed in white robes, and anxiously expecting every
moment the descent of the Lord. At last nine
k| o’clock came, but Christ did not come. It appears
i | that some people at a distance had heard of the
H| intentions and expectations of the Saints, and re-
!)! solved to have a joke at their expense. They
J therefore sent a message by telegraph to them,
j)j saying that Jesus Christ had arrived in California,
j(j but had got “snowed up” in coming over.
After visiting many places in Michigan he went
u to Buffalo. Here he witnessed the mediumship of
m the son of the gentleman whose guest he was.
H Wherever they might be, they would hear raps,
|)| which would answer their questions; and thus, nearly
i at all times, when holding conversations in the
i) | sitting-rooms, whilst seated at their meals, and when-
!| ever they were desired, apparently without regard
i | to conditions, they would be joined by the invisibles.
! It was comforting, it was cheering. And what a
m vista of the future it opened out.
When he went to Rochester, a prediction made by
K| his spirit friends at Buffalo was fulfilled in such a
K! manner as to leave no doubt upon his mind but that
In the spirits could sometimes foretell the future. Circum-
Kj stances transpired which took him back to Buffalo,
| ? | without any assistance or knowledge on his part, as
Hi had been foretold. This showed him that though
Kj our spirit friends might make mistakes, yet they were
!>! often at hand to forewarn us of danger, or to prepare
Kj us for the future. Rochester, New York, had a
j) j peculiar interest for him, as they would see by a
j(j letter he wrote to the Harbinger. They had all
j)j heard of the beginning of those rappings produced in
Kj the presence of the Fox girls. In those early days
l|j of the movement the Fox family were persecuted,
ju and charged with fraud on every hand. But since
m those days the girls had all married respectably and
Kj well, and had had their mediumship proved beyond
|)| the shadow of a doubt. As he sat in the very hall
j(| where the Fox girls underwent a thorough trial of
j)j their genuineness, and where the phenomena pro-
j(| duced by them were publicly tested, he could not
j) j help reflecting on the great changes the past thirty
j (i years had brought about. At that time science con-
j/j demned and laughed at the phenomena, the clergy
j\j declared them to be the work of demons, and the
I) populace were so enraged at their mysterious powers
j(j that the girls often had their lives in danger. He met
|)j some of the very people who took part in those early
HI investigations, and he was amused to hear the ex-
j > j planations which some of the savans of the time had
Hi tendered. They said the sounds were due to some
l;j peculiar reflection of sound from the Gennesee Water-
( falls, some short distance from the place. He added
j)j that they must have been very loud to have traversed
j<! the Atlantic Ocean, and to break the silence of Great
\(\ Britain; to swell over the American Continent, sweep
ju over the Indian and Pacific Oceans, till they caught
j(l the ears of Australia’s populace, and enveloped the
j (j entire civilised globe in their mysterious tones. This
j)j explanation illustrates to what straits sceptics with
ju foregone conclusions were forced to. Having pre-
ill judged the whole thing to be fraud, they will adopt
Kj any statement, however absurd, rather than admit
i>| the truth.
Boston might be called the headquarters of
[51 American Spiritualism. It is there the Banner of
Kj Light is published. Here they had made such
Aug. 29, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
105
progress that they had a hall erected to the memory
of Theodore Parker. For years past he had read
that great man’s works, and from them he had
gathered some insight into his towering genius,
candid liberality, and intense humanity.
His seance at the Holmes’s was extremely satis¬
factory. He saw spirit forms under conditions which
convinced him that they could not be simulations.
At Mrs. Thayer’s, the flower medium, the manifes¬
tations were of a marvellous character. With closed
rooms, “ the doors being locked,” the windows fastened,
and every possible means of egress closed, they had
flowers brought to them. One plant was over five
feet long, so that it could not possibly have been
concealed about the person of the medium, especially
when it was remembered that the precaution of
weighing her at the commencement had been taken.
A beautiful white dove was brought in and presented
to him. An orange was dropped on his head, and
then fell on the table, showing that it came down,
as it might be, from the ceiling. All this time the
medium’s hands were firmly held, part of the time
by Mr. Tyerman himself.
He met with a cordial reception in New York, and
lectured to crowded audiences. Amongst some of
the most wonderful phenomena he witnessed whilst
abroad might justly be classed those produced
through the mediumship of Dr. Mansfield. He had
several tests from Mansfield in his own rooms,
getting correct answers to questions which he had
written upon paper, and then sealed in an envelope,
which was not opened. One day he wrote a letter
to his mother-in-law in the spirit-world, and another
letter to Theodore Parker. He then folded these up
several times, put them in thick envelopes, sealed
the envelopes, and carried them about in his pocket
all day. That evening he crossed the river and lec¬
tured in Brooklyn. After the lecture, Mansfield was
giving tests to the audience, and after he had given
several he requested him to make another experi¬
ment. Mansfield consented, so Mr. Tyerman handed
him the letters which he had carried about with him
all day. Mansfield knew no more about them, he
was convinced, than the Man-in-the-Moon, if there
be such a mythological personage. He took one of
the letters between his finger and thumb, and at
once dictated, as it were, an answer to it, concluding
with — “ Your affectionate mother-in-law.” Mr.
Tyerman was asked if the information contained in
the answer was correct. He could not tell until he
had opened the envelope, and then he found that
the answer in every point was perfectly relevant to
his letter, which was the one addressed to his
mother-in-law. The other answer was equally rele¬
vant, and concluded — “ From yours fraternally,
Theodore Parker.”
He left New York for Great Britain, and at
Glasgow met the celebrated medium, Mr. Duguid,
through whom was written the work, Hafed, Prince
of Persia. He went to his circle, and on that occasion
obtained three pictures, which he believed to have
been painted by spirit power. The first one the
medium was entranced to paint, his eyes being closed
all the time. The other two were obtained under
such conditions as absolutely precluded the possibility
of fraud being employed. The medium was firmly
tied in his chair—still entranced—and was then
\j placed a distance of four or five feet from the table.
) | Mr. Tyerman took two cards from his pocket, tore a
\ | piece from each, marked the cards, and put the pieces
q in his pocket. The lights were then lowered, and
those present sat in circle. Through the glass doors
n opposite which Mr. Duguid sat, Mr. Tyerman would
V| have been able to observe the slightest movement,
( had there been any, but the medium never moved
)I during the time. In the space of eight minutes two
(| very beautiful landscapes were painted in oils. The
(I cards were examined, and found to be the same, the
pieces Mr. Tyerman had in his pocket completing
j them. These little pictures were really pretty, and
(| wonderful from an artistic point of view (they were
passed round in the audience), and he defied any
(j artist, not assisted by spirit friends, to produce such
I ■ under the same conditions. Even granting, he said,
(j for the sake of argument, that Mr. Duguid was
>| capable of moving from the position in which he
(j was tied, and could find his way to the table and
>j painting materials without being detected, even then
yl he defied any artist to paint such pictures in the
)| dark. It sounded very well to talk about conjurers
(| imitating the spiritual phenomena, but they had
) I never yet imitated them under the same conditions.
(| No artist ever yet painted such pictures under the
| same conditions. Mr. Duguid also gave them an
(j exhibition of the fire-test, by taking some burning
)| coals from the grate, and playing with them as if
\j they had been marbles.
He only spent a few weeks in England, but his
)i stay was exceedingly interesting and pleasant. At
)j Newcastle-upon-Tyne he had a seance with the
! “ materialising medium/’ Miss Philipps. The
)j phenomena exhibited through her are perfectly
)j astounding. The forms appeared and disappeared
)j whilst the medium was sitting outside the impro-
(i vised cabinet. The spirit forms and the medium
)j were therefore seen simultaneously, thus excluding
\ I even the possibility of doubt as to the genuineness of
)! the phenomenon.
RELIGION AND SCIENCE.
Last Sunday morning the Archbishop of York
(j preached to the members of the British Association
j at the Parish Church, Sheffield. Towards the close
/1 of his discourse he said :—
A:
Let us compare moral with intellectual things.
)[ One of our friends reads every book that comes out
i! upon almost any subject, and can give out in agree-
| j able language the different views of various parties
j | on some matter of policy or social interest. It is a
(j common type in a time when men run to and fro
>| and knowledge is increased—the well-informed man.
! Another has been drawn to some one subject, loves it,
>| lives in it. All the powers of his mind are bent
(j towards it. At last the fire kindles and he speaks,
)| and a great poem or historical study or scientific
(| discovery is added to the world. That is the man of
|j genius. No one now believes in careless genius or
11 supposes that a hasty impulse, disdaining trouble,
j could throw off a Hamlet or a Paradise Lost,
ji or solve with Kepler or Newton the laws of the
)l heavenly motions. A modern writer of no mean
106
THE SPIRITUALIST.
genius has said that genius is the power of taking a ||
good deal of pains. At least genius supposes great K
power of concentration, even if it is not the power of j)
concentration. Now compare these two with their ||
moral counterparts. Nothing is more common than l)
interest in religious discussions; true faith is as rare d)
as ever. Men know that a good deal may he said j)
for the immortality of the soul, and for the power of K
the soul to know God ; but on the other hand a good I)
deal has been said on the other side, and this or that K
eminent believer has been brilliant, even jocular, on j)
the weakness of those who believe them. He thinks j\
that in point of party rancour there is little to choose I)
between the great religious parties, but that true K
toleration teaches us not to be hot or cold about any- j)
thing. He measures in the right historic spirit the
worth of any opinion by the ground that it is gaining i)
or losing in the popular mind. Nothing is so abso- n
lutely true but that something may be said on the j)
other side; nothing is so utterly false but that some |
day it may find a champion. This is the well- j)
informed religion of the time. That such a faith ||
will not move mountains need cause us no surprise, j)
But true faith, which has been called the genius of K
the soul, is of a different kind. It is not divided ; it |)
has given itself wholly to one thing. It knows that n
to love Christ and to deny itself, and to come after j)
Him is the way to live and to die, and it is trying to ||
do it. It has a measure of the truth better than j)
popular votes or the impulse of the hour. It lives j >
in the truth, and it knows that it will do to live on. j (
When the divine germ of Christianity was planted o
in the fermenting shrine of the world, there was k
every chance that it would perish, but Peter and !>
Paul were not students of the doctrine of chance. |(
They were bound to serve a Master to whom they ||
had given themselves. The Master was with them, I
and His strength was theirs, and they prevailed. !)
Such then are the contrasts between the sphere of j(
faith and that of science. Science aims at gene- j)
ralisation ; faith seeks the perfection of the individual. K
Science seeks to know ; faith strives to do. Science i)
is intellectual ; faith is ethical. Science throws \l
light on the world’s history, and upon the arts of life |)
and the wonders of creation. Science is now and ||
must long continue to be the possession of the few : j)
for nothing is more remarkable than the feeble ||
interest of the masses in the world which is their j)
home. Religion is universal. If there are excep- K
tions, as some contend, they are such as by their j)
degradation furnish the best comment on the rule ; j c
and in every nation he that fears God can come to | >
Him and serve Him. Science makes no pretence to k
supply those motives which religion has furnished $
through all the ages for devotion of life and high K
endeavour. “ All epochs ” in which faith has I)
prevailed, says Goethe—and this is remarkable (
coming from such a source—“All epochs in which j)
faith has prevailed have been the most heart- j)
stirring and fruitful, both as regards con- j)
temporaries and posterity ; whereas, on the other
hand, all epochs in which unbelief has obtained )
its miserable triumphs, even when they boast of some j j
seeming brilliance, are not less surely doomed to j)
speedy oblivion.” Can either of these two agents of j(
progress dispense with the other? I think not. i>
Aug. 29, 1879.
And if that be so, the misunderstanding that exists
between them, and that seems to be a gulf widening
daily, is to be deplored. The aspiration of science,
or as some at least interpret it, is all that men may
bask in—a sunshine of knowledge, with no mist of
prejudice or feeling to tint its dry light with illusive
hues, no cloud of personal hopes and longings to
soften its vivid beam. Yain hope ! Be the light as
pure as it may, all that I can receive of it is that
which is glassed in the mirror of my own mind; and
the colour of the mirror—its situations, its narrow¬
ness, its false curves—will all affect the image that
it renders back. What we have a right to complain
of is that so many persons say that religion may now
be dispensed with, pointing to the very safeguards
which religion has wrought for society as a proof that
order is so firmly rooted that science needs no help.
We read the signs of the times differently. If you
could persuade men that they are the children and
heirs of a strife for existence ; if you could prove—
as you cannot—that love of kindred and country,
and that remorse for sin and hopes for the future are
but modified reminiscences of the time when we
were represented by some soulless, speechless, uncon¬
scious tribe of animals—is there not cause to dread
the result? Nay, do you not see something of the
danger round about ? In one country girls of fifteen
and youths with down upon their chin dragged into
exile or to death for trying to overturn society by
flame and blade ! In another a fair city given over
to the lowest of the people to waste with fire; in
another a hideous creed of pessimism. It is a bad
world, and the more we avoid its concerns, and
the less we have to do with them the better for us,
creeping like a mildew over the minds and will of a
people, and in the country where materialism has
most strongly established itself. These are what you
find. Are you not afraid to remind man of his low
origin—of his schooling of strife for existence—at the
same time that you tell him that no master’s eye is
upon him, and no care is felt anywhere for what he
shall do ? Will not the answer be, “ If I am a child
of strife let me strive; if I am descended from the
brutes, brute passions are my oldest inheritance ! ”
When trouble comes upon him, and you have taken
from him those high motives for patience and sub¬
mission which at present are powerful, thanks be to
God for it, to soothe a thousand beds of pain, and to
speak hope in a thousand dark and starving homes,
and when the struggle for existence has been made
and has failed, you must expect despair, for there is
nothing else.
’Twere best at once to sink to peace
Like birds the charming serpent draws,
To drop headforemost in the jaws
Of vacant darkness, and to cease.
We are bound before we deprive man of the motives
which come from above to see what we can give in
exchange. There is nothing. We discourse of
hereditary social instincts which have come to us
from the ant, the swallow, and the beaver, but if man
is a bundle of inherited instincts he is not at all
responsible for the richness or the poverty of his
inheritance. He is not free; he is what these
instincts make him. As for the future, a writer tells
us that in the progress of civilisation the store of good
Aug. 29, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST.
107
will increase, and that as the race improves in m
education, sin and evil will fall off and wither away, j)
“But our life is new,” replies the patient to whom
this medicine is offered, and now we are imperfect j)
and unhappy, and if progress meets some of our l(
wants, it increases the number of them in a greater j)
degree, and the more it has given us the greater the ;(
surface it offers to pain and to loss; the more joys j/
we indulge in the more clear it becomes that such \(
joys will never fill and satisfy a soul. Is this all that j?
utilitarian morality can do to meet the cry of a great H
sorrow ? It is dealing with Samson, and it binds him i)
with these green withes; they will break “ as a thread
of tow when it touches the fire.” Oh ! at this point j(
let religion speak, for the words you bring to a crying ! j
trouble are not understood by most of those whom you j(
address, and are ridiculous where they are understood. | j
Religion can supply hopes and motives, as thousands j(
of lives devoted to God bear witness in the present j j
and in the past. It can mould a life anew and K
make it strong and consistent. It has turned suhmis- j>
sion into contentment; it has invented resignation, j (
It is no mere test of the power of believing hard j)
propositions; it is a returning of the soul to God, j(
with a recognition that God is its author, its hope, j)
its home. It is a purifying of the soul that it may K
be like its Lord, for He is pure. It is a devotion of !/
the life to love and to duty, even as Jesus wrought js
the works of Him that sent Him. It is a message |)
from ineffable love to our profound sorrow. It is no i(
credulous acceptance of paradoxes, no surrender of j/
the intellect to ecstatic emotions; it is a consecration K
of the soul and will to its highest duty. Shall ;)
religion survive the shocks that it daily sustains ? \
The suffering heart makes answer, “ Lord, to whom j /
shall we go ? Thou hast the words of eternal life.” |\
The thinker may adopt the conclusion of a French j)
writer who has studied the modern substitutes for |(
Christianity—“Religion, the contemporary of pain W
and sorrow, will last as long as these ; to cease to believe i >
in God, man must have ceased to be man, and have j (
become a god to himself.” To you, men of science, j>
belong the secret harmonies of the world, its immense j(
history, its wealth of wonder and beauty ; to us man’s j j
sorrows and aspirations. There is room for both, jt
Both represent a real need. Sometimes in the flush ij
of your success, in the triumph of a new discovery, u
when you are tempted to think that the satisfying j)
light and sweetness of scientific truth should now be (
all in all, remember that your word of scorn for j;
religious work might happen to spill the cup of con- j(
solation from the very lips of one to whom it has j>
hitherto been sweet, or quench the light in some a
much-afflicted home which may hear of your sneer ||
and will never mastet your discovery. There is room i (
for both and a call for both. To you belong the O
wonders of the heavens, of moon and stars, of sun j
and earth; to us it belongs to convince each man n
that he is not lost and forgotten in a universe that j(
widens as we gaze. Yes, God is mindful of you, too, i)
counts your sorrows, compassionates your sins, wakes K
up your love for Him, bids you work for Him, calls i)
you home to Him.
Mr. Joseph P. Hazard has reached Boston, U.S.A., after j)
travelling round the world, and making observations in various j)
lands as to the progress of Modern Spiritualism,
SUPERSTITIONS RESPECTING BELLS.
The baptism of church bells, which dates from the
tenth century, probably first gave them superstitious
import; they were exorcised, the bishop blessed them,
baptised them, and gave them the name of some saint.
When these ceremonies were performed it was verily
believed that they had the power to drive the devil
out of the air—to make him quake and tremble—to
make him fly at the sound thereof (Tanquam ante
cruds vexillum): that they had power to calm storms
and tempests—to make fair weather—to extinguish
fires—to recreate the dead—to restrain the power of
the devil over the corpse whilst they rung, which was
the reason of ringing bells at funerals.* The dislike
of spirits to bells is thus mentioned in the golden
legend of Wynken de Worde :—<f It is said the evil
spirytes, that been in the regon of thayre, dowt much
when they hear the bells rongen, an this is the cause
why the bells ben rongen when it thondreth, and
whanne great tempests and outrages of wether happen,
to the ende that the feinds and wyched spirytes shod
be abashed, and flee, and cease of the movynge of
tempeste.”
Yet Thomas Fuller, over two centuries ago,
quaintly impugned these properties of bells. “They
are,” he says, “no effectual charm against lightning ;
the frequent firing of abbey churches by lightning,
confuteth the proud motto, commonly written on the
bells in their steeples, wherein each bell entitles
itself to a six-fold efficacy, viz. :—
Men’s death I tell by doleful knell;
Lightning and thunder I break asunder;
On Sabbath, all to church I call;
The sleepy head I raise from bed;
The winds so fierce I do disperse;
Men’s cruel rage I do assuage.”
—Diprose's Superstitious Omens.
Manufactured Omens.—The introduction of a dove, which
perched at the elevation on a gilded eagle at the St. Augustine
mass in Paris for the Prince Imperial, proved a hit. The bird,
which is tame, and had three days’ lessons, was attracted to the
eagle by grain thrown on its back. It looked charming gyrating
above the incense.—Truth.
A Primitive Society.—Lucifer began, mythologically, as a
heavenly detective. He was the lawyer retained by the gods for
the suppression of vice, and, from long engaging in that business,
he came to love it. When he had nobody to accuse he was in
distress, and went about accusing innocent people. So he was
called the accuser. And then he fell lower still, and went about
tempting people to sin, in order that he might prosecute them;
and then he was called Satan. This was, of course, the first vice
society, and the end of its attorney.—M. D. Conivay.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Several interesting communications are kept over for a week
in consequence of the absence from London ot the editor of The
Spiritualist, who is at the British Association at Sheffield.
* The Passing Bell was so named from being tolled when any
one was passing from life. Hence it was sometimes called the
Soul Bell, and was rung that those who heard it might pray for
the person dying, and who was not yet dead. We have a
remarkable mention of the practice in the narrative of the last
moments of the Lady Katherine (sister of Lady Jane) Grey, who
died a prisoner in the Tower of London, in 1567. Sir Owen
Hopton, Constable of the Tower, “ perceiving her to draw towards
her end, said to Mr. Bockeham, ‘ Were it not best to send to the
church that the bell may be rung ? ’ and she herself hearing him
said, ‘ Good Sir Owen, be it so,’ and almQSt immediately died.”—
Bills's Original Letters.
108
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 29, 1879.
MESMEEISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late 'Wm. GbeGORY, M.D., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size,
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price Ss., or 5s. 6d. post free."
CONTENTS.
CHAPTEB, I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTEB II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTEB III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Bash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Beading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTEB IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Begard to Absent Persons—Betrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTEB V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Betrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTEB VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis's Method
and its Eesults—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience-Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTEB VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Oahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTEB VIII:—Phreno-Mesmevism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTEB IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Besearches of Eeichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—-Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTEE X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Beading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylie Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTEB XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTEB XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
OHAPTEB XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Becently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Cases—^Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley's Case of
Betrovision.
CHAPTEB XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Oases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTEE XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions,
CHAPTEB XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Bemarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, .and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. It. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modem Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first' two stances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very Sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Aug. 29, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
British national associa-
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman Road, Biuxton.
The object of the Society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well-known mediums, and are entitled to the use of
books on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
Mrs. WELDON’S WEDNESDAY
RECITALS. Mrs. Weldon gives an Evening's
entertainment weekly, at Tavistock House, her re¬
sidence (formerly Charles Dickens’). The programme
is varied by a short Lecture, sacred and romantic;
serious and nursery songs by Gounod, Urich, and Mrs.
Weldon. Tickets to be had on application free. A
collection is made for Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage,
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting vanishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, ll, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition, enlarged.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE
COMPARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from
Spiritualism with the idea that it is unchristian and
unscriptural. It shows (we think successfully) that
every form of mediumship, now so familiar to Spirit¬
ualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of identical
experiences. Also
HEAVEN OPENED.
Farts 1 and 2, fid. each. The two bound in one, Is.
These books, consisting of messages given by
writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth,
and their group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and
sorrowing parents.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street. London, W.C.
rpHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;.
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, Ac., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branjh
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.Q.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMEN,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late Wm Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
This second edition is, for its quality and size, the
cheapest large work ever published in this country in
connection with Spiritualism. Price 5s., or 5s. fid.
post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, WLondon,. 0.
Price 3s. fid. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN‘ THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“0! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
tranoe-mediumshlp of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VIL—An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced; The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. * The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
Wnite, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XV1 II.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of MoJern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVI i.—Die Sohnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon."
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D,
XXX. —“ My Saint." By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice W orthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII. — Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Hand-
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child's Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
rpHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
JL OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Pro’.oplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspapersays
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price fid.;
post free, C£d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Seientifle Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N. Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—^Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr.
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psyohio
Ft. roe.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances?—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza—Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S.
O. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Aceount—Testimony of Mr. 0. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr, H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J, 0. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Bane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Ohaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XTV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—•
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A. Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII,—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman—Kant — Strauss —Leon Case-
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. fid.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS EBOM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
PART It
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live ”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer-- XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vida—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
13 EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes
I ») psyehologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Socitte Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Am 29, 1879.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
A.ND PROSE IMAGINING-S.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaeabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
—24. The Angel of Silence.
PART 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27, The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. — 29. The July Bug. — 30. The Converted
Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; consequently
any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a genuine
vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who are not too
stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on
the contrary, some of his poems touch on the deepest
and most sacred feelings of our common humanity.
. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his ad¬
ventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is
quite one of the funniest things that has been pub¬
lished for years. . . . The book contains quite
enough to ensure it a welcome from which its tasteful
appearance will not detract.” The Morning Post says
of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,’’ and it says that the rhymes are pitched in
“ something like the same key as The Bon Gaultier
Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably suc¬
cessful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift."
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published, and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street). Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
rpHE
PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green i
These Essays won the First and. Second
Gold Medals oe the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C,
THE ALPHA; or, the First Principle
of the Human Mind; a Revelation, but no
Mystery. With Spiritual Advent and Steel' Portrait
of the Author, E. N. Dennys. 370 pages, price 3s. 6d.
‘We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellows.”
—Athenxum.
“It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and
logic than any work we have ever read; it is a new
revelation, and one of the most remarkable productions
ever given to the world."—Cosmopolitan.
Also, just published, with engraving of the Author,
470 pages, price 3s. 6d.
rriHE RELIGION OF LIFE, as exemp-
JL lifled by Jesus Christ. A series of Lectures by
the Author of “Alpha."
Published by E. W. AJlen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. Gd, each; postage 8d. per
volume,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The 11 Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ ..76
The Seer. „ III. „ ..76
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, . .76
The Thinker. ,, V. „ ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People 7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life 3 6
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .30
Morning Lectures ...... 7 6
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. 
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office. 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.C.
“ T E JOURNAL DU MAGNETISME,”
1 J published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
A LADY SPIRITUALIST AND
XjL MEDIUM is forming a circle for inquirers,
every Monday and Thursday evening, at eight o’clock.
She wishes to engage a genuine materialisation
medium for once a week.—Kindly communicate to
A., 2, Scarsdale-villas, Kensington.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S, T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
XTOTTGE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
LM NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER has arranged for seances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o’clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de-
velopmsnt for clairvoyance and other forms of
mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
jl/TEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
.LYJL VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, S3, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for 1 jd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
Now ready, 48 pp. Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS FOB AUGUST, 1879.
The Spiritual Pilgrim. Part II; by “M. A." (Oxon)—
Some Thoughts concerning the Mystical Death; by A.
M. Howitt Watts—Sermons by a Seer ; by J. W. F.—
Materialism in Religious Circles; by J. T. Markley—
A Pioneer of Modem Spiritualism—The Popular Faith
and the Claims of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Reve¬
lation ; by John S. Farmer—The Religion of the
Future—Notes and Gleanings; Brief Mentions; Dr.
Talmage on the Future Life; A Sign of the Times;
Honour when Honour is Due; A Curious Legend;
Healing Mediumship ; Dr. Colenso ; The Rev. Joseph
Cook on the Spiritual Body ; Spiritualism in Australia-
The Hopeless Sadness of Materialism — Spiritual
Lyrics: The Dual Mystery; by T, S.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBEOK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY-
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSOBOFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane,
ESTABLISHED 185L
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed. on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROF f, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
IND AND MATTER.—A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free.
Price 5s, Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
CONTENTS.
Mr. W. Eglinton’s Stances in Bruges. By
Florence Marryat Lean    97
Position in Sleep    101
Weighing a Witch   101
The Spiritualism of the Poets. By George Wentz. 102
Charles I. and the Sortes Virgilianie  102
The Ghost of Carraccioli     102
Mr. Tyerman’s Travels Round the World 103
Religion and Science 105
Superstitions respecting Bells    107
To Correspondents    107
Paragraphs—A Mysterious Event, 101 ; Manufac-
factured Omens, 107 ; A Primitive Society .... 107
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Full wood's Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by W. H. Harrison, 33, British Museum
street London W.C
