Registered as A Newspaper,
Olb^st ft^bspapr ^iteiiSr bii^ Spxrikalism xn <^nat §nfam.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: N'osque 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 288.—(Vol. XII.—No. 9.) LONDON: FEIDAY, MAECH 1, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Unproved Speculations...     ... ... ... 97
British National Association of Spiritualists :—Seances
for Inquirers ...       ... ... ... 97
Theosophists on their Defence. By “ M.A., Oxon.”    98
Writing Mediumship in relation to Spirit Identity. By
Emily Kislingbury, Secretary to the British National
Association of Spiritualists...   ... 99
Attempts to Make a Dog Believe in Ghosts 101-
Dr. Slade’s Seances with the Grand Duke Constantine ... 102
Private Seances  !. ...  102
The Views of the Theosophists. By Desmond G. Fitz¬
Gerald, M.S.Tel.E   102
Astrology -   -  .n 102
The Psychological Society ...    103
A Warping of Danger. By E. Louisa S. Nosworthy 108
Poetry:—Hymn. A Vision of the Life Eternal. ByJ. T.
Markley      :..   104
Correspondence: —Physical Manifestations—Two Critics
of Theosophy—What Truth is there in Astrology?—
Mr. Charles Blackburn’s Experiences with Materiali¬
sation Mediums—Materialisation Manifestations—
Will-Power .„ '  ... ...        104
Remarkable Materialisation Phenomena:—Mrs. Picker¬
ing's Mediumship   ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 107
Haunted Houses. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S., Author
of Letters to Miss Martineau 108
An Early English Seance. By Joseph Rhodes Buchanan,
M.D  .... ...     108
Answers to Correspondents  _     108
Paragraphs:—Flexible Features to Spirit Forms, 97 ; Re¬
ception to Mr. J. J. Morse at Derby, 102 ; Mr. Lawrence
Oliphant       103
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER?^
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in ah the English-speaking oouhtncs throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ivllis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. O. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr.T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia)": Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Ohurch (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author oi
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. II. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Rarrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. Wilham Oxley; Miss Kisling,
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles !(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue.. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
ASTROLOGY. “ "Worth its weight in gold.”
Every adult person living should purchase at on'ce
“YOUR FUTURE FORETOLD,” a book of 144 pp., cloth, only
2s. 6d. London: Ber&er, Newcastle-street, and J. Burns; or
post-free of E. Carael, High-street, Watford, Herts. Instruc¬
tions to purchasers gratis.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for. March, 1878.
Friday, Is#.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
., „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 5th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.15 p.m.
Friday, 8th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Monday, 11#7&.—Fortnightly- Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
„ . „ “ The Evolution Theory considered in its
relation to Psychology,” by Mr. G. F.
Green.
Tuesday, 12#A.—Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at'6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 18th.—Soiree at 38, Great Russell-street. Admis¬
sion to Members and Friends, Is.
Refreshments, Conversation, and Music.
Friday, 15#A.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 20th.—Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 22nd.—Seance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
. „ - „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Monday, 25#ft.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
„ „ “The Spirit-World as seen through Crys¬
tals, Mirrors, and Vessels of Water,” by
Dr. Kenneth Mackenzie, F:S.A.
SEANCES FOR INQUIRERS.
The Seances for inquirers will be suspended during the
early part of the month, after which they will he re-organised
on a new basis. Particulars may be learned from the Secre¬
tary. Private Seances for Members are arranged at intervals,
when the Secretary has received a sufficient number of appli¬
cations. Tickets, 5s. each. •
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, LouGhborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
R E C I T A T I O N S
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
Every Thursday in February and March, at 8.15 p.m.
Changes will be made in each Programme.
* Tickets may be had at Mitchell's library, 33, Old Bond- street;
Hayes's box office, 199, Regent-street; at the Hall: or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of eight recitations, one guinea each. Single tickets—Stalls,
3s.; chairs, 2s. ; balcony, Is.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Oox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS' BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London. .
Just published, price 5s., richly gilt,
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted witfi Spiritualism.
CONTENTS. ~
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The INIagnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treheme)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta’’—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryai
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burse—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna iBlackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies. D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon."
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F.R.G.S.—A Child's Prayer. By GdtaldMassey.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7.30.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & 00
Show Rooms :—18o, Liverpool Street, London, E.O.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of tyj q, &c., &C.; J
post free, seven stamps. ®
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.OJ
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold ami
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniag,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March 1, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President,
Alex. Calderj Esq., l, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honvwood, Sirs., S2, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C. -• W- .. _
Slassey, 0. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Comn, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.'J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sbeoter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Scrawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbxidge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock. St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morel!, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square,'West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St, John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square', Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp' General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdi6 Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-vilia, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs.Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson; M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq,, Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Snear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes: Esq., 33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq-, 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
LUut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAtheuee, Rue Scribe, Paris,
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-plaee.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples. .
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna,
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York,
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
. Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad.'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
ASTROLOGY, a Popular Sketch of
Celestial Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J.
Pearce, author of the Weather Guide Book, &c. Price
Is. 6d. Sent post free by the author on receipt of stamps ;
address, 3, Cedars-terrace, Queen’s-road. South Lambeth, S.W.
The TEXT BOOK OF ASTROLOGY, by the same author,
is now preparing for publication. Vol. I. will contain the
complete rules, and all tables necessary for calculating Na¬
tivities on the Placidian method improved by Zadkiel, by
spherical trigonometry (the only reliable and truly scientific
method). To subscribers the price will be 7s. the first volume.
Intending subscribers will please send their orders to the
author.
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
(fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner lAfe; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London. t
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby AND RICH. London : Spirit¬
ualist Office.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co. 
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE, a narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road. Derby.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientiflc subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., <fcc. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday.and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
  Address as above. , 
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, YERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, YERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
  S.W.  
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN,
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O.
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours,
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes. 
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Haps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N. 
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, Ac., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—.Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss ManceU’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.   
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m,
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 40, St. Mary’s-terrace, Maida-hill West, London.
TL. HENLY, Mesmeric Healer, 429, Oxfrord-
• street. At home from 1 till 3 p.m., Saturday and
Sunday excepted.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
Eubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two yols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
 London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes SAROEnt. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general ip-
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or gix copies post free
for 6d.
tl % mb t$ jljtiqiiimlisttt*
» Volume Tweeve. Kumbeh Kijme.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 1st, 1878.
UNPROVED SPECULATIONS.
All that Spiritualists have asked of disbelievers for years
is a fair hearing and the full publication in opposition
journals of our proved facts, without our necessarily insisting
upon the reception of our theory. This desired fair hearing
which the outside world has not had the honesty or love of
truth to give to Spiritualists, we have willingly awarded to
Theosophists. Nay, more; when they have given us
columns upon columns of speculation—all words, words,
words—without one single fact to substantiate them, we
have accepted their plan of putting the cart before the horse,
the theory before the evidence that the theory is true, so
now think that our Theosophical friends should spare us
from further speculations, and briefly give cumulative
.evidence, if they have it, in support of any one of the points
of their doctrine. What proof have they of the alleged
conditional immortality of man ? What proof of the
existence of sub-human spirits ? What proof that men by
will-power can produce any of the manifestations called
spiritual ?
The latter field of research seems likely to be more
profitable in its results than the others, for if spirits out of
the body can produce certain phenomena, those in the body
ought to be able to do so in the same way. We saw this
long ago. and in The Spiritualist of September 15th, 1871,
published a long article showing the desirability of experi¬
mental research in this direction, and recommending the
promoters of the Psychological Society to undertake the
work. But such research belongs to Spiritualism proper,
and necessitates no 11 new departure.”
The chief claim of the Theosophical Society originally lay
in quite a different direction. It set forth that the great
majority of the phenomena were not produced by human
spirits, and, in the words of- the president, Theosophists
recognised “in most of the physical phenomena called
spiritual, the agency of elementary spirits, who often falsely
personated persons not communing with the circles.”
Colonel Olcott, in his opening presidential address, further
said—“ Our Vice-President [Mr. Felt] promises, by simple
chemical appliances, to exhibit to us, as he has to others
before [Who?], the races of beings which, invisible to us,
people the elements .... What will the Spiritualists say,
when through the column of saturated vapour flit the
dreadful shapes of beings whom, in their blindness, they
have in a thousand cases revered and babbled to as the re¬
turning shades of their relatives and friends ? Alas! Poor
Spiritualists 1” Naturally, after this programme, an official
communication from the Theosophical Society was expected
by us, telling how—
A thing with horny eyes was there,
With horny eyes like the dead;
Its long thin nose was all of horn;
Its ears were like thin cases, torn
Erom the feet of kine ; its jaws were hare,
And fishbones grew instead of hair,
Upon its skinless head !
But, sad to say, the dreadful shapes have not yet been
seen in the column of saturated vapour. The smoke may
have been there in abundance, but no imps.
Of late there seems to have been a change of front among j
the Theosophists. Instead of their original elementary
“ black spirits and white, blue spirits and gray,” much is
now said about unfortunate human beings who have “ lost j
their trinity,” who are perishable; and a doctrine of condi¬
tional human immortality has been launched,'unaccompanied j
by any evidence of its truth.
If disbelievers said to Spiritualists—“We desire to j
witness your facts, and to examine your evidence, but as !
yet do not care to give attention to your conclusions,” the j
position would be universally felt to be an honest one. But t
111 the position of English Spiritualists to Theosophists has
| j been much fairer, for they have listened to speculations and
11! doctrines set forth at great length, without as yet an atom
j j of experimental or produced evidence in their support.
II j It is now high time to cease endless and profitless talk about
! I matters of doctrine, and to bring the facts and experiments
|| to the front.
I j j A few Spiritualists whose minds are not strong enough
! j to appreciate the value of the free discussion of all subjects
! 11 whatever, and who base their opinions upon the speculations
III of men, rather than upon facts, have had their minds disturbed
j 11 by the free spirit of inquiry abroad. Such may take heart,
! i for the well-established phenomena 'of haunted houses are
II i amply strong enough in themselves, to establish the Spirit-
j j ualistic doctrine of the occasional return to earth of the
j spirits of the departed. No spirit-of-the-medium theory
) will cover the ground, for, as a rule, no medium is there.
( No elementary-spirit theory meets the facts, for it will
j scarcely be argued that one set of spirits takes the trouble
to manufacture a sham spirit—the spirit of the departed
| person who visibly haunts the house.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
j SEANCES FOR INQUIRERS.
( On Wednesday, 13th February, one of this series of dances took
j place at 38, Great Russell-street, London. Mr. Eglinton was the
j \ medium, and nine persons were present in the circle. Mr. Eglinton’s
| { sleeves were sewn together, and the thread passed through the back of
> the coat, according to the method of “nearly absolute tests,” with
I which several experienced Spiritualists have on previous occasions been
I (i satisfied. Apparently the present circle, the conditions of which were
) j completely harmonious, were perfectly satisfied with this “ test,” as some
i | j called it. This sewing took place at the second or cabinet” division
of the seance, an abortive dark sitting having taken place around the
table, at which nothing occurred, except a very slight upward motion
] of the table. A short time after the medium had been placed in the
j cabinet the usual voices were heard, and the usual “ manifestations ”
i took place of motion of the book cover, playing on the “fairy bells,’’
! projection of large white hands in front of the curtain, writing on a
clean piece of paper (provided by a gentleman present), and cutting off
the point of a pencil by a knife provided by another gentleman and
i handed into the cabinet by me. Nearly every person in the circle
I stepped into the cabinet immediately after a hand had been shown, and
ascertained the fact that the medium was asleep. Just when leaving
the cabinet their dress was pulled, or they were touched by some
object, which was compared to fingers by some in the circle.
The message given by Joey was of the usual character, being “Joey,
God bless you ; ” and was written in sight of the circle, a gentleman
| present steadying the paper whilst the pencil moved on it. The mani¬
festations shown at this circle were of afar better character than those
| observed on many previous occasions, and the circle of inquirers seemed
very pleased at the repetition, in a good light, of phenomena which
have been often described. C. Carter Blake,
Member of Seance Committee in charge*
| A new weekly Spiritualist newspaper, The Voice of Truth, has just
! been started in the United States, and can be had post free throughout
| the United Kingdom from The Spiritualist branch office, for fifteen
I shillings a year.
j Flexible Features to Spirit Forms.—Several correspondents, who
i have not read our articles with care, write that we assert that
j materialised spirit forms have no flexible features; but this has never
been stated in these pages. When the medium is held or tied in one
j place, forms with flexible features often appear in another; but, in the
hundreds of times we have seen those features in a good light, they
have always, in the lines of the eyes and nose, strongly resembled those
j of the medium. We are searching now, and have searched for years,
for a “ recognisable ” living spirit face, produced off the premises of
the medium, in a strong light, and bearing no resemblance to the
medium, but such faces have never yet had life in them in our presence.
Nevertheless, this does not prevent others, who have had different ex¬
perience, testifying differently. What we want is, cumulative evidence
that a medium—say a boy—can give a seance off his own premises in
the presence of educated critical witnesses, and produce a living head
of an old man—for instance, that of the late Duke of Wellington—in a
strong light, so that every wrinkle of the Duke’s face can be seen by
everybody present as he talks.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 1, 1878,
S8
THEOSOPHISTS ON THEIR DEFENCE.
By OXON.”
The remarks which I made in the pages of this journal
on the various theories advanced, especially by Theosophists,
to account for the facts of Spiritualism, have served at least
two purposes. They have elicited a strong expression of
opinion favourable to the attithde that I took up ; and they
have drawn out an exposition of faith from the leaders of
the Theosophists which I have every reason to congratulate
myself on having been able to study. It is by far the
clearest statement that is before the public; and, especially,
the letter on p. 68, No. 285, states with much elaboration,
and with more precision than it is put anywhere outside of
Isis Unveiled, the idea of Madame Blavatsky as to the
spiritual organisation of man.
As the discussion progresses it becomes more and more
clear that the Occultists have a well-reasoned and coherent
speculative belief, just as it grows more and more evident
that that belief is Oriental in essence, and alien from our
Western habits of thought. It becomes plain, too, that the
issue which it is possible to discuss with any hope of profit
is not wide. The argument runs the risk of becoming like the
celebrated wrangle as to the colours of the chameleon. It
was black, said one. It was green, said the other; and
when the creature was produced, u Lo ! ’twas rohite.','>
I do not propose to enter into elaborate argument as to
matters of speculative opinion. It is the idlest waste of
time to,split hairs about matters respecting which there is
no final standard of decision. But it is necessary to say
something, where otherwise misconception would be per¬
petuated. I have no desire to be controversial. Madame
Blavatsky has felt, she says, u the scratch of challenge ” in
what I have written. No; not so. But, if she has, I
cannot affect to be sorry, since it has elicited from her so
much which is worthy of consideration. If I cannot agree
with some of her statements of opinion, I have, at any rate,
read them with some relief, for I began to think that there
must be some truth in the oft-repeated accusation that
Spiritualists were pursuing a course of mental depravation
to end, sooner or later for all, in idiocy. It has been a
relief to find that I was able to understand, if not always to
follow ; and that my previous bewilderment was shared by
not a few who are credited with capacity and sanity, as
times go.
Madame Blavatsky’s personal reply to myself I need not
argue upon. I must say a few words on some of the prin¬
ciples involved in it; and if, in jumping into the bramble
bush to which she unpoetically compares herself, I scratch
out both my eyes, I may jump into another that stands near
and scratch them in again. She does herself injustice. I
should not be so ungallant as to compare a lady to anything
so prickly as a bramble bush. I called her a rose. I did
not, however, say that the rose was not amply provided with
thorns.
The discrepancies and contradictions have been so fully
dwelt upon by others that I need not say much more than
that they exist. Whether from our fault or from that of our
teachers, there is a lamentable lack of a clear understanding
between us. And perhaps I shall not be far wrong if I
attribute that fog as much to the purely speculative and
unsubstantial character of the Theosophist platform as to
the fact that there is very little room for exact statement in
what is mere airy theory, or for profitable argument
about it.
This stands clearly out amidst much that is vague.
“ When a Spiritualist,” says Madame Blavatsky, pro¬
nounces to us the words 4 dogma ’ and ‘ facts; debate is
impossible, for there is no common ground on which we can
meet” (p. 63). That is so; but I hardly expected to find
the fact so clearly stated by her.
At the very beginning of what must be a long struggle,
it is imperatively demanded that the Theosophical position
shall be unequivocally defined (p. 62). 4 M.A. Oxon,’
is not'content with mere suggestions. Nothing but the
whole naked truth will satisfy him. . .. We must lay our
theory down on exact lines of demonstration” (p. 63). Most
decidedly my request is for plain definition for logical
deductions, for the nearest approach to exact proof that the
questions admit of,
II desire this for the plainest reasons. I know, as every
I logician knows, how dangerous it is to admit a hypothesis
I on which argument may be founded. The most seemingly
| innocent statement may be made to carry a whole mountain
! of speculation, substantial enough till its foundation is
| tested, and then found to be baseless. The hypothesis
1 with which the Theosophists and Theorists start are of this
| character. They are either (1) mere speculations, neither
j provable nor disprovable; or (2) incompatible with some
| other statements put forward by others on the same side;
| or (3) incompatible with our observed facts, and based on
I an insufficient knowledge of the system against which they
| are aimed. These sources of fallacy may be warranted to
j produce a fruitful crop of error if allowed to run wild.
I And I, therefore, for one, stand rigidly on my deter-
| mination to follow none of them into devious by¬
paths. I will wait with patience till the various Theo¬
rists have decided what they mean, and can produce
reasonable evidence for their assumptions. Nothing can be
fairer than the request put forth in the Editorial on p. 72
for some precision and exactness of statement. We must
| reiterate over and over again such demands, and we must
| abide by them if we would avoid the danger of frittering
| away all our strength on combating shadowy theories. At
present if Col. Olcott be read on the one hand, and Madame
Blavatsky on the other, we shall find the latter modifying
considerably what was to me so shocking in the doctrine of
i annihilation, as u M.A. Cantab” and 44 Scrutator” point out
(p. 92). We have Professor Wilder confessing that he
I neither has nor desires to have any 44 experience with
doppels” which Madame Blavatsky propounds as the true
! method of arriving at self-knowledge. The Professor in¬
deed, for one who belongs to a society that knows no dogma,
is sufficiently dogmatic to astonish one. He tells us that
44 spirits just emerging into new modes of existence are
likely to be too much and too well employed to render it
proper for me to meddle with them.” How does he know
that ? The facts, so as I observe them, are against him.
And again we have in the last paragraph of his paper on
pp. 89, 90, a remarkable statement of belief that44 at death
the soul goes out with the light of the spirit, but sometimes
is sufficiently enveloped with earthy or corporeal particles as
to be able to become visible to clear, seeing persons, some¬
times to make a voice heard, and certainly to impinge the
thought {?). But this condition is not or should not be last¬
ing. ... In due time the two (entities) are separated as
by another dying, and the good repair to heavenly places.”
And the non-good, I suppose, to places not heavenly! For
one who starts with a confession that he has no experimental
knowledge, this strikes me as about the naivest piece of
dogmatism I ever read.
44 Theosophists,” says Madame Blavatsky, 44 have no
dogmas, exact no blind faith.” She would have been nearer
the truth if she had omitted her negatives, and stated the
reverse of her proposition. No dogmas ! Why, what else
have they ? Exact no blind faith ? I should have thought
that their whole system was founded upon that, and on little
else. I should have said that not only was faith their
creed, but that they had transmuted their faith into works
when, in 44 blind faith,” on the pretensions of Mr. Fell, the
Theosophical Society first announced itself to the American
public through the address of its President.
Faith is good. Blind faith is dangerous; and very soon
the Theosophical Society found it to be so. Dogma is good,
if it be founded on observed facts; dogmatism is bad, and
should be discouraged. It seems, I think, to most of us
that from the glass-house in which Theosophy dwells, it is
dangerous to throw stones.
Instead of all this crude speculation, these modifying
particles, 44 it is likely,” 4cperhaps,” and so forth; instead
of this semi-theological theorising as to the future, this
shuddering horror of 44 disturbing the manes of the dead”
(who desires to do anything of the kind ?) we desiderate a
reverse process. We would proceed from facts to theories;
not assign theories as a reason for ignoring facts. I have
had much, and desire to have more experience with doppels,
or, as I call them, spirits; and from them, and from obser¬
vation of their acts and words, I have arrived at conclusions
the reverse of some—not by any means of all—that
March 1, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST. 99
Theosophy propounds. I start from my facts, and when in
doubt do not spin a theory, but prefer to wait, or possibly j
to ask.
“ The true scientist is always a Theosophist first of all,”
says Professor Wilder. One is tempted to wish that the
proposition could read the other way, and that the Theoso¬
phist were a Scientist so far as to use the scientific method
of deduction. But what is Theosophy ? Then I come with
my definitions again. I read Miss Kislingbury’s paper with
open eyes, for I found it started with the question, What is
Theosophy? (p. 76), and was headed, Theosophy Simplified.
But, alas ! my hopes were blighted; for I found no answer
to the question, and the simplification consisted in leaving
out the difficulties. Half-a-dozen answers might very
easily be given to the question by six different readers of the
late correspondence; and it is of that variety of statement
that one has a fair right to complain. As each little Bethel
is erected on a text, ignoring inconvenient contradictions in
the other inspired writers, so a number of rival societies
might be founded for eternal wrangling on the dicta of the j
Theosophists.
I fear that I must omit a great part of what I should like j
to say. But I again protest that definitions must be laid
down before any profitable argument can be had. For in- I
stance, I feel sure that I mean by Spiritualism something !
very different from what my Transatlantic friends mean,
while I can and do accept as mediums what Madame j
Blavatsky says are “ not mediums . . . but incarnate illu- |
minated souls, working consciously in collaboration with
pure disembodied human and unembodied planetary spirits
for the elevation and spiritualisation of mankind.” That is
pretty much what I mean by the highest form of me-
diumship.
When they speak of the dangers of mediumship I can
follow them \ but I turn aside when they speak so glowingly
of the duty of cultivating the powers of one’s own spirit as
being free from all danger. I recognise the ditty.
“ I know my soul hath power to know all things,
Yet is she blind and ignorant in all.
I know I’m one of Nature’s little kings,
Yet for the least and vilest things am thrall.”
I recognise my potencies, but I am by no means sure that
the Theosophist recipe for developing them is one that may
be safely followed. I speak with reserve, but, having seen
both, I tried both. I am disposed to say that experiments
with one’s own spirit, in the way of cultivation of its latent
power in abnormal directions, are both dangerous and, in
the pressure of daily work, impossible, and that in a far
greater degree than the practice of mediumship under
properly guarded conditions. But, of all this, each must
judge for himself. The fruit of the tree of knowledge is
not plucked without much trouble and some risk, if it be
only the risk of having one’s eyes opened so as to know
one’s own mental and spiritual nakedness.
Each, I say, must decide for himself in a matter that
concerns himself. I have no quarrel with all the theories I
have lately read beyond this : that I see no beauty in them
that I should abandon for any of them what to me is a
sublimer faith and a more assured belief. I see points in
all that I can accept and agree with, and I have the less
difficulty in doing so, that they already exist in my own
system. I know it is very easy to point the finger of scorn
at the blots that defile what is popularly known as Spiritu¬
alism. That is a cheap and easy method. The question
with me is not the least affected by any such course of
argument, which I put aside as I do Maskelyne’s assaults on
the phenomena, which I know really to exist. I take a
higher ground, and here I find myself in sympathy with one
who, in this matter, I should think, would be accepted by us
all as speaking words of truth and soberness. I quote from
the Journal of June 8, 1877:—“Spiritualism differs from
mere psychology in this, that it is a religion as well as a
science, and that, in proportion as Spiritualists forget this
they are helping to weaken its influence as a moral re¬
generator. ... If we encourage what I must call a grow¬
ing affectation of unbelief in our own facts, and are con¬
tinually wasting our strength in endless disputations on
points about which no real Spiritualist feels any doubt, we
shall end by finding ourselves unable to meet the attacks
I of outsiders, or to impress them with the importance and
| beauty of our subject. If Spiritualism is worth having, it is
| worth holding fast; and we should endeavour to put it for-
I ward in its best aspects, and not as though we had no
| longer any faith in that which we profess to advocate.”
The writer is Miss Kislingbury; and I am glad to find my-
| self in entire accord with her sentiments. They find in-
j deed anew appropriateness now which may excuse my re-
| producing them; and they express, in terms of admirable
clearness, a duty which, as “ a real Spiritualist,” I am pro¬
foundly impressed with, that of “holding fast ” to Spirit¬
ualism and endeavouring “ to put it forward in its best
aspects.”
And in so doing, it is something more than a passing
satisfaction to feel assured that within the ranks of those
called Spiritualists there is a large body of strenuous and
earnest souls whose sympathies are deep and rooted, and
whose divergences lie on the surface, and so are plain for men
to see; while their real and abiding faith rests deep down
below these superficial ripples, unmoved in its serenity by
the winds of controversy and disputation.
At no time, I firmly believe, were there more such
amongst us. At no time, I am fully sure, has their pre¬
sence been more needed. Dr. Wyld has expressed a fear
that discussions such as these may split us into two camps.
I, on the contrary, sincerely hope that the very fact that so
many can be found whose inner and real agreement will
stand the shock of external and superficial difference is a
hopeful indication that we may one day realise the prayer of
the Master for his children—that they all may he one.
WRITING- MEDIUMSHIP IN RELATION TO SPIRIT
IDENTITY.
BY EMILY KISLINGBURY, SECRETARY TO THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS.
“ The individual who first perceives a new fact, puts himself in advance of, and more or
less in antagonism with, others. If his perception be true, but not accepted, it is not his
fault that “ he be right and everybody else wrong.” Such a state of things has happened
more than once in the history of science, but it. is happily transitory; the many moving
one-ward, the one onward.”—Owen, Anatomy of Vertebrates, vol. iii., p. 165.
Of late there has been much examination and discussion
amongst us of new theories and possible new explanations in
regard to what we have known as spiritual manifestations,
and some of us have shown no little alarm, lest in so examin¬
ing and discussing, we should lose our hold on views hitherto
most generally received, and which are more or less dear to
the hearts of us all. For myself, I consider it of such
! supreme importance that we should arrive at right conclu¬
sions in these matters, that I shall not allow myself to be
j driven back or frightened away from due examination of
every theory, new and old, which may or can be presented
| to us, in explanation of the strange things occurring in our
I midst, and for a true and faithful account of which the world
i will hold us Spiritualists to a certain extent responsible. I in-
| tend, therefore, to go on exercising full freedom of inquiry,
! looking carefully all round both facts and theories, turning
| them over, and handling them familiarly, until I get right into
| the heart of things, and learn something of their true
! nature, instead of being satisfied with that which appears
I only. This is laborious, and often thankless work; but on
| the whole it is to me pleasant as well as profitable, and I
| mean to go on with it, openly and fearlessly. This evening,
i however, I propose to leave the thorny wilds of the great
j unexplored, where one gets terribly torn and scratched by
I the brambles, and to wander awhile up the old, sunny,
familiar highway of Spiritualism proper, endeavouring to
gather, as best I may, some traces of the identity of our
! loved and lost, as they lie scattered in the various records to
| which I have had access. Others will doubtless be able to
II furnish, from the storehouse of their private experience,
11 many far better proofs than those with which I have been
11 privileged to meet.
I have confined myself to proofs given through writing-
[ | mediumship, and to only a particular phase of that, for you
[ | are all aware that writing mediums present a great variety
11 of manifestation, and as this theme has been treated by a
11 far abler writer than myself, whose published work will
11 shortly be in our hands, I will only allude to it in a cursory
11 manner.
Broadly speaking, writing through mediums is of two
100 THE SPIRITUALIST. MA&cfi 1,187&.
kinds, direct and indirect. That which we call direct is
mechanical or automatic, that is to say, it is independent of |
the conscious thought or will of the medium, and is often |
produced by other agencies than his own hand. Under this
head I would class some planchette writing, and some j
writing produced when the medium holds the pencil in the !
ordinary way; so long as the writer’s mind is unconscious of j
what is written, the writing may be considered mechanical. I
For instance, I have known Miss Florence Cook write a j
prayer while she was reading a novel; or the writing would j
be done backwards, only to be read afterwards by reflection j
in a looking-glass. The same thing happens in the case of j
Mrs. Jencken. At such times Miss Cook has told me that
she felt a grip upon her arm, and she entirely lost all control
of her hand, and almost all feeling in it. Other kinds of direct
writing are those which take place altogether apart from the
medium, though his or her presence is essential to its pro¬
duction. In the case of Mrs. Everitt and some others, the
writing is produced in the dark in an incredibly short space
of time, in minute and distinctly legible characters, a paper
and pencil being placed on or under the table for the
purpose.
In other cases slates are used—the manifestation varying
with every medium. The Baron Guldenstiibbe procured
writing by simply placing a sheet of paper and a pencil
in a box ; afterwards the paper alone without any pencil; i
later, on tombs, in various churches and cemeteries, before
witnesses, believers or sceptics. I myself lately found some
very distinct pencil marks (three particular-shaped stars) on a ,
newspaper left lying on the library table in this room while J
I was absent from it, for about a quarter of an hour; the 1
two persons remaining in the room concurring in their testi- i (
mony that no one had approached the table, or touched any j j
paper on it, during my absence ; and no pencil being on or | <
near that table. The slate-writing through Dr. Slade and j
Mr. Watkins presents varieties of handwriting, signature, J
language, and diction; yet I fail to find in this class of j
manifestation any evidence of the identity of those whose j
signatures are attached to the writing. Evidence of intelli- j
gence there certainly is ; and of a kind often very different j
from that of the medium, that I think is altogether beyond ]
dispute. Perhaps some of the most interesting cases !
on record and which are little known to English readers I
are to be found in the works of a German writer. Mr. D. ]
Hornung, entitled Neue- Geheimnisse des Tages (Leipzig, I
1857) and Neueste Erfahrungen aus dem Geisterleben (1858), j
from which I will cite a few examples. These works contain I
the history of experiments dating from the year 1853 onwards, j
and are in the highest degree entertaining and instructive, j
The origin of an instrument of communication which should I
be less cumbrous and more rapid than a table, is described !
on page 22 of the first work above-named. The idea was |
originally taken from the ordinary pantagraph used by
architects and draughtsmen, and, after some modifications
suggested by the musical director, Wagner, was called by j
him a psychograph) or soul-writer (Seelenschreiber). This j
appears to have been very much of the nature of a planchette, j
and the latter is probably a modification of the earlier-devised !
machine. With this psychograph Hornung set to work, experi¬
menting with great diligence whenever an opportunity offered, j
He carried it about with him all over Germany, sought out |
mediums of every degree, irrespective of age, rank, educa- |
tion, or sex, and, by questions, elicited a mass of communi- j
cations as curious as they are interesting. Arithmetical j
problems were often solved with great precision, and, to ]
use Hornung’s own words—u almost with the rapidity of 11
thought.” Sometimes the tables were turned, so to say, I <
and the psychograph propounded riddles, to which, after jj
unsuccessful guesses by the mortals, the psychograph, less j
mysterious or more gracious than the Sphinx, supplied its j
own answers. Mr. Hornung also drew up a list of fourteen j
“ cardinal ” questions, which he submitted to mediums in |
Munich, Stuttgart, Regensburg, Vienna, Prague, Turin, j
and other cities, in order to observe what variations would |
occur under the several different conditions. When the !
answers were found to agree in the main points, Mr. Hor- j j
nung considered himself justified in accepting them as true, j
or approximating to truth. The conditions under which the j
sittings were held, the witnesses, the age, religion, and '
\! other peculiarities of each medium are given in his book.
11 The questions bear for the chief part on the nature of the
| influences exhibited through mediums, and on the method
I and process of their externalisation. I will give two ex-
j amples. Question V.—By what means is. the indicator of the
j ] psychograph enabled to givey letter by letter) correct answers to
j questions) when the medium does not know how to answer them ?
| Answer (2)—By increasing the power of the medium;
j otherwise spirits will often give foolish answers. Be
| careful never to call on such, for their influence is dangerous
| to body and soul.” (The medium for this answer was a
Roman Catholic lady, who, with her husband, did not believe
in the spiritual origin of modern manifestations.) Answer
(6)—“ All inanimate objects can only receive life from the
magnetic power of a spirit, or of an earthly being. You
have, therefore, a clearer and more convincing proof of the
presence of a spirit when questions are answered, the in¬
sight into which does not lie within the domain of human
knowledge. It is true that the words of invisible super¬
natural beings are things incredible by the human under¬
standing, because man cannot feel and grasp their personal
existence; and yet he can give no satisfactory reason for
doubting their existence.” This answer was procured
) through the joint mediumship of three young girls, who
| combined in holding the same pencil.
Question VI.—Certain reasonable persons assert that the
spirit-guides and guardian-angels of mediums are only a
| fiction of their imagination) in which they firmly believe) though
| no such spirits are personally present; how can one refute this
) opinion? Answer (1) —u When a man asserts that the
( medium speaks only from his own imagination, and that
; every man has not a protecting spirit, then it is he who is
following his own imagination ; for God has so ordered it in
His wisdom that every man has a good being who leads and
I directs him. If any one doubts my words, let him reflect on
them in connection with some accident or dangerous event
| in his life from which he has been happily delivered.” This
was given by a child of thirteen years old, of evangelical
I belief. Answer (4)—“Both are true. What the mind
! dwells upon as possible, becomes at last possible, and
appears finally as a phenomenon. If another steps in to
speak, I do not hold myself called upon to do so.” The
medium for this answer was a government official, a man of
ripe age, who had accepted the spiritual hypothesis. Taking
the answers as a whole, we find this hypothesis predomi¬
nating throughout, and the direct action of disembodied
| spirits asserted, though in cases of clairvoyance it is
| generally granted that the medium’s own spirit (or soul) is
] alone concerned. In his concluding chapter Mr. Hornung
1 expresses his opinion that the collective highest thought of
| the persons operating is the chief factor in the manifesta-
| tion; “ the echo of our own soul, our higher spirituality,
j the divine unknown, the hidden prophet, the universal
j spirit.”
I will now cite the instance given by the Baroness von
} I Vay, in which she received through her own hand, com-
! | munications from a cousin engaged in the Austro-Prussian
[j war in 1866, every particular thus communicated being
! afterwards verified. This is a case of the action of an em-
1 bodied human spirit, whose identity (as we understand
| identity) can be proved beyond dispute. I will quote from
| my review of the Baroness’s work Studien iiber die Geister-
| welt) in The Spiritualist newspaper, May 22, 1874.
A cousin of the authoress, called W , who was in the campaign,
professed continually to give accounts of himself through the hand of
| the medium while his body was asleep, which accounts always agreed
| with subsequent letters received from him. On the 4th July W ’s
I spirit wrote—“ We have had a great battle. I am well, but so tired.”
] On the 6th a letter came from W , dated July 2nd : “ We expect a
| decisive battle to-morrow. I have a feeling that I shall not escape, but
do not fret about me; my trouble will soon be over.” A day or two
afterwards W ’s name appeared among the list of those slain in the
battle of K6nigratz (Sadowa), which took place on the 3rd July. On
j the 9th W ’s spirit again wrote: “ I assure you I am not dead. I
I came safely through the fearful battle of Konigratz. Do not doubt my
j words. I will write you a letter in the flesh shortly.” Three days
| later the Baroness received a letter from her cousin, dated July 11th :
“ God and the good spirits protected me in that frightful carnage ;
] thousands fell; 450 privates in our battalion, and two officers.”
Another interesting case of an intelligence apparently
1 altogether apart from the medium communicating between
March 1, 1878.
THE S£lttI$UALIST.
101
two persons, is the following, which I give in the words of a
letter written to myself by the lady concerned.
Two days ago I received a most remarkable and conclusive proof of
the reality of spirit intercourse. Four or five days since, having been
unwell for some time, I requested of my guides information and advice
regarding my state of health, and also information upon another
subject about which I was anxious. About thirty-six hours later I
received a letter from a friend of mine, a private lady medium, stating
that she had fallen into a deep trance, and on awaking had found a
letter before her addressed to me, which she thereby enclosed. This
letter contained complete answers to all my questions, as well as a Latin
prescription (not one word of which my friend understood) which I had
made up immediately, and from which I have derived the greatest
benefit. I doubt whether any earthly doctor could so completely have
met my necessity. I need not tell you that the lady was entirely
ignorant of my requests, and I therefore consider this as conclusive a
proof of the reality and separate identity of our spirit friends, as can
possibly be given. My experience is that nothing occurs at profes¬
sional seances to be compared with what is received through private
mediums. Therefore, although I do not wish my name published, you
are perfectly welcome to mention the circumstance to your friends, and
as you know me, your authentication ought to be sufficient.
We now come to indirect writing, which though often
produced without conscious mental action on the part of the
medium, is yet impressionally received by the brain at the
moment that it is being written. This kind of writing is
sometimes called inspirational, and has a tendency to become
more and more normal, the more frequently it is employed.
A striking example of this kind of writing is Mr. E. Mait¬
land’s work England and Islam, the manner of whose pro¬
duction is described in The Soul and how it found me. The
writings of the Baroness von Yay are chiefly of this order,
and many of the French and Spanish Spiritist communica¬
tions are conveyed in the same manner.
Some of these writings are so similar in style to the
authors whose names are attached to them, that to some this
fact alone is a sufficient proof of the identity of their author¬
ship. Take for instance the examples of Dickens’s un¬
finished work of Edwin JDrood continued through the
mediumship of Mr. J. P. James, of Brattleboro’, U.S.A.;
some of the lyrics in Harris’s Golden Age ; many of the in¬
spirational utterances of Miss Lizzie Doten, and in particular
a little book by the Baroness von Yay called Tales of the
Sun-Rays, said to be given under the inspiration of Hans
Christian Andersen, nnd which is really very like What the
Moon Saw, one of the earlier works of that writer. But all
this is still far from proving identity, to my mind at least,
because it seems to me that such cases may be explained by
some subtle, hidden laws of mental action, under the heads
of memory, imitation, and imagination, with the whole
capabilities of which we are far from being acquainted. The
only proofs which can be deemed at all satisfactory, to my
thinking, are those in which precise information is given on
subjects or events quite unknown to any one present, and
which are verifiable. To this class of facts belong the case
of Abraham Florentine, published some time ago in The
Spiritualist, and other cases given to the world by <( M.A.,
Oxon.” As the writer of these is present with us this
evening, I hope he may be induced to favour us with some
further account of them.
A lady has very kindly furnished me with an instance of
proved identity occurring through her own mediumship. I
quote from her diary.
May 10th, 1865.—At seven o’clock in the evening I felt a powerful
impression that A   was with me. She told me impressionally that
I was to write down a message for her mamma ; that I was to tell her
her brothers were well and happy, and would soon be home. I
believed this to be quite false—because, as I thought, the brothers
referred to were in the West Indies, one being very ill. So, as I feared
yielding to an untruthful spirit, I would not take the pencil to receive
any spiritual writing. But I could get no rest all night, and the next
day the impression was so strong that I took the pencil, and received a
very beautiful message from A for her mother. This was at once
sent off to my friend. By return of post came a reply. On the evening,
and at the very hour that I had felt the presence of A , my friend,
being anxious about her invalid son, begged A , if it were possible,
to go and see how her brothers were, and to come and tell me, that I
might write the message for her. The vessel in which the brothers
were returning reached England on Saturday, May 13th, and they
arrived at home well and happy.
Other similar proofs have been given through the same
medium.
In France, Spain, and other Continental countries, the
study of Spiritualism is pursued almost exclusively by means
of writing mediumship, chiefly of an indirect character, and
in this manner the doctrines of the erraticity of spirits, and
of their reincarnation in earthly bodies, have been elaborated.
In fact, the works of Allan Kardec are composed almost
wholly from teachings received through a vast number of
writing mediums in all parts of France.
Tests of identity are not so much insisted on by our Con¬
tinental brethren as by us more positive-minded English-
speaking people ; they set more store by instruction and
moral and religious teaching. We find consequently that
Spiritualism, or to give its own distinctive name Spiritism, on
the Continent has a more elevating and refining influence than
is common with us, who view it more from the physical
science standpoint. I was so much struck with this during
my visit to France in August, 1876, that on my return I
endeavoured to raise a discussion on that point in The
Spiritualist newspaper. But some of our orthodox friends
were so shocked at my ventured innovation that I retired
from the impending contest. Since then much exposure to
fire has made me bolder, and I again raise the question
whether it is not more ennobling to judge of these communi¬
cations by their intrinsic merit, according to their tone and
influence, than to be perpetually seeking for tests of the
personal identity of our friends, to accept the teacher for the
sake of the teaching, no matter what his name or insignia.
But as this opens up altogether a different part of the sub¬
ject, I will not attempt to enter upon it this evening ; per¬
haps some friend present may think well to enlarge upon it
either now or on some future occasion.
ATTEMPTS TO MAKE A DOG BELIEVE IN GHOSTS.
(From “ The Evening Standard? Feb. (l(lnd.')
A gentleman, named Romanes, has been anxious to find out
whether dogs are believers in ghosts and Spiritualism, and has been
making experiments accordingly, with results for a knowledge of which
the world is indebted to the New Yorli Times.
Mr. Romanes began his researches into these mysteries with a bone ;
and this, the critic says of him, “is alone sufficient to show the
heartless and irreverent character of the man. If there is anything
which a dog holds peculiarly sacred, it is a bone. A terrier will
submit to be deluded by false representations that there are eligible
cats in the coal-scuttle, or that the piano is full of rats, but he feels
that bones are too sacred to be made the subject of jest.” Mr.
Romanes, however, took the bone, and tied round it a thin silken
thread; and, just as the little Scotch terrier with which his investi¬
gations were conducted was in the act of seizing it, his master slowly
drew it away. The poor dog regarded the moving bone with an
amazement which found expression in erect ears, and a tail gradually
thrust between his hind legs, and, becoming convinced, as Mr.
Romanes supposes, that it was but the ghost of a bone, incontinently
fled, howling dismally.
On the whole, the New York Times considers that the dog behaved
much more sensibly than many men would have done under a similar
belief. “ In all probability,” the journal says, “ had Mr. Romanes
ever seen a piece of roast beef in the act of cruising unassisted around
the table, he would instantly have asked it preposterous questions, and
would subsequently have let his hair grow long, and have become a
confirmed Spiritualist. His intelligent dog did none of these things,
but as soon as he decided that he had seen a spiritual bone, he
refused to have anything more to do with it, and continued to wear his
hair of the usual length, and to cling to that faith in which he was
educated.”
Mr. Romanes was not yet satisfied, however. He took a pipe, got
some soap and water, and began to blow bubbles along the floor. It
took some time to convince the terrier that these airy nothings were
not a new kind of particularly dangerous rat; but presently he put
his paw on one, and it, of course, collapsed. He tried a second, and it
likewise vanished, and then, recollections of the ghostly bone over¬
whelming him, again he fled.
Still Mr. Romanes was not satisfied. He proceeded to “make
faces ” at his victim, and the grimaces he made were so hideously ugly
that we are told the dog mistook him for the worst ghost he had ever
seen, whereupon he crept under the sofa and tried to die. Lovers of
dogs will sympathise with the poor little terrier; and if Mr. Romanes
continues his investigations, will hardly regret to hear that he has had
to deal with a larger dog, which pursues a more spirited polish with
regard to ghosts.
Dr. Alexander Wilder, vice-president of the Theosophical Society
of New York, is the American editor of Payne Knight’s Symbolical
Language of Ancient Art and Mythology, and Thomas Taylor’s
Eleusmian and Bacchic Mysteries. He is an accomplished physiologist,
and at the present time is preparing for the press a book on Serpent
Worship.
Mr. Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., will read a paper “ On
the Effect of certain Creedal and Conventional Limitations in Relation
to Spiritualism ” before the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism, on Monday evening next, the 4th of March, at half-past eight
o’clock.
102
i?HE SPIRITUALIST.
March 1, 1878.
DR. SLADE'S SEANCES WITH THE GRAND DUKE
CONSTANTINE.
On Wednesday last week, Dr. Slade, accompanied by M.
Alexandre Aksakof and Professor Boutlerof, gave a seance |
to the Grand Duke Constantine. The Duke gave them a
cordial reception, and after a few minutes’ conversation, the j
manifestations began with great power. The Duke held a j
new slate, alone, and obtained independent writing upon it. j
The Grand Duke Constantine has before this shown his |
appreciation of new branches of science. When Lieutenant j
Maury was obliged to flee from the United States during the j
late civil war3 the Duke recognised the then scarcely I
appreciated value of his researches on the physical !
geography of the sea, and oceanic currents, so offered him a i
home and a welcome in Russia.
Dr. Slade is fully engaged in St. Petersburg, and some- j
times obtains messages in the Russian language. At one j
of his sittings last week, he obtained writing in six j
languages upon a single slate.
PRIVATE SEANCES. | !
Last Saturday evening, at a private seance at the house j I
of Mrs. Makdougall-Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor- I j
square, London, Mr. W. Eglinton was the medium, and ! I
Mrs. Gregory, with six or seven of her friends, witnessed !
the manifestations. At first all the members of the circle, in- i 1
eluding the medium, sat with their hands interlinked j t
round the drawing-room table in the dark. After a few j j
ordinary manifestations, in the shape of the floating in the [
air of solid objects and of playing musical instruments, a 1
spirit form was seen with its head and bust illuminated by I
a large phosphorescent-looking light covered with drapery, | j
which it held in its hands, near its breast. This form was j I
seen by everybody, and several times glided round the 11 j
circle; below its bust all was darkness, and no footstep was j !
heard. It was seen by all present, and presented itself j !
for about a minute each time, then disappeared by the j I
cutting off of the light. At the request of one of the j !
sitters, it floated over the centre of the table, a moment i j
after it had been seen outside the circle. Once it raised I i
Mr. Harrison, chair and all, three or four inches from the ! j
floor, while the medium was held, as stated, at the opposite j j
side of the table. The light was not strong enough to per- I |
mit particular features of the moving form to be carefully j j I
criticised. j i
Last Tuesday night, at a dark seance with Mr. Eglinton, j [!
at the house of Mr. and Mrs. Campbell, 41, Wimpole-street, j
London, little took place, although all present were either ; |
Spiritualists or favourably inclined towards Spiritualism. I I
Among the latter was a poet and literary man, who had a j j
heavy musical box floating about his head, sometimes rest- ! !
ing upon his head and playing there, and sometimes play- ! j
ing against the small of his back. His head and shoulders j |
were frequently fingered by materialised hands. Beyond j ;
this, nothing of moment occurred. ! I
On Sunday next Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance address in the i j
Spiritualists’Hall, Weirs-court, Newcastle-on-Tyne. Subject: “Ele- m
ments of Cosmic Philosophy: Society.” Service to commence at 6.30p.m. |||
Monday, March 4th, same hall; subject, “Is the Devil Dead?” Lecture j(j
to commence at eight o’clock. !) i
Reception to Me. J. J. Morse at Derby.—A pleasant and nume- j [ |
rously-attended gathering of the Spiritualists of Derby, including a j (
fair number from the surrounding district, took place in the j j f
Temperance-hall, on the evening of Wednesday, February 20th. The j /1
object of the meeting, held under the auspices of the Derby j (!
Psychological Society, was to give Mr. Morse a public reception and In
welcome to the town he has adopted as his future residence. Tea j) |
having been disposed of, at which over ninety sat down, Mr. H. P. i
Adshead, of Helper, was called upon to preside. In well-chosen j) j
sentences he briefly addressed the listeners about the interesting event ! ( i
which had caused them to meet. Mr. A. Smedley then, in the name of j ( 1
the Spiritualists of Derby and the surrounding districts, extended a ! | |
hearty welcome to Mr. Morse and his family. He spoke of the j j |
valuable services Mr. Morse’s guides had rendered to the cause, and I j I
closed by expressing his pleasure that Mr. Morse was a resident among ] j I
them. The audience cordially endorsed the sentiments expressed, and I ( i
enthusiastically received Mr. Morse on his rising to reply. Mr. Morse, j j j
in a few remarks, expressed his appreciation of the honour done i) j
him. Other speakers addressed the meeting, and friends furnished j j i
vocal and instrumental music. Dancing terminated the proceedings, j f j
which were of a lively nature, 1' ^
THE VIEWS OF THE THEOSOPHISTS.
BY DESMOND G. FITZ-GERALD, M.S.TEL.E.
“ The doctrine of motion has been justly called the key of Nature.”—a
Maclarin.
In your issue of February 22nd a vice-president of the Theosophical
Society of New York comes forward to support Colonel Olcott’s propo¬
sition that there are certain beings called “ elementals,’’ who “ of them¬
selves have no more desire to harm than to help us, and are no more
responsible for their actions than the wind that blows, the fire that
burns, the flood that devastates;’’ and who “ are the force of the wind,
the fire, the flood.” In his paper on The Soul and the Spirit Professor
Wilder begins by bringing against me a charge of making an ad cap-
tandum statement in a very plausible manner; but the charge is so
vague, from the statement in question not being specified, that I cannot
make out wherein I have erred. He, in fact, confirms my impression
of the views held by the New York Theosophists, by immediately after¬
wards stating that “ The forces of nature, though ‘ errant, unthinking,
and soulless,’ are not lifeless, but are operated by a power superior to
themselves.” Reading this with the context of Colonel Olcott’s paper,
I interpret it to signify that “ the force of the wind, the fire, the flood,”
is alive. Now, although we have all heard of vis viva, such a statement
seems to me clearly to imply that its author can have no conception
whatever of the real nature of what is known to science as “ mechanical
energy.” I am one of those who freely admit that this, like “ matter,”
is but one of the manifestations of a creative Will; and, of course, both
matter and energy may, within certain limits, be directed and influenced
by the will of other beings. But that which directs a force can in no
case be the force itself: nor can the “force of the wind, the fire,
the flood,” or—as I prefer to say—any “ mode of energy ” known in
mechanical dynamics, have an individuality such as that ascribed to the
“ elementals.”
I purpose taking up this question when I have sufficient time at my
disposal to give it a somewhat adequate treatment.
The equation I gave has been somewhat maltreated. I may express
it as follows:—
m. v2
Kinetic energy =*= foot-pounds.
Here m is the mass, in pounds avoirdupois (of the “ wind” or “flood ”);
v its velocity, in feet per second, which has to be squared, or multi¬
plied by itself, and the foot-pound is the work done in raising one pound
avoirdupois through one foot. The “ force” or energy of “ the fire ” is
772 foot-pounds for every unit of heat, i.e., the quantity of heat that
will raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree
Fahrenheit.
ASTROLOGY.
The common saying that “two of a trade never agree” might be
illustrated by the history of the astrologers. Many a time have they
fallen out among themselves as to what should come hereafter, and
have so mocked and abused the credulity of mankind, that all ages
have, by experience, detected the falsehood of their pretences. For
example, Nostradamus, with his magical glass, was supposed to predict
the death of Henry II.; but Cardan and Gauricus, two lights of
astrology, foretold for their royal master a happy old age. Henry, as
we know, perished at a tournament in the flower of his youth.
A few instances of the false predictions of astrologers and magicians
may be here appropriately introduced.
Zica, of Arabia, was promised by his seers long life to persecute the
Christians, and died the very year of the prediction.
Albumazar, the oracle of astrology, left in writing that he found the
Christian religion, according to the influence of the stars, should last
but one thousand four hundred years ; he has been belied four hundred
years already.
In 1524 the astrologers foretold the destruction of the world by
water, in consequence of the great conjunction of Saturn, Jupiter, and
Mars, in zodiacal sign Pisces. The world survived the prediction.
It was foretold of a constable of France that he should cross the
Alps, and die before a besieged city in the eighty-third year of his age,
or, if he survived the sign, should live to above a hundred. He did
not cross the Alps, and died in his bed, aged eighty-four.
Without referring to more of these absurd predictions, which have
established their own falsehood and the folly of their propounders, we
may mention the case of that astrologer who foretold in a sudden
manner the death of his princely employer. “ Dispose, sir,” said he,
“ of your affairs with what speed you may, for it is impossible that you
should live long in this world.” “ Why so ? ” said the prince.
“ Because,” replied.the other, “ the stars, whose sight and position on
your birthday I have well observed, threaten you, and that not
obscurely, with death.” “ Well,” said the prince, “you who believe in
these birthday stars, how long are you to live through the bounty of the
fates ? ” The astrologer answered that he had many years before him ;
whereupon the prince ordered him to instant execution, and triumphed
over both predictions, by hanging the astrologer and living himself to a
good old age.
The astrologers were, of course, usually careful to predict what was
likely to happen.
When, however, the subject of the prediction was far off, the astro¬
loger might safely give the reins to his fancy, and indulge in any specu¬
lations he thought proper. Thus, in 1203, a monk predicted that an
earthquake should swallow up London in 1842. Dr. Dee followed in
the same strain, and declared that this dreadful catastrophe would take
place—which of course did not happen. Another plan of the astro¬
logers was to speak in obscure language which would admit of almost
any interpretation.
Lilly averred that a prophecy in Greek character foretold all the
March 1, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
103
disasters of the Cromwellian civil war, and ended by a prediction of \)\
the Restoration, couched in these singular terms—“And after him f(j
shall come a dead man, and with him a royal C of the best blood in the j) j
world, and he shall have the crown, and set England on the right way.” j) j
The meaning of which was declared to be the restoration of Charles II., j (j
thus:—“Monkery being extinguished, and the Lord-General’s name ju
being Monk, is the dead man. The royal C (the gamma of the Greek j) j
answering to the C of the Roman alphabet) is Charles IT., who, from m
his extraction, may be said to be of the best blood in the world.” If nj
such interpretations as this were to be admitted, any sort of jargon !)!
might be made to foretell any imaginable events. Why might not the j (|
astrological prediction mean that after all the troubles of civil war, and j | j
the termination of the Stuart dynasty in the person of Queen Anne, j) j
the dead man—that is to say, the apparently dead branch of the old j (!
royal family in Hanover—should come, and with it a royal G (George I., | (|
of course), who came of the best blood in the world 1 Surely, one inter- j / j
pretation would be as good as the other.—The Monthly Illustrated j (j
Journal.   j [ i
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
At a recent meeting of the Psychological Society of Great j I
Britain, held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square, jj
London, under the presidency of Mr. Serjeant Cox, the j j |
debate on Slate-writing Phenomena, as set forth in Mr. A. j j j
R. Wallace’s letter to The Spectator, was resumed. j 11
Mr. Munton, in resuming the debate on Mr. Wallace’s letter to the j) i
Spectator, addressed the society at considerable length. After alluding i j |
to the decisive character of the quoted example (that is to say, the writing ! (j
of Mr. Wallace’s own selected word between two closed slates which j / j
never left his sight), the speaker examined the variety of evidence adduced j [ j
by trustworthy witnesses, showing—1, that these direct writings were j (|
not due to imposture; 2, that the power, be it what it might, was guided ; ? j
by intelligence; 3, that, apart from physical impossibility, it could not j 11
be attributable to the involuntary action of the medium (some messages j j i
being in languages unfamiliar to him); and, 4, that it had apparently | / i
nothing to do with the mind of the sitter, the messages being frequently ! | j
inconsistent with that person’s own knowledge. Mr. Munton then j (!
referred to his professional association with the great Slade trial in 1876, j Jj
remarking that he had studiously abstained for more than a year from j (!
taking any part in public debates bearing upon that cause celebre, as he j /1
considered it was inexpedient for an advocate to do so. But, as those law j)!
proceedings had long since closed, and Dr. Slade was in a foreign land, j (j
never likely to revisit England, and all professional relationship had i)
terminated, there was no longer any reason why he (Mr. Munton) j) |
should refrain from stating honestly and candidly the result of his own j (j
investigation as a matter of psychological research. It was no part of in
the duty of an advocate (in fact, it was inconsistent with the very proper j (j
etiquette in the legal profession) to give any opinion in the open court j; j
on the innocence or guilt of his client, but now he was j r j
in a position to fearlessly assert that after numerous sittings I s j
with Slade (sometimes aided by skilled witnesses) the conclusion seemed j / j
inevitable that the magisterial charge, alleging all the phenomena to be ! (j
fraud and imposture, was erroneously made. Not that he (the speaker) j (j
was by any means disposed to agree that these manifestations were j) j
due to departed spirits; on the contrary, the more he examined into j (j
the matter the more he dissented from that conclusion. He, however, i (j
had great respect for those who had been able to satisfy themselves that ! ) j
the phenomena were attributable to such a cause. There could be little j r j
doubt that Slade was personally convinced on the subject; but it was j \ \
no crime to form a mistaken opinion, assuming it to be so, and but for j j j
the popular excitement which existed at the time of the trial, this ex- j) j
pression of belief would not have been treated, as it certainly was i \ j
treated, as more or less conclusive of guilt. Mr. Munton then explained j ) j
what took place in the shape of several manifestations which had j ) j
occurred in the presence of himself and friends. Among other things j \ j
he had induced Dr. Slade to reverse all the alleged favourable practices, i) j
that is to say, he made him sit with his face to the light, instead of to j (j
the dark; to wear gloves to exclude the finger nail theory, and use j j j
new slates to negative the alleged invisible prepared writing. The | J!
accusers of Dr. Slade had hastily assumed everything against him, and j (j
it must be confessed that, in the absence of explanation, the suspicious j \ i
manner and convulsive action, common to most so-called medial j) I
persons, created unfavourable appearances. He (Mr. Munton) was i (j
himself much struck with this at his early interviews with Dr. Slade ; j) j
but on patient inquiry he was convinced that there was an agency at j / j
work wholly beyond the medium, though what the exact nature of the j (j
power was he could not pretend to say. One of the main objects of the j | j
society was to endeavour by careful investigation to solve this problem. | JI
The prejudice on the question under discussion was very remarkable, j <!
One might divide the community into three classes. Firstly, those who j)
had taken the trouble to see for themselves; secondly, people who, j)
being absolutely ignorant of even the facts, excluded from their belief j (
everything they were unable to comprehend; and, lastly, those who were j |
ready to accept the word of any public conjurer without further inquiry, j J
It was a singular circumstance in regard to Mr. Maskelyne, that that j (
person had not only never seen the manifestation he pretended to imi- j j
tate, but his performance had not the faintest resemblance to what i)
actually occurred at Slade’s. No one could object to an effort at imita- i (
tion; but even at the Egyptian Hall some reasonable approach to fact
might be expected. He (Mr. Munton) had had no experience of slate¬
writing phenomena with the medium referred to in Mr. Wallace’s pub¬
lished letter; but when a man with such a reputation as Mr. Wallace
(against whose honour and integrity his boldest assailant had never
dared to utter a word) came forward to testify to these things, it was
surely high time that they should, after every natural hypothesis had
been exhausted, be thoroughly, systematically, and scientifically inves¬
tigated.   ^
A WARNING OF DANGER.
BY E. LOUISA S. NOSWORTHY.
An incident has just occurred in this household, suggestive
to me of the watchful care of unseen guardians. This
morning I sat in the dining-room soon after breakfast, read¬
ing aloud to my husband, my little boy writing at a table
near.
Suddenly the closed door was violently swung open to the
fullest limit its hinges allowed; such a style of opening a
door would justly be considered rude, unmannerly, and
worthy of rebuke; for an instant my feeling was annoyance
at the interruption, but seeing no entrance of a human
being, a strong impression seized me that it was a warning
of danger, and I flew rather than ran through the open
doorway to find no mortal on the other side, or indeed any¬
where else on the ground floor of the house, but to discover
that the drawing-room on the other side of the passage was
on fire. In an instant my cries brought all the household to
the work of rolling up and smothering the flames of burn¬
ing drapery, and the fire was quickly extinguished before it
had done much damage.
I am writing this with a burnt hand and scorched eye¬
brows and eyelashes, for I was the first to seize on a mass of
burning drapery. Some one had placed the drapery on a
chair so near the fire as to be within reach of sparks, or those
dangerous explosive pieces of coal which occasionally fly
beyond the limits of the fireplace.
Calmly contemplating this incident now that serenity is
restored to a temporarily terror-stricken household, I see
that but for that warning by the door opening in a few
moments a room, or perchance an entire house, would have
been in imminent peril of total destruction. When I
entered the room a chair was burning, a mass of drapery
burning and a hearthrug in the same condition. In close
proximity to these articles stood a large painted and
varnished screen of most combustible materials; if the flames
had caught it, their fury could not easily have been arrested.
I see also that no warning save that remarkable springing
open of the door would have had such a decisive effect in
causing my immediate exit from the room, as I had settled
myself to reading for an hour.
I assert that when the door opened in the manner I have
described, no human being save the persons inside the dining¬
room were on that floor of the house. The servant from
the kitchen rushed up from the floor beneath, and those
occupied in the bedrooms ran down on hearing the alarm.
Each person of the household has been closely questioned,
and the whereabouts of each ascertained at the time of the
mysterious door-opening, and there remains no hypothesis by
which to account for the occurrence but that of an unseen
agency kindly interfering to prevent trouble and damage.
To that unseen agency, as well as to the Supreme Power
ruling and directing all agencies, I desire publicly to testify
my gratitude for the deliverance.
New Leeds, Leeds, February 24th, 1878.
Mr. J. W. Fletcher writesArrangements are being made by
the Americans in London for a celebration of the Anniversary of Modern
Spiritualism. Announcements of time, place, and the speakers to
appear, will be made.”
Mr. Lawrence Oliphant.—Mr. Lawrence Oliphant, late M.P. for
the Stirling Boroughs, and Paris correspondent of the Times, has
rejoined the Spiritualistic community of Mr. Thomas Lake Harris, in
America, and is now there with his wife. Mr. Oliphant, tired of a
useless life in fashionable London, threw it up some years ago, to follow
an industrious career in Mr. Harris’s community, and to do some good
to the world as a consequence of his existence in it. In his excellent
novel, Piccadilly (Blackwood & Son), he gives a most truthful and
amusing picture of artificial life in the Metropolis, both among people of
refinement and people of vulgar wealth. It is a book which will exactly,
meet the taste of intelligent Spiritualists.
104
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 1, 1878.
itoetrg.
HYMN.
Send ns, Lord, we pray Thee, from Thy holy sphere.
Spirits bright to cheer us, midst our darkness here;
May their light illumine hearts that fear or doubt,
Bringing souls within, who linger now without.
Fill our hearts with gladness—Where is now Death’s sting?
Since to us our lost ones back Thou deign’st to bring,
Telling no of triumph in the life to come,
When, Earth’s trials oyer, Thou shalt call us home.
Let Thy Holy Spirit on all flesh be poured.
Be thou, Lord Almighty, by all hearts adored.
Hallow our affections, keep our souls from sin,
Cleanse each inmost chamber,—let Christ enter in.
And, if aught unworthy in our hearts abide,
Let the Lord’s perfection our corruption hide ;
Till He leads us upwards, to the throne above,
Where enshrined He reigneth, whose best name is Love.
Praise the Lord of Mercy ! loving ones He sends,
Perfect with imperfect, thus the Father blends.
Guard us, Lord, from evil, who Thy love confess,
Fill them, Lord, with blessing, sent our souls to bless,
But, midst all their pleasures, may the brightest be
Joy, as sight of souls, turned by them to Thee :
When, at Thy Great Harvest, heavy sheaves they bring,
And we, with them, worship thee, Lord, God, and King.
George Sutherland.
A VISION OF THE LIFE ETERNAL.
BY J. T. MARKLEY.
Through soft blue lightnings in the evening sky—
Past autumn peak-clouds in the distant west,—
Methinks I glimpsed the world of endless day,
Where coffins, tears, and cypress are unknown.
The heavens open’d to my entranced gaze,
And sweetly awful was the cloud-fring’d scene—
The midnight entrance to pure love and life,—
The realm of gods,—of church’d and unchurch’d saints,
Of heroes, martyrs; kings awaiting thrones—
The home of angel-progress evermore.
I saw no graves, or lauding epitaphs,—
No white-robed priests of books of holy law,
For death was but a memory of the past,
And praise became its own interpreter:
Each worthy soul the saviour of itself,
And God the premier spirit of the throng.
I failed to trace the marks of sin or blood,
Or find the constant agonies of earth.
No pains, no groans—no harp-strings out of tune,
No hells of conscience to disturb the peace
In that fair clime of love, sweet sounds, and truth.
The widow’s bitter wuil—the orphan’s cry,
The consecrated shame of lowly birth,—
The signals of distress by land and sea
Rent not the breasts of holy crowds aloft.
Their summer grew eternally more grand,
As through the chaste unfoldings of new song
The spirits rose to higher spheres of light
And reached a paradise of lovelier view.
* * * *
The light’ning ceased to play : the dream-life fled;
And darkness, doubt—the pains of flesh-bound man,
Returned to haunt the student in his muse.
But why despair ?—the light, the love, the flowers,
The music, goodness, beauty of the skies,
The tenderness and bliss of yon long life
Is ours for aye, by birthright and bequest.
Peterborough.
(Eorresponimtce.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express op inions diametrical} y opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.']
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—In such contributions as I have been able to make to the
literature of Spiritualism, I have generally confined myself to facts,
and have not cared to discuss, much less to invent, theories. The testi¬
mony of a spirit is no doubt a fact to be considered, but his account of
the mode by which he produces certain effects is not necessarily to be
accepted as true,
The spirits with whom I have become acquainted are reticent
respecting the spiritual life. They say that it is very difficult for them
to explain and for us to comprehend. But they strongly insist upon
their own independent existence, personality, and individuality, and
warmly and indignantly resent the accusation that they are the spirits
of the mediums, or are other than themselves. Our friend “Joey,” for
example, declares, speaking in his materialised form, that he is no one
hut himself, as much an individual person as you are, perfectly remem¬
bering who and what he was in this world, and perfectly knowing what
he now is—himself and no other; and he speaks with a natural human
indignation of the efforts of ingenious theorists to deprive him of his
identity, and make him out to be other than he is.
Returning to the facts which seem to me more interesting than argu¬
ments, I should like to give a few which I have lately had the oppor¬
tunity of observing. Sitting a few days ago with four persons who are
all more or less mediums around a small table, a card of three by four
inches, and a lead pencil, were laid upon it. I examined the card, and
to identify it, put a corner torn off into my waistcoat pocket. The gas
>
was then turned off, and hands joined round the table. It was
perfect darkness, which no one will object to when they read of what
was done.
In a minute and a half, by estimate, I heard a sound of a pencil on
paper, and supposed a message was being written on the card. In less
than half a minute there were raps for light. When the gas was lighted,
we found upon the card a very beautiful portrait of a lady, which I
doubt if the cleverest artist in England could have drawn in the best
light in ten minutes, and which it would be utterly impossible for any
one to draw in the dark. I know that when the light was extinguished,
there was no mark upon the card. I know that it was the same card,
for I accurately fitted the torn edge with the corner in my pocket. I
believe that all hands were joined, and that, in the perfect darkness I
heard the drawing being made. The microscope will show that it was
made with a pencil. For those who were present there could scarcely
be a more perfect test.
Possibly a better one for some of the persons present was given under
precisely similar circumstances a few days before, when I laid upon the
table a sheet of note paper marked with my initials. In perfect dark¬
ness we heard the sound as of writing, and, on getting a light, found
written across the paper in four directions four distinct messages, in four
different handwritings, each quite peculiar, and each perfectly recog¬
nised by persons present as the handwriting of individuals they had
known. I see no flaw in this, and no possibility of deception. The
notepaper and the card are pasted in my album, and I could prove what
I have stated in regard to them in any court of justice by the oaths of
five unimpeachable witnesses.
I had never until quite lately had any personal experience of the
production of flowers, and have suspected deception in some cases I have
read of. They came to us unexpectedly. We were sitting in a small
room, with its doors and windows securely fastened, in the dark. The
musical boxes had been wound up, started, stopped, and whirled about
while playing in all parts of the room, from floor to ceiling, while all
hands were, I have reason to believe, clasped in each other around the
table. Then came a breeze of the most delicious perfume. Then fresh
ferns and flowers of five or six sorts, fell upon our hands, as they were
joined around the table. They were cool and moist with dew. The
same night, at eleven o’clock, as I was about to get into bed, on turning
down the clothes, I found just below my pillow a handful of violets.
The stems were not wet, but the dew in each calyx had left a damp spot
on the sheet. There were no violets in or about the house, and no one
had entered it; nor is there the least probability that they were brought
by any mortal hand. I do not give this as a test, for it is not absolute.
One cannot prove a negative in such a case.
But here is an instance of slate writing which I give at'second-hand.
A gentleman fastened together two small clean slates, with a bit of
pencil between them, wrapped them in strong paper, and securely sealed
them. He brought the packet to Willie Eglinton, one of the mediums
in the test cases given above; and laid it on the table, where it lay in
his sight, and was not removed from it for one instant. He took the
slates away securely sealed as he had brought them, and on breaking
the seals and opening them at home, found the insides covered with
writing in several languages. Being a man of science, and a member of
various learned societies, he went to a popular Materialist, to show him
what he had got. “ I wouldn’t believe my own father,” said the savant,
“if he told me such a story as that.”
And, indeed, how can a man settled in, and committed to, materialism,
in a dozen learned volumes, be expected to believe a fact which reduces
to rubbish the labours of his life, and destroys the reputation that gives
life its value. If only one of the million facts of spiritual manifestations
is true, what would become of our philosophers ?
In this view of the case, I cannot but wonder at the sneers at
“ Spiritism ” of Mr. Mivart in his criticisms of the hypotheses of Mr.
Darwin. One fact would be worth more to most people than all his
logic, and if the fact were diabolic, it would not be one whit less
valuable. An evil spirit disproves materialism just as well as a good
spirit. If one were to raise the devil in the Hall of Science, Mr.
Bradlaugh would be confuted all the same.
I have no experience of evil spirits that I am aware of. On one
occasion in twenty years I have witnessed the operations of what seemed
to me disorderly and, to say the least, impolitic ones. In a dark seance
the hearth-rug was rolled up and placed upon the table, and a large
fender put upon the arms of some of the sitters ; my chair, and that of
Mr. Eglinton, whose hand I was holding, were in the same moment
pulled from under us, and again, a moment after, in the full light,
instantaneously and with great force. “ Joey ” explained that these
things were done by some unruly fellows, who had come with one of
the sitters, who had been admitted for the first time, and that he
(“ Joey ”) had not been able to control them.
I have spoken of the amount of force often exerted. A heavy table
is frequently suspended in the air for twenty seconds. I have seen one
lifted with a man sitting on it. Several times Willie Eglinton, while I
have held his hand, has been lifted so high in the air that I have had to
rise from my chair to keep hold of him, and his head must have nearly
touched the ceiling, while his feet were above my head. Not only was
his weight sustained, but a strong pull was made to draw me up after
him.
I think I cannot be wrong in thinking that facts of this kind are
worthy of the attention of men of science and philosophers.
T. L. Nichols, M.D.
32, Fopstone-roacl, Earl’s Court, S.W.
TWO CRITICS OF THEOSOPHY.
Sir,—In my experience of controversial caricatures of misunderstood
opinions, I think I never met with such a farrago of misconceptions as
the three or four columns of your last number, over the signatures of
March 1, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
105
Cantab.” and “ Scrutator.’’ Nor by the light of the several
communications from Colonel Olcott and Madame Blavatsky (Spiritualist,
December 7th and February 8th) can they be regarded* as excusable.
The epithets “ uncharitable,” “ self-righteous,” a slanderous,” “ effron¬
tery,” “ absurd,” “cruel,” may be considered by these writers a fitting
response to the appeal with which Madame Blavatsky’s letter concludes.
“In the name of logic and common sense, let us, before bandying
epithets, submit our differences to the arbitrament of reason.” But
there is one precaution in controversy which it is never safe, not to say
fair, to neglect. Whenever you are about to impute to an opponent, not
being a notorious and previously convicted fool, some transparently
absurd, monstrous, and even wicked opinion, first make sure that he
holds, or, at least, that he may plausibly be represented as holding it,
by possible construction or intendment. Both. “ M.A., Cantab,” and
“ Scrutator,” distinctly attribute to Colonel Olcott the dogma, inference,
or assumption, which is stated by “ Scrutator ” in these wonderful
terms:—“ Every physical medium is already an astral man, that is, a
mere soul, who has already lost his trinity.” Colonel Olcott had said,
“ Mediumistic physical phenomena are not produced by pure spirits,
but by * souls,’ embodied or disembodied, and usually with the help of
elementals,” and “ the whole range of physical phenomena, from rap¬
ping to full form presentations, are manifestations of the power of either
earth bound elementaries, helped by elementals, or the souls of the
mediums themselves,” thatis, says “ Scrutator,” “ souls that have lost their
spirits.” “There is no disguising,” he continues, “thatthe dictum of
Colonel Olcott assumes ” the proposition above quoted. It is scarcely
worth pausing to notice that Col. Olcott’s proposition is in the alterna¬
tive, “ by elementaries or by the soul of the medium,” and thus that
even if “Scrutator” had rightly understood instead of having ludi¬
crously misapprehended the meaning of the “ soul ” or u astral man,” it
does not follow that all physical mediums produce the phenomena by
their own “ souls,” which might, therefore, not have lost their “ spirits.”
“Scrutator” vaults over this difficulty by saying “the ‘soul’ disem¬
bodied only comes through the mediumship of the ‘ soul ’ embodied, his
confrere” So that if the elementary does it, “ Scrutator ” appears to
think that the medium cannot be an (embodied) elementary also. Where
does “ Scrutator ” find it laid down that mediums must be as bad as the
bad spirits, or as good as the good spirits, influencing them, or who,
not necessarily influencing their thoughts or actions, merely use their
mediumship for the production of physical effects ? Such effects do not
suppose, and are not usually accompanied by even the temporary “ con¬
trol ” of the medium during their production. Admitting, therefore, for
the moment, the extraordinary assumption incomprehensibly ascribed
by “ Scrutator ” and “ M.A., Cantab.,” to Colonel Olcott, that only
elementaries and embodied “souls,” which resemble elementaries in
having lost their spirits, can effect physical phenomena, it follows that
only those mediums who produce the phenomena themselves need be
considered in that condition. But the real answer, of course, is that
Colonel Olcott’s conception of the “soul” is radically different from
what your correspondents suppose it to be. Colonel Olcott, in fact,
regards physical phenomena, produced by the “ soul ” or double, as
quite consistent with the purest character, whereas those produced by
elementaries do suppose proximity, and therefore a certain affinity, to
the medium of these spirits. Witness this passage: “ The Katie King of
Miss Florence Cook may have been her own double or soul; in fact, I
am quite sure it could not have been an elementary, since I am
assured that she was a young girl of unblemished character f I do
not like to use Scrutator’s word “ effrontery,” but how otherwise
in the face of this passage (I could quote others, if necessary) are we
to characterise the assertion that Colonel Olcott holds all “souls”
producing physical phenomena (including “ full form presentations ”)
to be in the dire condition suggested ? Where, in any communication
of either Madame Blavatsky or Col. Olcott, does “M.A., Cantab.,” find
the proposition, or anything like, or leading to, or possibly involving the
proposition that “ the astral man, or double or soul,” is “ a soul that has
lost its divine vovc”? “ Scrutator ” quotes from Colonel Olcott what
he calls a “ definition” of the astral man, but which is not a definition,
but an account of the progress of the astral man who has not lost, and
will not lose, his spirit, and of the sinking and ultimate annihilation of
the astral man who has lost it. Colonel Olcott does not expressly
“ define ” the soul or astral body. He says we all have it “ inside the
physical body; ” it is that which is disengaged by the death of the
physical body ; it is simply the “ spiritual body ” which all Spiritualists
believe in. The Theosophists hold that it is sooner or later dissolved,
either by the man having become identified with his divine spirit, the
avyotiSrig,* or, if the man has become identified with his astral body by
loss of all affinity with this spirit, then the dissolution of this astral
body is no less the annihilation of “ the man ”—or, as I ventured to
interpret the teaching, of what is then more properly called the
elementary, since the trinity of man, which must include the spirit, no
longer exists. Madame Blavatsky has defined the “ astral man” in a
passage too long for quotation (Spiritualist, February 8 th), and to that
I must refer those who would like to estimate the care which “ Scrutator ”
and “ M.A., Cantab,” have taken to inform themselves of the opinions
which they make haste to denounce. Madame Blavatsky had in that
letter to deal with the blunder that the astral soul is the spirit. I fear
she will despair of English intelligence when she finds that
the next absurdity ascribed to her is the opposite blunder,
that the soul has no spirit at all! In The Spiritualist of
February 8th, Colonel Olcott says, “ the adept’s astral spirit ”
(soul) “ works with, through, and in perfect accord with either pure
disembodied spirits or his own immortal spirit.” According
to his critics, Colonel Olcott ought to have denied to the adept the
* The aiyoeiSijs is not perhaps to be considered the spirit itself, but the pure, etherial, and
lueiform vehicle of the spirit. This was the opinion of some ancient philosophers. The
Buddhist Nirvana, on the other hand, contemplates the ultimate freedom of spirit from all
embodiment. Upon this subject, the best single book to consult is that great mine of
ancient Theosophy, Cuchoorttis InieUeciual System,
possession of any astral spirit or soul at all, since the adept has not lost
his immortal spirit. But I could multiply extracts indefinitely, which
ought to have saved these gentlemen from the possibility of miscon¬
struing Colonel Olcott as they have done. I have only dwelt so long*
on the subject because “ Scrutator” “ calls particular attention ” to it,
and accuses Colonel Olcott of “ a very slanderous imputation.” It
remains to be seen whether carelessness in bringing the charge is atoned
for by promptitude in acknpwledging its groundlessness. It is certainly
not a light charge, as any one will admit who knows some good, worthy,
and even very noble and high-minded persons, I could name,
who are, or have been, physical mediums. It is only necessary to expose
the mistake which identifies the “ astral man ” with the “ elementary,”
to show the utter inapplicability of all the reasoning by which
“ Scrutator” attempts to involve me in an inconsistency with Colonel
Olcott for suggesting that the spiritless being or elementary, in or out of
the flesh, is no longer “ man ” according to the Theosophic definition of
man as a trinity. But I must notice another “ spoke in our wheel,”
which “ M.A., Cantab,” thinks he has detected in my quotation (March
10th, 1876) from “a very learned occultist.” Because that writer, in
describing the processes of evolution in the lower forms, speaks of all
matter as “ imbued with that vital principle called spirit,” and says that
“each grain of sand, equally with each minutest atom of the human
body, has its inherent latent spark of the Divine light,” this, says
“M.A., Cantab,” is inconsistent with the loss of the spirit by the astral
body, which is itself, at least, matter. If this were so, if the Divine
spirit of man were identical with the principle of life, or with the latent
spark of Divine light in the grain of sand, identical, that is, not only as
affirming their common source, but as negating their differentiation,
then is evolution alike needless and impossible. But this same writer
I quoted says further on—“ When this double evolution has reached a
certain point, it is possible for the third principle to come into union,
that is, the immortal spirit which makes of man a triad,” But if this
ascent was not maintained, and this third principle had departed from
the form no longer fitted for it, the form would return to the condition
it was in before the union, and in its gradual dissolution (which means
not, of course, annihilation, but dispersion of its elements, as in the
case of the physical body) would be destroyed as a form, its component
particles recommencing the process of evolution from the beginning.
The “man” in such case is rightly said to be annihilated, for his
individual consciousness depends, not on the dispersed elements, but on
their combination into an organism through which consciousness can
exist and manifest. So much for this “flat contradiction” between
this writer and our New York friends.
I must return to “ Scrutator,” who speaks of “ this new-fangled and
ill-defined term ‘ elementary,’ not yet two years old.” Has “ Scrutator ”
ever heard of Eliphas Levi, of the “ Count de G-abalis,” or of the
Rosicrucians of the middle ages ? He has evidently not read a line of
their writings, or of what has been written of their doctrines, and of
the terms they used. Let him begin with the Dogme et Rituel de
la Haute Magie, published, I think, about twenty years ago, and
he will find enough about the “ elementaries,” though not always,
I admit, in a well-defined sense, still under that name, to
make him wish, perhaps, that he had not been so ready to
publish his confusion between what he does not know and what does not
exist. I may also refer him to the same work (second edition, Yol. I.,
p. 262-3) for the idea (“ annihilation ”) so “ entirely novel to Europe
and America.” Mr. Maitland, who has, or, at least, at that time had
no relations with the Theosophical Society, gave the same idea as a
revelation received through his “ Seeress,” in his book The Soul, and
How it Found Me, If I do not refer to far older authorities, it is only
because I cannot, at this moment, give chapter and verse of import
wholly free from question, but I have no doubt that the doctrine of
“ potential immortality ” is as old as it is, to my mind, probable and
philosophical. Before talking of our “ effrontery ” in putting forward
(and that even by the way, under a sort of compulsion) opinions which
he dislikes, “ Scrutator” should, at least, ascertain whether ours is the
greater guilt of originating, or the more venial offence of transmitting
these views.
Then there is “ the babe.” Well, I have not committed myself to the
opinion that the spirit only comes to the child at the age of understand¬
ing, though I do conceive that without reason it cannot be manifested.
But, in fact, this part of the teaching of my society was new to me, and
I only referred to it in a former letter, because I believed I had found
what might prove to be historical evidence of its having been an ancient
opinion of the church; and in this I am confirmed by a very competent
authority, as I believe. The child’s early innocence is not to me a
formidable objection. Sheep and oxen are innocent.
“Scrutator” seems to think that all students of Theosophy should
hold identical opinions on these most difficult subjects, and that any
difference amongst them is fatal to the whole teaching. Madame
Blavatsky, expressly disclaims the thorough knowledge of the relations
between spirit, soul, and body, which could alone render such an
unanimity possible; and really the disclaimer, comical as it would
otherwise sound, seems to be necessary. There are expressions in
Colonel Olcott’s letters to you, the meaning of which I do not clearly
perceive—probably my ignorance will be found to be the fault. But,
on the whole, and especially taken in connection with Madame
Blavatsky’s, they seem to me a singularly clear exposition, consider¬
ing the difficulty and unfamiliarity of the subjects, and the requisite
conciseness. I am sorry they have not been more carefully read
by others, who make their own misconceptions the occasion of flying
at him and all who agree with him, with epithets wholly unwarrantable.
C. C. Massey.
Temple, February 24tli, 1878.
Sir,—I cannot resist the impression that at this most important
and critical juncture of occult and theosophical debate, there must be
106 THE SPIRITUALIST. March 1, 1878.
many, with myself, who are not able, by practical inductive means,
to solve the points at issue, namely, those of the existence and
power of elementary beings, the conditional immortality of humanity,
and the wonder-working demonstrations of the human will-power on
the Akasa, of which we read so much. These things I can by no
means verify or see, although favoured with the constant assistance
of one of the most highly and sensitively developed psychics in
Europe. I, therefore, perhaps shall be pardoned by the many more
highly developed advocates of this new and popular phase of the
movement, if I give one word of advice and comfort to still the
torrent of doubt and anxiety pervading the minds of many otherwise
good, simple, pure Spiritualists. Before the improved {sic.) Spirit-
tualism, “ Occultism,’’ sprang up, with, to the majority of ordinary
truth-seekers, its legion of undemonstrable facts, and unproven
theories, the life and teaching of that perhaps best abused of men,
that truly inspired writer, Andrew Jackson Davis, the “Poughkeepsie
Seer,’’ were believed and accepted as being all-sufficient for the needs
or even wants of harmonial philosophers, the majority of whom,
judging from appearances, must, I should think, have “ left their first
love.” Let not such be the case with those, however, who, still
possess a gleam or spark, even though a fading one, of faith in the
grand incontestable, uncontrovertible, truths of our inherited immortal
birth-right, so magnificently proved in that masterpiece of the seer’s
early writings, the third part of The Thinker, fifth volume of The Great
Harmonia, “ The Law of Immortality.” After that they can well
afford, with all due respect, to leave Isis Unveiled, Ghostland, and
even Art Magic, to minds so constituted as to seek shadows “ people
often read about, but very seldom see.” They will not, it is to be
hoped, let the substance and truth of the whole matter slip through
their fingers and their brains. One oe the “Five Hundred.”
8, Northumberland-place, Bath, Feb. 25th, 1878.
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY?
Sir,—In the discussion of astrology which has for some time
been carried on in your admirable paper, I observe that frequent
allusions are made to Za^dkiel (the author of the well known almanack)
as a great authority, and in one letter lately inserted, he is called the
facile princeps of the (so-called) science.
I know very little of astrology, but of the cognate science of astro¬
nomy I do know a little. Now, I have a distinct recollection of having
seen in a number of ZadkieVs Almanack, some eight or ten years back,
a statement by Zadkiel, that he distinctly repudiated the ordinary
notion of the earth going round the sun, because it is contrary to the
express declaration of Scripture, and asserting that he could prove
mathematically that the distance of the sun from the earth does not
exceed 360,000 miles.
In the face of such a declaration, I am at a loss to know how any
educated man of the present day can pin his faith on any subject,
scientific or quasi-scientific, to the opinions of Zadkiel. It. B.
Edinburgh, February 23rd, 1878.
MR. CHARLES BLACKBURN’S EXPERIENCES WITH MATERIALISATION MEDIUMS.
Sir,—I have already published that when a medium is in a trance
the form comes forth partly covered and pretty solid ; but if the medium
is conscious the form comes forth all covered and less solid, for the
condition .of the medium is much altered.
At one of my last sittings with Miss Cook, when the Rev. Mr. Colley
and Signor Rondi were present, with dim light, no cabinet, and when I
held both hands of the medium, a white form arose from her tiny feet,
kissed my forehead, and said, “ A kiss through the calico, and not a
block.” I felt a real warm face, as warm as your own. I then said,
“ Will you go to the Venetian blind, where there is more light 1 ” The
form said, “You go and I will follow.” I instantly went, and was
followed by the form, “ Lillie.” I askedMr. Colley to hold both hands
of Miss Cook whilst I did so, which he did. When Lillie and myself
were at the Venetian blind I said, “ Now, Lillie, let me see your face.”
She then uncovered it, and I said I was satisfied ; she returned to her
medium, and with her raiment sank through the floor.
At a subsequent sitting I could get nothing in a cabinet for a whole
hour, except a small white form, which kept occasionally rising from
the floor, and would keep kissing the medium—the conscious medium—
whilst I held her. She said to the form, “You nasty thing, do it to
Mr. Blackburn, for you are so sticky and clammy I don’t like it.” A
voice then said, “ Take the medium out of the cabinet into the next
room, and I will try to form fully there.” I did so, and shortly she
(Lillie) rose up from the floor, veiled, and took the medium to the
Venetian blind, inviting Mr. Rondi to get up and see her face. He did
so, and with his finger felt it was warm, and no mask; in fact, that
form has more recently sat at a table and tasted wine and biscuit, and
vanished.
I finally send you a rough letter for insertion, in further proof of
“ flexible features ” in the forms, which I wrote to my daughter when I
was in London—and, therefore, never intended for publication—which
ought to settle all doubts; for it was with an unimpeachable medium
who belongs to your own Association, viz., Mr. Eglinton. I wrote it
when I was at the Viaduct Hotel, Holborn, Loudon. Truth, you
know, is ail my aim, whatever may be the cost—as all are benefactors
but myself in this cause :—
My Dear Eliza,—After my arrival here on Saturday, I went to Signor
Itondi’s, and had a stance there at three o’clock. Dr. Nicholls, Mrs. and Miss
Cook, myself, and Mr. Rondi were all present; and an excellent sitting it was,
though it took a long time to gather power. A green baize curtain across a
corner of brick walls was all the cabinet; we had a dim light. Eglinton went
into a trance in the cabinet in a chair, and came out in trance amongst us;
.then gathered power from each of us in mesmeric fashion, and threw it all
j) j from himself into the cabinet; he then staggered into his chair and sank into
| {( a deeper trance. “ Joey,” the spirit, shouted, “ Mr. Blackburn ! Glad to see
! (j you! I can go on now Shortly, he asked each one separately to come and
j) i look at, and touch, an illuminated amber-coloured crucifix, floating about; I
j/i got him to put it to the medium’s face, he did so, and his (Eglinton’s)
i(j mouth was open, he (Eglinton) being in a deep sleep, with both his hands on
Hjjl his lap: he was meaning heavily. Next a female in white appeared, but
ill could not stay a minute, though she was plainly seen. “ Joey ” shouted that
i (| she was only developing, but he would send “ Abdullah ” out. “ Abdullah ”
: j (j came, and was a head taller than the medium, and with only one arm ; he
j (| walked about and bowed in Persian fashion, and put his face several times
jyi close to mine; our noses were not.two inches apart. He tried, but could not
i (1 talk; yet his lips whispered something. His turban had something like
| (; diamonds in it; his nose was rather aquiline, but thin, and his eyes dark and
!)! very piercing ; he had moustachios, and a totally different expression of face
|) | from fat-nosed, smooth-faced, Eglinton. As “ Abdullah ” retired from me
!) i into the cabinet Eglinton had difficulty in passing him, for they jostled
| (I together to get out of the cabinet to again gather power from all of us; so we
J | all saw the two faces and forms at the same instant. When Eglinton again
| j returned to his chair moaning heavily, the large form instantly reappeared,
j i and came up to me, Eglinton creaking in his chair, and awfully moaning at
(| that moment. The form retired from me to the curtain, and gradually disap-
11 peared through the floor, in view of all, leaving a mass of calico on the floor,
/ j when up sprang through that calico another form, viz., the controller “ Joey,”
(j who sat down and showed us how, by waving it, he could extend the calico
(| several yards. He did so, and drew it in again, when he and the calico all
)! vanished, on his saying “ good bye;” so I then suddenly opened the curtain,
)! but no calico or spirit was there, only Eglinton, asleep in his chair. I carefully
(I woke him up. “Joey,” speaking whilst I was doing it, said, “ Don’t do it
\ | hastily. Good stance, and I’ll always do it if I can for you.”
) j Charles Blackburn.
MATERIALISATION MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—In The Spiritualist of the week before last, under the head of
| “ New Materialisation Phenomena,” the writer says:—
I With Miss K. Gook forms develops on and arise from the bare carpet, in
| the presence of several persons, while her hands are held; but these forms
| have not yet presented living features, to the gaze of the observers. But
during the other class of manifestation, when Lillie Gordon, who resembles
I the medium, has been well in view of all the circle, the features of the
j medium have not been clearly under the observation of all the sitters at
I the same time.
I Having attended Miss Cook’s seances regularly twice a week for the
; last ten months, I have twice had opportunity of seeing the form of
Lillie Gordon as it was evolved from behind the medium. In both cases
the face was uncovered, and I spoke to her, and felt her hands and feet.
| Standing close by Miss Cook, and holding her hands, I have seen the
j faces of both medium and spirit form, and I remarked that the latter
was as white as marble. At another seance in my rooms, a fortnight
ago, while Miss Cook was out of the cabinet, the materialised
I form went close to the Rev. T. Colley, four or five paces away from the
| medium. He took hold of the spirit’s hands, and conversed freely with
! both medium and spirit at the same time. Last Tuesday, sitting near
Miss Cook and conversing with her, I distinctly perceived the spirit
emanate from the floor close to her feet; when fully developed, I asked
| the spirit (not of Miss Cook, as she was speaking with me at the time,
j but the spirit of Lillie Gordon) to go with the medium near the window.
) In obedience to my request, the spirit and medium moved and walked
together, and stood close to the Venetian blinds facing each other. Being
I then too far away from them, I asked permission to be allowed to go
near the window, so as to enable me to see both faces. Having received
| an affirmative answer, I sought the most convenient and favourable place,
two paces from them, and observed the fully materialised form kiss Miss
Cook with her face uncovered, and Miss Cook speaking with Lillie. The
| form sank and rose again several times. Miss Cook being tired, she sat
I on the sofa, which was close by her, two minutes or so; Lillie turned
I round, walked close to me, shook hands, gave me a kiss on my fore-
j head, and, wishing me “ good night,” returned towards the medium and
disappeared. If this does not show flexibility of features, I must confess
j that I do not understand what flexibility is. E. Rondi.
| Montague Place, London, February 18th.
WILL-POWER.
Sir,—In your impression of the 15th February there appears an
article by Miss Kislingbury, in which she expresses her conviction that
! certain phenomena were produced by her “ will-power.” I am afraid
that she is under a misapprehension. As she did not resort to the aid
of clairvoyance in testing the origin of the manifestations to which she
] alludes, she can scarcely be considered authorised to utter an advanced
opinion on the subject.
With the assistance of a very developed clairvoyant, I have carefully
investigated phenomena which were assumed to be the results of “ will-
| power,” and in every case I discovered that a disembodied spirit, who
! could be clearly identified, was present and co-operating with the per¬
formers, influenced their wills without their being aware of it, accom¬
plished the purpose which was intended, and inspired their minds with
ideas which were superficially supposed to be the product of their own
powers of thought.
Miss Kislingbury thinks that Theosophy was needed to explain the
mysteries and difficulties of Spiritualism. If so, the new system has
been very unsuccessful in its mission; it has produced as much con¬
fusion and nonsense as it has dispersed.
In preference to Theosophy, I would recommend, in its highest and
simplest acceptation, Christianity ; which, if devoutly tried, will prove
to be an invaluable guide through every puzzling problem which Spirit-
. ualism can possibly raise. Theodore Ellis.
Lambeth, Feb. 23rd, 1875.
March 1, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
107
REMARKABLE MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA. j
MRS. PICKERING’S MEDIUMSHIP. j )
Within the last three months a decided advance in the j j
evolution of materialisation phenomena appears to have been j 5
made through mediums in all parts of the world. In London i |
we have seen materialised spirits appear frequently of late, |)
through the mediumship of Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, and 11
Mr. Eglinton, in the open circle while their hands were held, j j
and without the use of a cabinet. Further, in Miss Cook’s ||
case, we have witnessed the process of the formation of n
spirits whilst holding her hands ; white clouds both formed |
upon the floor, and fell from her side to the floor, and con- |
densed into a form covered with drapery, which rose from j
the bare carpet close to our feet. j
In the United States equally great advances have been 11
made, and at the present time much attention is concen- | j
trated upon the stances of Mrs. John R. Pickering, of j
Rochester, N.H. Of the various accounts which have been n
printed, that by the editor of The Voice of Truth (Mem- I [
phis, U.S.), February 9th, 1878, is one of the best, so we j
quote it as follows :— j
Having been invited to be present at an assembly at j
Rochester, last Thursday night, with the privilege of inviting j
four others, we accepted the invitation. The four persons |
accompanying us were Mr. and Mrs. Edmund Gage, and !
Mr. and Mrs. J. Merrill Ordway, of this city. The persons j
met at Rochester were Mr. and Mrs. Pickering, Deacon |
Micajah B. Wentworth, Mr. and Mrs. William Wentworth, j
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Goodrich, Mr. and Mrs. John Horney, |
Miss Emma Wentworth, and Mrs. Waterhouse, all of j
Rochester, and Mrs. Varney, of Waltham. I
We had many times before attended materialising mani- j
festations there, but in the recess there had been an advance j
made, and much change brought about. We found the |
cabinet had been discarded, and the essential darkness pro- I
vided by placing a curtain across one corner of the room, j
canopying the space with a black covering, thus creating a j j
condition of perfect darkness in a corner measuring four feet ! <
in the long angle, and three in depth to the corner of the j!
room joining the other two sides of the angle. This j ]
curtain and the space enclosed were subjected to the most j1
rigid inspection, and there was not a single article of furni- j!
ture, or drapery, or clothing of any kind whatever, within j |
them.
At a few minutes before eight o’clock, Mrs. Pickering, I'
the medium, took her seat near to the curtain, but outside j I
of it, and in full view of those present, with no covering or |
protection from the light except a piece of white lace curtain j
material so arranged as to drop down over her eyes in order I
to somewhat cut off the light, and to enable her, as she said,
to go to sleep quicker. The party all knew there was j
nothing inside the curtain but the solid walls of the house, j
They saw Mrs. Pickering take her seat outside the curtain ;
the saw her sitting there, watched the occasional movements
of her hands and feet; her slight coughing, heard an occa¬
sional moan from her, and saw her rise from her seat as she !
came out of her entranced condition. Every one present |
knew Mrs. Pickering to be in clear view of them, as above
described, during every moment of the three hours in which j
the manifestations were taking place.
Mrs. Waterhouse, unorthodox lady, presided at the piano, j
singing the familiar, sweet devotional hymns in common j
use at conference and revival meetings. This continued for I
fifteen or twenty minutes, or till the medium was fully en- |
tranced or asleep. At the expiration of that time the mani- |
festations commenced.
The first sign of anything inside the curtain was the
appearance of a face at the aperture in it. Very soon a I
female form, dressed in white, parted the curtain and
walked out into the room three times in succession. She j
was followed by another form, unmistakably a female, in j
stage costume, and personifying a page. She was dressed in
fancy costume, with striped stockings and slippers respond- j
ing to lively music in a brief dance. The next was the form
of a pretty tall, large-framed woman, with marked features,
quite old and wrinkled. She appeared three times, and on
her first appearance pointed out the writer of this article as
one she knew. The name of the person she so strongly re¬
sembled as to suggest it, was spoken, and she acknowledged
it to be correct by bowing her head.
The fourth was the form of a tall and stout man, partially
dressed in dark clothing. The next was the tall and sym¬
metrical form of an Indian, calling himself Dr. Williams,
and said to be the guide of the medium. He was dressed
in dark clothing, had upon his head a cap with feathers a
foot in length. He walked out into the room five or six
times, stood by a table, and by the piano, and at one time
made a special clatter with his feet upon the floor to show
that there was substance in him. Following him were a
succession of male and female forms of different sizes, with
different colours of hair, and of varying costume, and there
were also youths and little children. At one time three
forms appeared at once; one a female which came out into
the room, another smaller in stature, stood at the opening
of the curtain, and a child at her side.
Another presentation was a female form walking out into
the room, leaving standing at the opening another female
holding out a child. Still another and most impressive
presentation was a female who walked out into the room,
when a little tottling child followed her, holding on to her
dress.
Another form was that of a female, tall and slender, with
lightish hair, which she made great effort to have noticed.
She accepted the name of Anna Griffith Burbank, of Grove-
land, and her friend believed it to be she. A chain made
of her own hair was worn by her friend, Mrs. Gage; this
was taken and laid upon the table, and the form took it up,
holding it in comparison with her own hair, and calling the
close attention of Mr. Goodrich to it. Another very comely
female appeared with long black hair hanging down each
side of her face, and, turning round, displayed a luxuriant
growth hanging down her back on the groundwork of spot¬
less white. The form bore in her hand a white scarf, be¬
spangled with stars, which she carelessly drew through her
hands, and then put upon her head, where it remained until
she disappeared. This was a very beautiful sight. Another
female form, with quite light hair, walked out to the table,
and up to the looking-glass, where she took a view of her¬
self, and, after promising to come at a future time, and allow
her photograph to be taken, she retired. Late in the evening
the form of Julia Wentworth, which we have frequently seen
before, came out, with her lithe and hurried tread, and cor¬
dially and affectionately greeted her father and mother,
speaking to them in whispers which were distinctly heard
by all of us. This was a scene of interest and emotion not
to be forgotten.
In addition, several male forms came out with clearness
and force; among them were Freeman Whitehouse, formerly
of the Whitehouse minstrels, who was quickly and em¬
phatically recognised by several of the Rochester people,
and by Mrs. Varney, of Waltham. Another was the form of
a man who claimed to be formerly of this city. His form
and general appearance answered the requirements. The
thing halted at was the appearance of his beard, but as we
have since seen a photograph of him, when in full beard,
that point is very well settled. In connection with this it
may properly be stated that we were in what purported to
be communication with him two weeks previously, when he
promised to go to Rochester and try to show himself. On
that very night, between nine and ten o’clock, by previous
arrangement he was supposed to be communicated with in
this city, and said he would meet us at Rochester imme¬
diately. What claimed to be him made his appearance there
about ten o’clock. These are the leading incidents of this
most remarkable and intensely interesting evening. The
duration of the seance was more than three hours ; twenty-
two different forms appeared ; and during the time, bear in
mind, the medium was outside the curtain, under the close
scrutiny of all whose names have been given above.
One noticeable thing in connection with this seance was
the light behind the curtain. There could be no light
shining into it, because the lamp was so situated as to cast
a subdued and mellow light, sufficient to distinguish and
recognise persons and see any object in the room. Under
108
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March 1, 1878,
these circumstances there was a light inside the cabinet (
of a phosphorescent hue so luminous that when the curtain |
opened the naked walls of the room were seen, while i
everything inside appeared generally luminous. We could ]
not help thinking of the “ wakening light ” of Abou Ben j i
Adhem. I j
We have been a frequent observer of these things for !
about a year, and have seen them under varying circum- I
stances. Mrs. Pickering has on former occasions, when I
sitting in a cabinet, been repeatedly examined by committees ;
of ladies to discover materials for the performance of a ||
trick; we have repeatedly enveloped her in a sack with test ) j
tying of our own; we have repeatedly examined and sealed |
the cabinet to guard against confederates, and still the same |
manifestations went on, only varying in power and interest j
in proportion as the elements present were harmonious or j
otherwise. We were there with the critical “ committee of j j
ten;” we were there with the much smaller number of I
scientific men oppressed with a burden of doubt and fear of i
being humbugged, and we have been there when the j
elements were confident and harmonious, and have critically \
watched the varying conditions and results. The last occa- !
sion is the crowning one, and has placed the whole thing, in j
the minds of those present, beyond the reach of doubt and j |
infidel cavil of any and every type. Whatever any man or s j
woman may have thought, or may now think of what they j j
have seen at Mrs. Pickering’s on any former occasion, we jjj
feel warranted in saying to them that there has never been
any sham there, and that whatever has been witnessed was I
real. With Mrs. Pickering we find a devotion to facts, and
when able to do so she sits outside the curtain, although it |
is a more severe strain upon her powers than to sit inside.
HAUNTED HOUSES. I
BY HENBY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OF “ LETTERS TO MISS MARTINEAU.”
I still feel a great fascination towards haunted houses.
When first inquiring into the phenomena of what is called |
Spiritualism with the late Robert Chambers, our first idea |
was to advertise for haunted houses, and we did so; but I
nothing satisfactory came of it. In respect to Lady j
Farquhar’s Old Lady,” printed in the last Spiritualist, I think
that, notwithstanding all we know of Spiritualism, the j
chances are a hundred to one in favour of the appearance
being a mere vision—just, as it were, a fragment of a
waking dream. Yet, after all, the dress is an amazing diffi¬
culty in such apparitions. A figure losing itself at the end j
of a passage is very frequent in such stories, and the im¬
pression of the sister passing before her into a room at the ; j
end of the passage, might remain with a susceptible person, j j
and become embodied as another person, and as in a dream, j j
with all the appearance, reality, and exact particulars, as j j
related.
I could relate facts in favour of this theory to bear me |
out. Then again the passage was but ((several yards in j
length,” so that the appearance must have been close upon j
the retiring figure of the sister. With respect to the second j j
appearance, there is a tendency in such states to repeat |
themselves, and we are left to imagine whether the figure |
was still there or not, when the seer looked up again. The I
natural thing would have been to call out, or to ring the I,
bell. Then, the paralysed state the observer was in looks i
very like some peculiar abnormal condition—I suspect j!
the figure was as much a ghost as the dagger in Macbeth j
passing before the king along the passage in the direction he j
was going.
With regard to the repetition of such appearances, a friend |
of mine, a lady, in bed after her confinement, weak, but I
without fever or being ill in any other sense, would see j
distinctly each day for several days a snake crawl up the I
small table near to her bed, and sip from the glass of drink I
that was there. My old friend, Mrs. Basil Montagu, would I
continually seem to see an empty arm-chair in the same j
place, and she would pass her hand through it. After Miss 111
Martineau’s six years’ confinement, and subsequent cure by jjj
mesmerism, she was frequently mesmerised, but never went j j |
to sleep, never lost consciousness, yet every time would have j j j
a perfectly life-like vision of her own death and of the per- jjj
(j sons present. So vivid was it that I found it impossible to
jj convince her that it was not a real presentiment; and not
[I until one of the persons supposed to be present died, could
j I shake her belief. You read in the autobiography how
! gratefully she expresses herself for what I did for her in
[I this matter, or she might have become very silly, if not
! j insane. I only give the case here as another instance of a
; j vision repeated, and a more striking one cannot be imagined.
Now in any such statement as that of Lady Farquhar,
j some account should be given of the life and peculiarities
j of constitution of the seer, and we must remember how
I in such relations people are apt to exaggerate, and, as it
were, make the account or picture more complete than was
j the actual occurrence.
I do not like to take the “ shine” out of a good story, but as
j real inquirers and men of science, our effort should be to re-
j duce marvels into plain things—not to inflate plain things
j into marvels. Such was Bacon’s admonition in respect to
j these very matters. If these seers and the mediums were
j mesmerised and made waking somnambules and clairvoyants
! much would come of it as to the source and nature of many
j of the phenomena in question. In the fact of all perception
being visionary, the marvel is that we are not often deceived
by false appearances as in our dreams, and the quotation
from Shakspeare, about soul and brain, is from Rickard II.,
when seeing double.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.
AN EARLY ENGLISH SEANCE.
BY JOSEPH RHODES BUCHANAN, M.D.
In the spring of 1852 Mrs. Hayden was at the Earl of
Zetland’s holding a stance, at, which were present the
Marchioness of Hastings (with her two daughters), the Duke
of Argyle, the Duchess of Sutherland, Mrs. Catherine
Crowe, authoress of the Night Side of Nature, Lady Zetland,
and about ten others. They were seated round the table,
when the spirits requested that the lights should be removed
into the two adjoining apartments on each side, and that
Lady Hastings should hold the pencil. This being done, a
strange and beautiful halo of indescribable delicacy began
to appear above the hand of Lady Hastings. Lady Zetland
first remarked : il Don’t you see a light around Lady Hast¬
ing’s hand ?” Then it became more fully developed, and
one and another observed it till it was seen by all.
An observer took a sheet of paper, which he held above
the hand, and the halo appeared above it. When this halo
was completely organised and at rest, her hand began to
write—the light from the halo being sufficient to read the
writing. It proved to be a letter from Lord Hastings, ad¬
dressed to “ My Dear Wife,” expressing his gratification
that she was investigating Spiritualism, his happiness in
meeting her, and how much he was with her. He said that
her two daughters, Lady Bertha and Lady Edith, were
mediums, and that if they would sit for it, he would come to
them at her own home. This was done, and he came and
wrote for them on many occasions.
In his letter at the Earl of Zetland’s, he spoke of Capt,
Yelverton, the second husband of Lady Hastings, saying
that he had failed to find Sir John Franklin, and that he
had just left (name not recollected), which was after¬
wards found to be true by the coincidence of dates. The
letter of Lord Hastings occupied a space equivalent to two
pages of foolscap, and was written on common printing
paper, the hand of Lady Hastings being in a benumbed
condition while controlled in writing.—Banner of Light
{Boston, U.S.), Jan. Wth, 1878.
Mr. Lawrence Oliphant, late M.P. for the Stirling Boroughs, and
Paris correspondent of the Times, has rejoined the Spiritualistic com¬
munity of Mr. Thomas Lake Harris in America, and is now there with
Mrs. Oliphant.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Our new subscribers in the United States who have begun to take in TfieSpirit¬
ualist this month, are informed that last month’s numbers to make the
volume complete are obtainable if wanted, and may be ordered through
Messrs. Colby and Rich, of Boston. These American subscribers are re¬
quested to call the attention of their acquaintances to this journal, which is
an oi'gan for international communication among educated Spiritualists.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 1, 1878.
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALIS.M, by Eugene Crowell. M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn ifrom
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. Od.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. fid.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging ‘the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York. US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,’.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by .the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
xeving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit’ and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Qld Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itseli down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the msdiumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, hut these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe. is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, IDs. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
' By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Ru3sell_Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book censists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Hddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiratu n-
ally through the mediumshio of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testunony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s'. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. fid.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid»
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature's Divine Revelations . . • , . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . ..76
The Teacher. ,, II. ,, . . • .76
The Seer. „ III. ,, , , * .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis . , .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
ApproachingCrisis;or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . ,36
Harbinger of Health , . . . , . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . • . .86
Penetralia; Containing Harmomal Answers -. . .70
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and N erves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . .30
Morning Lectures , , , . . , .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
i di
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . ..., , • , 21 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spirituaiist Newspaper . . 2 *
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . ..60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing m
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 a.d. and 518 a.b.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A- Trim Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by. the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind!; or. A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D.,'LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, MD. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . ... . . . . IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously "Witnessed by the Authoe and Otheb
Obsekvebs in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messes. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to t£
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion dow inon-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove-that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
'Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—SbufA Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.fl,
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for la., post free, or 500for la. tod., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive tho information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors, or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’ *
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price fid., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March 1, 1878,
A new ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATTIRE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
XORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
• day that “the health of the people Is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
. For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each hottle of
ENG'S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
• ■ HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use END’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples -on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Menta 1 Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
ENO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
I “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
tV’HAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
Es the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
In which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
p roper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
p raise.   
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
i s particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus ot itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
f the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease :—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all myjfriends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. — I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett.”
Aug. 80, 1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
/CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—End’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt)
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book, of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
’ Contents.
Part l.—Miscellaneous Poems and, Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—0. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to AH Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—1C. Wirbel-bemegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobhlejaro Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads.—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.,.. Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits Is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others In prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
a From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
ail of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will he sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover. ... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
Fnorn The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.” ■ i
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of fthe Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ * It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic Uterature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious coileotion of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those^ merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.” *
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of- the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a ghort time ago,
ana which created such a furore at the time.” \N.B. An
irejt member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of Folkestone to'the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
] matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is "bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7S. 6d., post free, at the PubUshing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the Ipte "Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 2ls. Copies may also he had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy—Community of Sensations; of
.Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid's Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S liritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom-
qna—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
- and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER lxAction of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination j Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Iteading—Lucid Vision—
Odylie Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjecte—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^-Opposibion to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the,Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H.- Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Aye
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
Sole Agent for Paris—FHARMACIE DE BERAL, 1 RUE DE
LA PAIX,
