Ee&isteeed as a Newspaper
sk® joifs(x^i< oi<oG[iciai< ^di-^yr-c^.
#lb.esf It^ixispapr muTM^b- foHIj in ^tmi §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : ti, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246. Boule
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 3IQ, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 345. (VOL. XIV.—No. 14.) LONDON: FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1879. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
dTcmtetus,
Household Disturbances by Spirits   ... 157
The Value of Spirit Teaching. By Louisa Andrews 158
Powers of Memory. By Christian Beimers 159
Forest Fancies. (Poetry.) IfiO
Spiritualism in Lancashire and Elsewhere  160
Mesmerism     161
Curious Religious Notions ...  161
Psychology in Cambridge   162
The “ White Lady ” of Berlin  162
Music “ Beaten Out.” By J. A. Campbell. (Poetry.) 162
The Religious Aspects of Spiritualism. By Isabel De
Steiger...   163
Magic    .'. ... 164
A Symbolical Dream  165
The Secret of the Logos. By G. Wiese 166
Spontaneous Psychological Phenomena. By Eliza Boucher 166
A Daily Paper Telling the Truth about Spiritualism 167
Mirror Worship in Japan    .168
To Correspondents 168
Paragraphs:—Capital Punishment, 159; “Passed to the
Higher Life, 162; Curious Coincidence, 162; A
Spiritualistic Reception, 163; Sunday Services at the
Cavendish Booms, 163 ; A Visit to the Dead, 167 ; A
Defender of the Church, 167 ; M. Pierart  167
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record oj the Progress of the Science mid Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has. up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess or
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirchinck-Holmfeld (Holstein): Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal: Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.): Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksaitof. Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelina Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy. Barrister-
at-Law: Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edln.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India) ;
Mrs. Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason : Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully. M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “Unorthodox London”: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mrs. 8. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. FR.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
nury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson. M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
In the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places:—
London; 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. PauTs-churcbyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio. Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs. Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper BranehOffice, 88, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
KAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC! ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERTS for 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, dec.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Aye Maria-lane, E.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUaALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
OFFICE HOURS.
The Offices of the Association are open between the hours of
2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except Saturday,
when they are open between the hours of 2 p.m. and 6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR APRIL.
Tuesday, Isf.—So’rde Committee at 5 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee at
5.30 p.m.
Friday, 4th.—Seance Committee at 6.30 p.m.
„ ,, and succeeding Fridays (except Friday,
11th. — Experimental Research Com¬
mittee at 7 p.m.
Monday,!th.—General Purposes Committee at 4.30 p.m.
Fortnigh'ly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Paper by Mr. Morell Theobald, “ Experi¬
ences in the Home Circle, No. II.”
Tuesday, 8th.—Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Monday, 21s#.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Paper by the Rev. W. Miall “ On
Exoteric Observations on Spiritualism.”
Wednesday, 80th.—Soiree at 38,JGreat Russell- street. Music,
Conversation, and Refreshments. Open
to members and friends. Admission, Is.
EASTER CLOSING.
The Rooms at 38. Great Russell-street, will close on Thursday
evening, April 10th, and will re-open on Tuesday, April 15th.
C. A. BURKE, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-road, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &e., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
J. W. FLETCHER,
AT
STEINWAY HALL,
Lower Seymour-slreet, Portman-square.
Cavendish Rooms being too small to accommodate the
number of people desirous of hearing Mr. Fletcher’s Lectures,
he has secured the above named Hall for one year, and will
commence his Lectures thereon Sunday, April 6th, at 7.30 p.m.
Admission free, as before, but as many prefer having seats of
their own, they can be obtained of Miss C. Leslie-Younge, 32,
Fairfax-road, N. W., or of Mr. Fletcher at tha Hall. Price of
secured seats, one guinea and ten shillings per quarter,
according to location. Single admission, reserved seat, 2s. 6d.
The Religion op Spiritualism.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will LECTURE
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
At the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, W.
Admission Free.
Lecture begins at 7.30. Doors closed at 7.45.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following Engagements:—Hastings. Gensing Hall,
Afternoon and Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial
Society, February 4. Plymouth Mechanics’ Institute, February
12 (second time this season). Redruth Institution, February
13 Truro Institution, February 14 (second time this season).
Leamington Institute, February 25. Finchley (Church end),
February 27. Croydon Literary Institution, March 6 (second
time). Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-
street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
March 12th, April 9th, May 14tb, June 11th. Tickets 5s., 3s.,
2s, and Is.
N.B —The Second Recitation of the Series will be given on
Friday, February 28, instead of Ash Wednesday, February 26.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological s -ience in all its branches Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are ’nvited by the Committee
of inquiry who bold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars mavbe obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120fcta thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEH AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
  Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co. London 
ASTROLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT
BRITAIN.
Founded Fehniary 19#A, 1879.
The Committee invite ladies and gentlemen who take an
interest in Astrology to join the above-named Society. As
soon as the funds of the Society shall permit, a Journal will
be published, and papers read at the meetings of the Society
will be printed, subject to the approval of the Committee. By
this means each member will he made conversant with the
scientific experience of hundreds of experts. Terms of mem¬
bership may he had of the Hon. Sec.. Alfred J. Pearce-, 3,
Cedars-terrace, Queen’s road, South Lambeth, London, S.W.
BRITISH NATIONAL-ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislinghury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kislmgbury’s Paper.
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mr. Calder, “ The New Era.”
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “ Experiences in the Home
Circle,” No. 2.
April 21.—The Rev. W. Miall, “ Exoteric Observation in Spirit¬
ualism.”
May 5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “ Recent Research i
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May 19 —
June 2.—Mr. G. F. Green, “ Spiritualism and its Teachings, in
their relation to Problems of Government.”
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “Review of the Session.
JAMES MALTRY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything qf the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N,W
EVERYBODY HI8 OWN PRINTER
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can e«sily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation
besides saving you time and numey
Press, including Type and all accessories, Jrom £5.
C. BQUTNTxNl & Co.
Show Rooms:—a LudgateCircus Buildings,London, F.C.
Rend for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged histo-v of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, Ac.. Ac.
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southamptnn-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange. Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application,
 FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
TUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION
J 64, Berners-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7, Closed on Saturdays.
THE SPIRITUALIST
ii
April 4, 1879.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 18^3.)
President.
Alex. Cai'Aer, Esq., 1, Hereford-sqnare. South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents
C.rtlemoni Beniamin, 1 Bernard-villas, TTnoer Norwood.
Fte-rter-'i'i'1 Mrs . 19. Camb'-idare-street, Byde-nark. W.
Fitz-Gera'd’, Desmond M.s.Tel.E., 6. Akerman-road, Biixton,
S.W '
Hor'Twood UTrs.. 52, Wai'wick-souare. S.W.
Jewken. Henrr T>., Rarrister-at-Law. Goldsmith-build-
inasF.C
Roto E. Dowson, Rnsp-vil'a. Chnreb-end. Fine-llley,' N.
Sneer Rtnnbone 9'emnieman;M D.,Douglas House. 18. Alexandra-
' road. Soutli Hampstead, N.W
Wyld, Geo., M.l>., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belner.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange. Newcastlc-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann s-square. Manchester
Bonw’ick, J., F.R.G.S.. Vale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Cnapman, John. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “.Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 5, Povtman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
E^mands, T. H . 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tuftiell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C-, Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton.R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham. Manchester.
FHz. Gerald, Mrs. D. G-, fi. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Olendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
• Green, O. F-. Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill. Kent.
Havle. Tims.. M n.. The Crescent, Rochdale
Houghton. Mis« °o D/.iom-rp-e-pseent. Wpsthnnrne-square, W.
Hunt. Mis ■ Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Islram, Sir Charli s, Bart Laniport-hall. Northampton.
L' mnnf, John. 199. i ondon-road. Liverpool.
MaltbV. Mrs.. 91, Gon er-treet, W.C.
Maroli, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Ml all. Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J J, F'm Trpp-terraee Uttoxetur-road. Derby.
Moses. Rev. W. Stainton. M.A.. Hnlversity College, N W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, 'Blundell Sands, near
Liv< rpool
Pean e, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15. Harnnr-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C„ 8 Bland ford-square, NW.
Rein-ers. Christian, 47, Mornington-road Regent’s-park.
Stork, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford
Theobald, Morel'. 62. GvanviUe-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Clsverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meauwood Grange, Leed").
Wilson, D. H„ M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, SW.
Wriseman, Mrs., 1, Onne-square, Bayswater, W.
Wlthall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, SW.
Withal], IL, 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Rorm'ary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, SW_
Auditors.
«L W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Secretary.
Miss Burke, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg. Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, KhandeRassim Pacha a BahdldCapouasou,
Constantinople..
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz, hei Potschach, Styria,
via Grntz, Austria.
The Bareness GuMenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colone' Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksnkof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, C, St Petersburg,
flic Baron von Dirckinck-Hohnfe'd, Plnneberg, Holstein.
*1. Gu'tave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hamnionton, A tlantiu Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, H.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. LaTresorerie, Wimille. Borlogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mit.trn, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
lames Myltie. Esq , Beheca, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten. San Francisco, H.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
Tlie Rev. j. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sireet. Carlton, Melbourne
Professor Fne 'rich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilinn Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity. Germany.
W. Llidesay Richardson. M.D., care of Mr w. H. Terry, 84,
Russell -street. Me'bourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
\V. H Terry, F>q., 84. Russell-street South. Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M Leymarie, 6, Ren Neuve dcs Petits Champs, Palais-Roy 1,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
II. T Child Esq , M.D., 684, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A
E. Crowell, Esq , M D., 198. Clinton-avenue. Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq.. M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq.. 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignae, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de 1’Europe,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee. U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq.,9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierrc, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre.Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 187, Schaerbeck, Lez-
BruxeTes.
Lieut -Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs. Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet. Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe. Paris
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
, Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waiaron Edge, Duppas-hill,
. Croydon.
Isaac B Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 178, Rue St. Honore, Parts.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Peath, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epwjes, Hungary,
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgra/ve-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil. Modling, 18, Bruhler-stras&e, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street. Boston.
H. J Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’TTnion Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rite de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forse.her Society,Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 84, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot,
SocIedad^Espirita Central de la Republica Mcxicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarlta.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. For
terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
OYERNMENT PROSECUTIONS FOR
MEDICAL HEREBY: a Verbatim Report of the Case
“ Regina v Tebb.” Dedicated to the Board of St. Paneras
Guardians, London. With letters from the Right Hon. W. E.
Gladstone, M.P., the Right Hon. John Bright. M.P., and others.
Forty pp., Price 2d., or Is. 9d. per dozen, or 12s. per luO. This
pamphlet should be circulated largely during elections of
Guardians and Members of Parliament. Published by Edward
W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may he found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small Svo, price 3s. Gd. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Gd.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Prcia.ce describing the spiritual state op trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision —V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
 XV. Mistress Glen are.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that."—XXIII. Words
o' Cheer.—XXIV. Kesurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin.—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 6s. Gd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM CUB LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 66., paper cover, •* Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price Gd., paper
cover. “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE. COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unseriptural. It shows
(we think successfully) that every form of mediumship, now so
familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of
identical expediences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2, Gd. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These books, consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrowing
parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
mHE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
JL journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world I Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Maas. Ce'by and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Oolby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-message department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, <Sec., <fec. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O,
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours-r-Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 t> 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honore,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
A engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 35, Biurton-road, Clap-
ton-park, E.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, Loudon, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
tb 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MRS. -MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Franklin
gives Seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-squarc,
from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every evening from
8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engagements can be made
by letter sent to the above address.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. Gd. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
flURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
/ ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 ac his residence, 10, Bwkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
ANNIE LOOMIS, previous to withdrawal
from the Profession, can be consulted for one month,
at 2, V-mon-place, Bloomsbury. Hours 12 to 5. Free con¬
sultations to the poor, Saturday.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
II ALIA—Riyista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15ih of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Boglno, No. 23.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
T EAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Li Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen dm ing a twelvemonth's visit to thr
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s
From the Autho , at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
l>RIGHTON.—MISS WOOD, 12, Lower
D Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. — Terms on
application.
TTIOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
JaJ moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can bo
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Homo in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, hoard and all included, £8 per week
each; or. for two persons £2 10s. per week. If two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
sonnerie, Paris.
WANTED.—CHARGE OF CHAMBERS
or Offices, or as Housekeeper in any place of trust,
by a Middle-aged Person. Good references.—Address,
B. E. M., Molly’s, Newsagent, Roman-road, Barnsbury, Isling¬
ton, London.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, James'g-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George's- road.
J[ til mb Jli|it[$ tl
Ko. 345.—Volume Fourteen; Kumber Fou^tee^;
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 4th, 1879.
HOUSEHOLD DISTURBANCES BY SPIRITS.
An ignorant man, who signs himself “An Atheist,” has
written a letter to The Pall Mall Gazette of March 27th,
which will tend to increase the prejudices of the populace
against innocent people. We will now quote his facts, but
omit most of his abuse :—
At Bottesfort, an agricultural village in that county
[Leicestershire], dwell a family of the name of Soulby, the
father and mother living in one cottage, and the son in
another one close adjoining. About a month ago the squire
of the parish, whose house is close to these cottages, on
coming downstairs in the morning was greeted with an
incoherent clamour, in which, however, the words “witches,”
(( possession,” “ spirits,” were plainly audible; and presently
he heard further observations relating to calves’ hearts with
pins stuck into them, drawing blood from the witch, and
other kindred remedies supposed to be of sovereign efficacy
against the powers of darkness. On making further inquiry
this gentleman ascertained that the cottage of the elder
Soulby was “ bewitched; ” and on repairing to the spot
found the windows broken, and the floors torn up, and was
informed that the spirits had done it. The old man assured
him that he had seen a brick rise from the floor, settle “ like
a bird” on the sofa, and then fly through the window; that
a basketful of mangel-wurzel had raised itself from the
floor and knocked its head against the ceiling; that a tin
saucepan had taken flight from the hob, flown through the
window, and, after wheeling about in the air for some time
like a swallow, had returned to the fireside; and that as he
was coming downstairs he had met a large can of water
walking up “ step by step,” and I suppose without spilling
a drop.
With these remarkable depositions in his hands, the
squire’s next step was to communicate with the police, and
found that the rural policeman and himself were agreed as
to the real author of the disturbance. But it was useless to
reason with the people. The manifestations continued ; and
every soul in the neighbourhood, except the vicar, the squire,
their families, the owner of the cottage, and the policeman
aforesaid, believed in their supernatural character. The
squire’s women-servants were insulted, and told “ that
something would happen to them ” because they had not
faith; and the Wesleyan minister called a man an u atheist,”
and threatened to knock him down, because he refused to
see “the finger of God” stretched forth at Bottesford.
Crowds continued to collect round the haunted cottage.
People flocked from a distance to gaze on the witches’ handi¬
work. One Sunday alone nearly 1,500 people were brought
to Bottesford by railway, many of them from Sheffield and
Doncaster; and, as wild talk went on about the proper
mode of dealing with the witch, who was supposed to be
quite well known (“ our old Sail,” as some people in the
crowd were overheard to say), serious apprehensions were at
one time entertained that some violent outrage might occur.
The people were in a frame of mind in which it would have
taken very little to excite them to treat the victim of their
suspicions as the butchers and graziers of Cumberland treat
the unfortunate Madge Wildfire in The Heart of Midlothian.
Another witch, described as an hereditary witch, having in
a spirit of professional curiosity come to view her sister’s
performances, all the bystanders were observed to make the
phallic sign, which is supposed to be a protection against the
evil eye; and my informant says that there are several most
respectable and well-to-do-people in the parish who invari¬
ably make that sign when they pass the witch’s cottage. To
show, further, how prevalent the belief is, and what ludicrous
forms it assumes, the gentleman I have named informs me
that a farmer in the neighbourhood, occupying upwards of
!| 300 acres, went recently to the local newspaper office to
I | insert an advertisement for “ a wise man ” to come and “ take
: j the witchcraft off him.” He had lost several horses and
I r oxen through this evil agency; the witch himself, or, as I
| { suppose we ought to say, the warlock, being a lame old man
! j who turns himself into a black dog and bites cattle. The
farmer says that he has seen this person turn himself from a
man into a dog “ frequently.”
The squire of course remonstrated with these foolish people.
But all he got for his pains was the epithet of “ infidel,”
coupled with the scornful inquiry whether he believed in the
Witch of Endor. For all this time the flying pots and pans,
the walking pitchers, the dancing bricks, were as manifestly
the work of a single human being as if she had been seen to
do them. This was a girl of fourteen—the granddaughter of
the old couple—who was so far possessed, no doubt, as to be
under the influence of that weak and wicked love of notoriety
which has caused so many similar absurdities. The marvels
were never witnessed except when she was in the house.
When she was sent upstairs by herself they immediately
began ; and one day, when my informant himself was
present, and a large box came rolling down the stairs, the
marks of her wet boots were visible on the boards from the
door to where the box stood. But evidence of this kind went
for nothing with the people of Bottesford; to see in “the
finger of God ” only the dirty footsteps of an idle girl was an
! impiety but lightly punished by knocking down—the sum-
! mary mode of dealing with the offence suggested by the pious
i Nonconformist. All disbelievers in the witch were lumped
together as “ atheists,” the laity being encouraged so to do
j by the vigorous and godly language of the minister aforesaid;
| and a prayer-meeting was held in the cottage by a party of
“ Revivalists,” who actually pulled up the brick flooring “ to
| look for the spirits.”
Such occurrences as household disturbances by spirits are
so common that it is high time that the press persecution of
the innocent in relation thereto should cease. Numerous
cases of the kind have been published in this journal during
the last few years, also in The Religio-Philosophical Journal
of Chicago, and The Banner of Light, of Boston, Massachu¬
setts.
Here is another case to which we have already called
attention. It is from the Daily Telegraph of February 4th
[ last:—
“ A correspondent writes:—The little village of Rochford,
near Tenbury Wells, has during the past week been the
| scene of intense excitement, through some extraordinary
1 manifestations ’ that have displayed themselves at the
] house of Mr. Joseph Smith, of New House Farm. Weights
have been removed, cows have been mysteriously untied in
! their sheds, and for several days and nights showers of
j stones fell upon the farmhouse, breaking the various windows
to atoms, and dreadfully alarming the inmates. Stones
descended the kitchen chimney, doors were rattled and
slammed night and day, until the inhabitants came to the
conclusion that the house was bewitched. Two police-officers
were stationed on the premises, and numerous farmers went
in a body to satisfy themselves of the truth of the i manifes¬
tations.’ They found stones bounding and rebounding in all
directions, and the doors and boards of the barn shaking
violently. A boy employed upon the farm (named Rowberry)
was several times knocked down with the stones. This youth
was sent upstairs, when a terrible disturbance was heard
overhead, doors slamming, windows breaking, and a number
of unearthly noises. This youth was at once removed from
the premises, and the inhabitants of New House Farm have
since been at rest from ‘ spiritual manifestations.’ ”
158
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 4, 1879
The Graphic, of March 22nd, records another case as
follows :—
Mr. Edward Soulby, a gentleman advanced in years
(though apparently somewhat backward in some other
respects), asserts that he and his house have been bewitched.
The little village of Bottesford, in North Lincolnshire, is
the place where this remarkable visitation of the Evil One
has occurred. Mr. Soulby’s windows have been broken by
unseen forces, cans of water have gone upstairs proprio motu,
kettles have walked round the kitchen, and, finally, a stone
slab has risen from the floor and hurled itself out of the
window. So, at least, says Mr. Edward Soulby. A girl of
eighteen, Mr. Soulby’s granddaughter, is the only other
resident in this remarkable cottage; but she is protected
from Satanic agencies by wearing round her neck a garland
of green twigs. The pigs and poultry enjoy a similar
immunity, and through a similar precaution being taken.
The whole affair is disquieting, but the county has the con¬
solation of knowing that Mr. E. Peacock, J.P., of Bottes¬
ford Manor, is aroused, and is on the track of the evil
visitant. This gentleman recommends the immediate
removal of the girl, and we hope he will see his own recom¬
mendation carried out.
The Timesx of last Tuesday, contains the following para¬
graph :—
i( An Inhabitant of a West-end Square” writes :—“ May
I ask you to call attention to the following grievance? A
few mornings ago my servant was much frightened by a
violent blow against a large plate-glass drawing-room
window, followed by a shower of glass into the middle of
the room, and had any one been near at hand it would have
been dangerous. This is the third time in a few months
that a similar blow has been experienced, and three large
plate-glass windows on different floors have been broken.
It appears as if some sharp instrument had made in each
case a round hole, and my next door neighbour has suffered
in a similar manner. As the police are unable to offer any
explanation, I appeal to you, sir, to see if any of your
readers can do so.”
Although there is no certainty, the details being so
meagre, that spirits had anything to do with the hole-
punching just mentioned, stone-throwing by spirits before
the eyes of the police is so common that some years ago
Mr. William Howitt wrote a useful little book full of
authenticated cases. Since then, the Irish police at Cooks-
town, near Belfast, were baffled for weeks by violent
disturbances and breakages by spirits, and a boy in the
house frequently had some of his clothes cut into strips by
an invisible power before the eyes of the observers. At
Peckham, a few years ago, stone-thro wing by spirits went
on for days in broad daylight under the eyes of the police.
Scotland-yard was naturally disgusted by the spiritual
theory, so a superior officer” from there exposed the
whole thing by—discovering a boy, some weeks afterwards,
firing off a popgun, or other direful instrument several miles
from Peckham.
In a village near London, in the house of a well-educated
man, who does not want too much publicity, intermittent
spiritual disturbances have been going on for a long time.
They began in this way:—“If you please, Mum,” said the
servant, “ Master Tommy’s bat is a-coming downstairs.”
“What do you mean?’’said the mistress, and in walked
the bat, vertically on end, taking deliberate steps. Mistress
and maid stood upon two chairs to obtain vantage ground
over the walking bat. “ What does this mean ? ” said the
mistress. “ If you please, Mum, I think it’s a swift,” said
the servant; a “ swift,” she explained, being a kind of
lizard, not bird, known in Norfolk, represented in this case
by something dark, trailing at the lower part of the bat.
A pair of tongs was then applied to the tail of the “swift,”
the bat pulled one way the tongs another, and the swift
proved to be a feather,
Afterwards more serious disturbances began, such as the
| smashing of windows and moving of furniture under the
eyes of critical observers. The disturbances have ceased
now for three weeks. These details were given us on the
spot last Saturday, and are well known all over the village.
iTHE VALUE OF SPIRIT TEACHING.*
Br LOUISA ANDREWS.
On this anniversary of the modern influx of spiritual phenomena, we
are naturally led to look back and ask, both for our own satisfaction and
I as an answer to the question so often put by sceptics, what we have
; gained through these revelations—what knowledge, and what moral
i benefit? I have frequently heard objectors declare that returning
spirits have failed to give us any real insight into the future life, and
that, on all points of importance, we are no wiser than before,
j As to the value of these manifestations, in all their varied forms, I
feel that the simple fact of spirit existence and return, once established
and acknowledged, is of inestimable worth. This fact, assuring us of the
! deathless nature of man, is of incalculable value to those (and they are
| many) who would scarce “ have strength to endure for the life of the
| worm and the fly.” When some learned man, who would be our
| spiritual teacher, assures us of the continued existence of the spirit after
it has left the body, how can we know that the doctrine is true ? The
sufficiency of the authority on which his creed is founded is itself a
matter of question among sincere and thinking men, and much
| learning and research are required even for the wise discussion
of the subject. And, after all, can anyone be convinced by logic
| of the soul’s immortality ? It would seem impossible that a firm and
satisfying faith should be based on this foundation. Some believe in
the future life without effort, never asking, because never needing,
| proof; they believe simply because they cannot help it, which, if not
a very intellectual, is, at least, a very unassailable position. Many
think they believe because they have been taught that it is the right
| thing to do, and swallow faith as they would take some medicinal
| draught ordered by a physician in whose skill they trust. To a mul-
| titude of thinking men and women, however, a blind faith is im¬
possible; and since the fact of immortality cannot be proven by
| argument, what escape have they from doubt or denial, unless, some¬
how and somewhere, evidence can be obtained that this belief is well
founded? And where is such evidence to be found? Nowhere—if
I not in Spiritualism. Were nothing revealed to us but this one
! momentous truth, the “ proofs palpable ” establishing it would be in¬
valuable. Then, the vivid realisation of this fact of immortality which
j comes through spirit manifestation; its presentation as an actual, ever-
| present, all-vitalising truth, is so powerful an influence for good, with
all who sincerely desire to rise in the scale of being, that I think it
would not be easy to overstate its worth,
i Not only in hours of exaltation and meditation is this influence seen ;
I not only in the grief of bereavement, or on the near approach of that
| change which so many regard with dread, but in the midst of toilsome
| work, of the petty temptations and irritating annoyances of daily life, is
this influence felt. It is, indeed, when crowded upon by wearisome
| and conflicting cares and duties, and when tempted by the sins which
i most easily beset us, that we have greatest need to be lifted, in spirit,
by the certain assurance and realisation of a life beyond, out of the
| narrow limits of the day and the hour, even while faithfully working
j and struggling in the appointed way. The strongest, most absolute
faith, and the most exalted conceptions of which we are capable,
are not only helpful, but often needful, to the proper performance
j of the humblest duties. Happy indeed are those whose perceptions
and convictions—however derived—open to them a boundless prospect
j beyond the limited horizon of earth, and lift them, in spirit, to those
i mountain-tops of faith where they may breathe a fresher, purer air, and
from which the eternal verities are always visible. Blest is the soul,
whatever its earthly environment, that can thus escape from the dusty
| high-road of life through that gateway of truth which opens on the
infinite. The value of such a faith is not in the luxury of idle medita¬
tion, but in a life vivified and exalted by it; in the power it gives to
drink from eternal fountains novo—for now is life eternal—as truly as in
| that dim future of which, in our present state of being, our conceptions,
at best, must be vague and but partially correct.
| To recur, however, to the statement alluded to before, that we
| are not taught by spirits anything important in relation to life
beyond the grave. It should be remembered that we can, from our
} present standpoint, comprehend only in a very partial and limited
way things appertaining exclusively to another and different state
| of existence ; and the truths which might be intelligible to us we
often refuse to accept, because they do not suit our preconceived ideas,
I and sometimes fail to appreciate, because they appear all too simple and
natural to satisfy the demands of an irrational aud morbid fancy. But
in so far as we can understand the life to come, its nature, and the
relation it bears to this, I should say that, far from our having learned
nothing from returning spirits, we have learned well-nigh everything
which, in our present state of being, we are able to receive and make
use of. I have seen autograph letters, enough to fill a volume, written
by spirits, under strictest test conditions, upon paper untouched by the
medium, and containing descriptions of life, daily life (so to speak) in
the other world, which gave as vivid a conception of existence there as
it seems to me possible for those still in the flesh to form.
It is true that such full and minute descriptions obtained under such
conditions are rare; but none can hold frequent communications with
* An address read last Sunday at the anniversary meeting at the Cavendish Rooms.
London.
April 4, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
159
spirits, seeking seriously and reverently to learn the truth, without
finding that much of the mist and cloud has been cleared away which
had shut from our sight that spiritual but actually existent and most real
world.
Spirits tell us that on entering upon the other life we are neither
lifted into supreme blessedness nor cast down into utter misery. We
are told that we not only build, while here, the house not made with
hands, but mould the very form of the being who is to dwell in it;
Every word, and thought, and feeling indulged in here helps to deter¬
mine what shall be, both in ourselves and our surroundings, there; and
that neither here nor hereafter is there any possible escape from the
natural law of inevitable result. We are taught that sin cannot be
wiped out by forgiveness, any more than poison can be made whole¬
some and nourishing, or its ill effect averted by repentance for having
swallowed it. A man cannot flee from his own shadow; nothing can
save us from ourselves; and we are now making that deathless self
either fair or foul, exalted or degraded. As is the character we form
here, so shall be, in delightsomeness or desolation, our home in that
many-mansioned abode where, day by day, we are preparing a place
for ourselves, whether we know it or not. We are taught that always—
in the past as now, here and hereafter—the great creative and sustaining
Spirit acts through laws which are all-sufficing, and which never need
nor can be broken. No spirit, that I am aware of, has spoken of
a God visible to the angels, sitting like a King upon a great
white throne, and delighting to be glorified by ceaseless hallelujahs and
psalms of praise; and they do tell us of an infinite, all-vitalising
power; the great central Sun and Fountain of all universes, material
and spiritual, whose emanations are forces essential to the existence
of everything that is—to the brain that thinks and the heart that
loves, to the worlds that revolve in space, to every grain of dust and every
blade of grass. They teach us, too, that the acceptable worship of such
a Being must be a worship which exalts and ennobles the worshipper.
A life of steadfast, upward striving, a heart of tender, helpful sympathy
for the weak and the erring, good deeds bravely done, suffering patiently
endured, fidelity to truth, and cheerful obedience to divine law ; this is
worship worthy of our giving and of His receiving. And let none dream
that this idea of the great eternal unity brings to the heart no warmth
or comfort because it fails to picture a Deity “ so definitely that man’s
doubt grows self-defined the other side the line.” No, this is not so,
for now, and hereafter (only then as we trust with a fuller realisation of
its truth) we can say in fullest trust, “ Speak toHim thou, for He hears,
and spirit with spirit can meet. Closer is He than breathing, and
nearer than hands and feet.”
In telling us of the life beyond the grave, the spirits assure us that
we shall there meet and recognise and love the dear ones from whom
death only seems to part us here, being bound together in families
and societies. We are told that our existence hereafter will be one
of progress in knowledge, as well as in virtue ; of earnest congenial
icork—in a word, a life of rational human activity and enjoyment:
enjoyment, at least, for all to whom such joy is possible; and as none
are wholly evil, we trust and believe that none will continue to be
utterly miserable; but that ignorance, intellectual and moral, being
the road of sin, all will, as they learn to understand and appreciate
goodness and truth, become receptive of happiness, in a measure
exactly commensurate with the greater or less purity and elevation to
which they have attained. Also, are we not constantly assured of
the ministering love and guardianship of those gone before; and
although this, too, can only act upon us through laws which
necessarily limit the power of all created beings, still, must not the
knowledge of this ever-present, watchful affection, be a ceaseless joy
to all who are striving to do right, as well as a blessed restraint of
which no one who really believes this truth can ever become uncon¬
scious ? When we know that by no secretive effort can we hide our
sins from loving eyes, which even yet may weep because of our wrong¬
doing, surely such knowledge cannot but help us to keep our lives and
our hearts pure ! But is it not dreadful, some will say, to think that
they should weep whom we have learned to regard as having “ done
with tears?” Truest thoughts are not always those which, super¬
ficially considered, are most cheering and delightful; but can we not
understand that, instead of revelling in a selfish, earth-forgetting bliss,
the friends who love us on the other side may have a holy work to do
for the suffering and the tempted, which may sometimes bring them
pain ; and that this pain is a thing as much more noble, exalted, and
beautiful than any self-centred enjoyment (made cloudless by forget¬
fulness of, or indifference to, the suffering and the sin of those they
loved here), as the highest ideal of goodness and happiness is above the
basest imaginings of bliss ever dreamed by man when his higher
faculties were all asleep in ignorance ? So far from being ‘‘ no wiser
than of old,” I am assured that the conception of the other life has been
greatly modified, even in the case of those who have no belief in Spirit¬
ualism, by the light cast upon it through spirit-teaching. The little leaven
has worked well, and there are now comparatively few who believe in
the old orthodox heaven and hell. In demanding from spirits some
entirely new and marvellous revelation, wTe lose sight of the fact that
no truth which humanity is prepared to receive can long remain com¬
pletely hidden. When we talk thoughtlessly of some startling and
undreamed-of knowledge which we fancy spirits — if, indeed, they
return—might bring to us, we imagine an impossibility. There is
nothing conceivable relative to a future state of which some idea,
through intuition and reason, has not been formed in receptive and
thinking minds; and that which is ^conceivable would, of course,
make no impression, even if higher intelligences should utter it. But
what was doubtful has been confirmed, and what was vague, made
clearer by spirit-teaching.
For men who claim to be wiser than the multitude, and especially
or those to whom nature stands for God, should not all the ways she
opens seem good, seeing that to some precious truth they all must tend ?
iWhat though the goal be invisible, and there be labyrinths to be
| threaded which may bewilder and baffle for a time the philosopher who,
striving to follow where she leads, is but a little questioning child after
all, and wisest when he realises his ignorance, objecting to nothing
which she offers for his investigation, and cavilling at no conditions
I which she imposes. May the truly wise come bravely and humbly to
i this work ; and so, at last, through questioning doubt and faithful
! seeking, may the truth be brought to liuht, both matter and spirit
] standing to all for what they really are, whatever that may he.
A.nd in this twofold sphere—the twofold man
Hold firmly to the natural, to reach
The spiritual beyond it—fixing still
The type with mortal vision, to pierce thro’,
With eyes immortal, to the antetype,
Some call the ideal—better called the real,
And certain to he called so presently,
When things shall have their names.
1, Bernard-street, Russell-square, London.
POWERS OF MEMORY.
| BY CHRISTIAN REIMERS.
About twenty-five years ago, when in Bonn, I was greatly
| | puzzled by Prof. Hermann and his clairvoyant boy, who was,
by way of preparing for the “occult” part of the perform-
; ance, balanced, body suspended, apparently against the force
I of gravitation, on a rod, in the known manner.
The day after the performance I happened to be with the
! Professor in the same railway carriage, en route for Cologne,
m I said to him (we being alone), “Excuse me, but I must
| i express my admiration for your splendid performance, being
| | myself interested and versed in the science of conjuring. The
11 j machinery is the best I ever saw, but the memory of your
| I little boy beats all.” With evident father’s pride, he replied,
| “Sometimes I am surprised at it myself. Yesterday, on
| ; arriving at Bonn from Cologne, he named all the stations
I | correctly—and queer names they are.” After this hint I
i ] watched the clairvoyant part at the next performance, and
| | failing to find the key to the mystery at first, I at last found
j j it to be exactly in keeping with Mr. Barrett’s observation,
| | that on returning to the stage he only pointed to things
] 11 (always about persons), and on simply clapping his hands,
j (| the boy quickly said, “ Ring,” “ Brooch,” “ Chain,” and so
| on. The order of succession I took note o£ and found it
| | exactly repeated at the next performance. Subsequently I
j (| often tried the game after my own fashion, and placing three
j j cards, as king, queen, and knave, on the table, “mes-
| | merised” a confederate in a remote corner, until he dropped
| | his head in trance; I returned with passes (pretending to
| | mesmerise the passage for rapport) to the table, and asked
I | any one to touch one of the cards. Then I asked, which ”
! | card is touched, or which “ card" is touched, and so on, the
J “ subject ” knowing by the accent what to reply. We agreed
| I for three rounds only, as the audience would then probably
I I get on the scent. The next turn was to telegraph to each
111 other by the nurnber of words, thus: I asked “ Tell,” or
j>j “ Now then,” or “ Which is it,” and with perfect success.
| ^ i But then some clever observers would propose to ask the
| i questions themselves, whereupon my confederate got into
| | violent spasms, out of which I restored him with great
j \ | trouble, painful to behold, and returning to the normal state,
m he would innocently ask, “ Was there any result?” and being
| | told that some one else wanted to put the questions he volun-
| | teered at once to try again, to which I objected, in order not
i j to strain the mesmeric fluid too much. The illusion was
I | perfect. The best thing is to place pretended mediums under
| I test conditions. It would save much hair-splitting.
!) I . ; _r ,
The gods in bounty work up storms about us that give mankind
i i occasion to exert their hidden strength, and throw out into practice
j (I virtues that shun the day and lie concealed in the smooth seasons and
I) | the calms of life.—Addison.
Capital Punishment.—The Swiss Republic has found itself com-
i) i pelled to re-establish the penalty of death. Capital punishment was
j 11 abrogated some years since throughout the Federation, with the general
I (| consent of the people, who, like the Italians, considered the penalty one
i > | which Governments have no right to inflict. The consequence, however,
1) i was an increase in the crime of murder in all Cantons, so marked that
: j j public opinion has undergone a change, and on the 20th inst. the Federal
| j i Council voted for re-establishing the penalty by 27 to 15. It should be
! | i noted that the great increase of crime was not in murders of revenge or
i ( | passion, but in murders for plunder, the robber finding that murder
:) i increased his chance of escape, without greatly increasing his personal
| ] | risk. He feared death more than a prolongation of imp:isonment.— Ti e
it ‘ Spectator, March 22nd, 1879,
April 4, 1879,
165
THE SPIRITUALIST.
FOREST FANCIES.
The forest dim,
It suits me well,
I love the hymn,
Its heave and swell;
A forest, too, beside the sea—
Each brings its own weird mystery.
And the sighing
Of the trees,
Soothes me, lying
At my ease,
Stretched within the pine-tree shade,
Dreaming of a long-lost maid.
Now, the sighing
Of the sea,
{
(
Switzerland.
All we love
We owe to Thee,
Queen, throned above
In mystery;
Thou art our God’s attractive power,
Thou drawest us upwards hour by hour.
0 crowndd Queen of Beauty,
Be throned in my heart,
Pleasure robed as Duty
Shall teach me who thou art;
O best-loved of the eternal Jove !
His daughter, whom his creatures love.
A. J. C.
SPIRITUALISM IN LANCASHIRE AND ELSEWHERE.
Vainly trying
Witchery—
If it might give back the voice
Which makes the forest dim rejoice.
Voice of Ocean!
Thou art wild,
Deep emotion
Is thy child;
How I love that ocean hymn—
I hear it oft in forest dim.
Beauty liveth, everywhere,
Is the omnipresent One,
When we seek to seize her, there,
Vanished is she in the sun;
But her shadow haunts us ever,
Like that love which leaves us—never.
Beauty! Beauty!
What art thou ?
Slave to thee
I ever bow;
But thou treatest me with scorn—
Goddess thou; I, earthly born.
Yet I dare
Seek for thee,
My heart to share,
Mine own to be !
Not for ever shalt thou flee,
But at last be one with me.'
Who gave thee
So great a power,
To enslave me
Hour by hour,
That I know no other blisses
But the haunting by thy kisses ?
Dost thou rest
Beyond the waves,
Far in the West
Among the graves,
Those islands where the sun unborn
Seems doomed to die, but lo ! tis morn ?
This we know,
Each setting sun,
Every fading of life’s glow
Is but a new life begun;
And Death’s glory in the West
Brings newborn day to lands more blest.
Beauty! Queen
Of many forms,
Clad in ever-varying sheen,
Thine the heart that Nature warms,
Thine the voice of wood and wave,
And the low voice beside the grave.
Thine the glance
From eye to eye,
In the sweet trance
When Love is nigh;
Thou livest in each throbbing heart
Of those who love too well to part.
j 11 [From the Manchester “Spiritual Reporter ”)
Spiritualism, as a movement, has much the same sort of ground to
i j travel, the same battle to tight, the same uphill road to climb as most
| (| other propaganda. Although ditferent movements have varying prin-
| | ciples upon which their charter is framed, yet the fashion in which
|) | those principles may be extended to the people is much the same
| j | whether in the Spiritual or Church movement.
II j We have to lecture, argue, debate, write and issue literature, and hold
j > j seances ; so have other movements. Although the line of action differs
j / ] but little, so much cannot be said of the principles involved. Ours is a
i (; new truth,, a new revelation that man is progressive in all ages, and
III during all time, and in so far it is superior to the fallible doctrines as
| i I taught by the religious churches to-day.
But in looking back a few years and taking a brief retrospect of how
!) | the movement has been built up, it is gratifying to know that success
j (I has been consequent upon almost all the schemes for its advancement,
i 11 None have failed. Although we do not attract people by thousands, yet
j) | our progress is sure and solid. A few years ago regular Sunday meet-
II i ings in the various towns could not be held or supported. It was with
| | great difficulty a good speaker could be engaged, and even if so, it was
i at a great cost, which usually so crippled those who had taken active
I (! part, that they were disheartened in helping on the movement for some
|) j time afterwards. The work was done then by fits and starts; there
|) I was nothing regular, but probably all necessary for something better
I (j and more satisfactory. This has come, the committee sprang into
i j i existence, because it was needed. Its work since its commencement
j \ j has been one of construction, building up temples of freedom and true
j i | intelligence, scattering to the people, by tongue and pen, the grandeur of
} j j spiritual philosophy. Its work has not been in formulating creeds, or in
i ) ] establishing rules. It is in entire opposition to the least trammel being
I \ I placed upon anyone. Let all be free. Free to accept the truth as they
I j i perceive it; free to believe, free to reject: no cramping, no dwarfing, but
I (| the right to know and utter the truth.
The advocacy of the movement during the past few years, as evinced
I 11 by the Lancashire Committee, has placed the movement in this district
m in a solid and healthy position. It has eliminated many obstructions
I (j usually attending the building up of a new movement. In glancing
11! outside this district we easily perceive much force wasted by combating
< | parties. Disorganised effort has been proved over and over again to be
(! a complete failure, and hence it must have a weakening tendency as
j j | regards the position of the movement. To be united does not mean to
I ( | be orthodox and binding in our principles. Like a thousand voices that
I (] blend in harmony, each must be in unison and the whole united. The
| | ] effect is at once seen. But let a few individuals strike out in opposing
i t ! strains, how discordant and broken is the harmony. Just so in our
| (I movement; although we may be opposed in minor matters yet, to produce
j ) I harmonious progress it is absolutely necessary we should all stand
| (I upon one common basis, each community working out the detail and
j | j minor points in the best way it deems fit. The committee has, during
III its few years of existence, established Spiritualism more as a philosophy
| j i than a religion—a philosophy that cannot be enclosed in space or made
| j | subservient to party: it being the soul of Spiritualism, embracing the
II j whole sphere of man’s existence. It asks for no worship, no bowing to
I ( | human dictators; it simply desires man to know himself, for all know-
i j | ledge centres there. Who shall say they have reached the pinnacle of
| < ! truth, or that the divine individual light can shine no brighter ? This
| (j philosophy knows no such ultimate. It is idle to say human beings have
I j | reached the goal of wisdom. We know none. To our finite minds it is
| (j inconceivable. As we gaze at night into the regions of other worlds the
ii thought strikt s us, what is there beyond the point of our vision ? If we
| were transported there, would our sight discern more planetary worlds,
i and again transported, should we reach the end ? No, for we cannot
j conceive a blank. And so in our philosophy; its wisdom extends as far
| as the eye can reach, and when the vantage ground is gained, more
cheering and brighter knowledge is perceptible in the far-off distances.
| It is pre-eminently superior to religious worship, inasmuch as it seeks
Ij to know truth in all its varied ramifications. Error is evil, and must
; pale and fade before the advancement of truth and knowledge. “More
! light,” cries the wise man, to dispel this gloom of error. “ More
! wisd >m ” to steer away from the dark channels of evil and ignorance.
“Ignorance,’’ said the Stratford bard, “is the curse of God, knowledge
j the wing with which we fly to heaven; ’’ and in our spiritual philosophy
I we are continually seeking to know and utter our increasing wisdom.
Our movement, then, cannot be measured by length or by breadth. It
111 can only be measured by its principles, which are ever expanding and
111 extending to higher grounds; and in placing them before the world, the
April 4,1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
161
greatest care should be exercised that they are expounded in clear, j j
detinite, and concise language. [ J j
Our movement is new. It is but a few years ago since it was first I j j
known in the district. About twelve years have elapsed since the first ] j j
public meetings were held and addressed by trance speakers. How rapid | j I
has been the advance when we compare our position at present and the i | i
short time which has passed since its commencement. Few movements, j ( j
we venture to say, in which religious principles are involved, have made j j j
such rapid progress. It is good evidence in support of those principles. ! j |
Since we have now gained a respectable and acknowledged position in | ( j
the district, it is more necessary than ever that we should try to improve |
it, and by no means grow lax in our work and advocacy. All should |
help in the work. Try and do something, if ever so little. Men and |
women of influence and position should step forward and support the |
various meetings. True Spiritualism sinks all differences of caste, |
position, or wealth. Those who can propound our principles from the I i
platform by earnest and well-chosen language, have their duty to fulfil j j !
in taking active service, and not to hide their light under a bushel, j j j
The young Spiritualists can do much by fitting themselves to take some j j
active work in connection with the movement. Minor differences | j j
should all be sunk for the general good. No one can say he is a bene- j I
factor who will stickle over a crotchet, or who is a pessimist, and yet j |
advances nothing in place of the structure he pulls down. If j
Spiritualism do not improve these things, then we are not ready for its
enlightened influence ; it is necessary to wait till true appreciation comes ! i
to our aid. All the world is not ready for spiritual philosophy. It is ! j
only the noble and open-minded who can value it at its true worth. In | j
the future, then, let the Spiritualists of every land stand united upon a j j
common base, and from that point all the minor details to spring. We J
hope, then, to see more real Spiritualism expressed in the work in j j
future. It is the bounden duty of all to assist in this work, and by so j |
doing not only is each individual improved, but great help and instruc- i
tion is imparted to others. j(
MESMEKISM.
(From “ The Torquay Times” March %2nd, 1879.) j j
Considerable public attention in Torquay has been directed during I
the past week, by the aid of a series of remarkable exhibitions, to the I
subject of mesmerism. At various times mesmeric phenomena have j j
attracted the interest of others of the public than those who go to an j
entertainment to be amused. Some years ago Mr. Stone produced j
some sensation in the town by the peculiar power he seemed to exert |
over many of those who submitted themselves to his influence, and the j j I
impression he produced by what he said as well as by what he did has I !
remained on many minds ever since. Some devoted much time to a I j j
consideration, if not a regular study, of the subject, and the result was ; i
that there were more than one local mesmerist who succeeded fairly in I j j
exercising the influence which neither they nor those who exercise it | j
to-day can understand or satisfactorily explain.
Again and again scientific men have investigated the subject, and, !)
although they have failed to satisfy themselves that all its advocates j j |
claimed for it was true, they certainly were unable to explain the j j
phenomena they witnessed upon any basis consistent with known j) j
science. The pretensions which enthusiastic believers in mesmerism I j
make in its name have nothing to do with the inquiry whether that j j
which is called mesmerism can be explained from any ordinary | j
premises. Mesmer himself did not nearly so well understand the | j |
subject as do many mesmerists of the present day, and there doubtless | j j
was in the thesis on planetary influence, which he first published in ! !
Messeburg, in Germany, in 1766, much that was erroneous. He j j
claimed for his theory a heavenly authority, in that he credited the j j
planets and the stars with diffusing through the universe a subtle fluid i j
which acts on the nervous system of animated beings. His claims i j
attracted the attention of nearly the whole medical and scientific I j
world, and so mystifying to ordinary perception were the phenomena j
he called into being, that it was impossible for science to hold its own j j
in the minds of even the educated classes, unless it condescended to j
make an inquiry into the new and startling theory.
A committee of physicians and philosophers was eventually nomi- |
nated by the scientific communities, and in 1784, one of their number, i j
Bailly, drew up a paper, in which he professed to expose the futility of j
animal magnetism. It did not, however, explain away the peculiarities i
into which the committee had to investigate; it only threw doubt |
upon the honesty of the subjects upon whom the influence was brought j
to bear. The result was that the people did not lose their faith in that j
which the philosophers could not explain away, and the belief grew ;
as quickly as the presence of mesmerists and the exhibition of their I
powers would give it an opportunity to spread.
No great consternation was again made by it until 1848, when Miss j
Harriet Martineau and other eminent persons announced their belief j
in it. ' It was then that the Mesmeric Infirmary for the treatment of i
certain diseases and accidents under mesmeric influence was estab- ; j
lished. The success of this institution was soon assured by the satis- i
factory character of the operations performed by aid of the discovered j
influence. Amputation, and most difficult surgical cases, were treated :
whilst the patients slept the mesraerio sleep, and in ten years the i
society was able to announce that Archbishop Whately was its presi- : j j
dent, and the Earl of Carlisle and Mr. Monckton Milnes (now Lord i
Houghton) were amongst the vice-presidents.
In 1851, however, Dr. Gregory, Professor of Chemistry in the i I
University of Edinburgh, published his work, Animal Magnetism, \
which is the standard book amongst mesmerists, and which was dedi- j j
cated by permission to the Duke of Argyll. The result of that publi- |)
cation was a considerable increase, from thinking people, to the number ! j
of believers in mesmerism. It is impossible to give even a short i j
account of Dr. Gregory’s argument. But his claims for his theory he
submits to the reader’s examination by telling him how he may verify
or disprove them, ff If you try,” says he, “ the experiment of drawing
the points of the fingers of your right hand, without contact, but very
near, over the hands of several persons, downwards from the wrist,
the bands being held with the palms upwards, and your fingers either
all abreast or one following the other, and repeat this slowly several
times, you will most probably find one or more who distinctly per¬
ceive a peculiar sensation, which is not always the same in different
persons.” From this beginning he extends the influence until it covers
the whole nervous system, resulting in mesmeric sleep, with its conse¬
quent remarkable associations. How to produce this Dr. Gregory
fully explains in the two methods of Mr. Lewis and Dr. Darling, the
first being that of intent gazing of the operator at the subject and vice
versa, and the second being that adopted by Miss De Montford last
week by the subject gazing at a small object in the hand. Whilst
under the sleep which these modes of influencing produce, most
remarkable phenomena become visible, and these are as useful as they
are interesting.
Dr. Esdaile had, in 1851, performed hundreds of painless operations
in Calcutta on the natives, who are more susceptible than Europeans,
whilst they were under mesmeric power. There are those in Torquay
who have seen amputations performed upon mesmerised persons who
have not moved a muscle daring the operations. It is claimed that
“after the operator has succeeded in producing the sleep easily and
in a short time, he can, in many cases, produce it by the silent exertion
of the will, without any passes, or other process of any kind.” The
possible developments of mesmerism as recorded are remarkable.
Thought-reading, medical intuition, sympathetic warnings, clair¬
voyance or lucid vision, retrovision, introvision, and prediction are
only a portion of these.
But of the many peculiarities in written records of the effects of mes¬
merism, there are none more remarkable, although most are more useful,
than those which Miss De Montford brought before the public during her
six nights’ exhibitions in Torquay last week. It is not our object to
record these, but we express our conviction that whatever was the
power exerted, and however astonishing were the results she pro¬
duced, there was no deception—even were it possible to the extent of
the peculiarities shown—by many of the subjects, who did their best
to resist her influence, and who are well known in the town. It may
be the province of third-rate “ scientists ” to smile at phenomena
they cannot understand or explain, but we cannot but think they
would be making a better use of the training their pretensions claim
for them if they first witnessed and then investigated some of the
remarkable consequences of the mysterious influence which a mesmerist
undoubtedly exercises.
CURIOUS RELIGIOUS NOTIONS.
In Sketches from Shady Places, by Thor Fredur, published by Smith,
Elder, and Co., describing the lives of some of the criminal classes, the
following bit of character is not by any means what we should expect to
find in the company of thieves and swindlers:—
Another curious personage is , a man between sixty and seventy,
who has also been a long resident in his common lodging-house—one of
over fifteen years. He possesses a tolerable income, but leads about the
most ascetic life of any man I ever knew. His food and clothing are
mean in the extreme. He consorts with nobody, hardly ever goes out,
receives no visitors, and never reads even a newspaper, but spends his
time walking up and down the passages rapt in meditation. Yet he is
no miser. He stints and holds himself aloof from the world in deference
to his creed. This is quite unlike any other with which I am acquainted,
and is evidently the product of the very peculiar mind of him who holds
it. Priests, temples, and religious rites he considers superfluities.
Divinity he considers just an overruling justice, and nothing more. The
future, he believes, will be a continuation of the present—with these
differences: there the human senses will be developed to the utmost,
thus enabling their possessors to taste the extremes of pain or pleasure.
There, too, weal and woe shall not be mingled as here in the lot of the
individual; the one shall never be allowed to approach him who is
consigned to the other, and the one and the other shall be strictly sensual.
In fact, his idea of hell includes all the horrors which monkish imagi¬
nation ever ascribed it; while his heaven is an exaggeration of that of
the Moslem, including every possible gratification of sense.
The strangest part of his doctrine, however, is, that a man’s position
hereafter is determined, not by his conduct on earth, but by the pleasures
he has tasted and the pains he has endured. The latter will, everyone,
be counted to his advantage in the next world, and the former all to his
disadvantage ; because, as he reasons, no man can enjoy himself on earth
except at the cost, and therefore the pain, of somebody else. So, when
a man dies, his joys and sorrows will be summed up by impartial justice,
and he will be consigned to his degree of reward or punishment as the
balance lies in his favour or otherwise. The holder of this strange
faith, therefore, carefully avoids everything that can be called pleasure.
He will not touch, taste, or handle in any way anything of the sort. He
shuts his ears to music and his eyes to books, painting, sculpture, and
even to beautiful scenery. He would not under any circumstances take
advantage of a conveyance. Because in none of these gratifications
could he dispense with the toil—that is to say the pain—of others. And
he is just as careful in abstaining from giving pleasure or the means of
procuring it. Thus he has lived for years, and thus he continues to
live, about the most miserable and useless person in existence, but also
about the most consistent.
Clouds are the veil behind which the face of day coquettishly hides
itself to enhance its beauty,—jBic/ifer.
162
April 4, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
PSYCHOLOGY IN CAMBPJDGE. j
I write to announce to your readers what I think cannot j |
fail to be of interest to them. At length a society has been j j
founded amongst members of this University for the study j j
of psychic phenomena ; our method is shortly this :—
1. Practical investigation of alleged facts. j)
2. Discussion of theories concerning those facts. |
3. Examination of the relations of both “ facts ” and I \
theories to the life-philosophies of the past, and their bearing j
upon the life-philosophy of the future. I j
We shall endeavour neither to trespass upon the domain j
of physical sciencenorupon that of theology, whiletheremem- !
bering that they lie on either hand of us may make us more j
accurate and reverent, for indeed is not a rational philosophy j
of life the cbieiest need of our time?—some science which |
shall serve as binding link between anatomy and aspiration : I
a need that men feel daily more keenly can never be set at j (
rest by dissectional gropings after the secret of life, or | j
schemes of salvation for the unexplainable human soul.
What is this secret thing, this saveable soul? We ascend j(
to heaven, and it is not there ; we come back to earth, and |)
find it not. Physiology we know, and pneumatology we I
have faith in (the noblest of us). Who will give us a j j
psychology ? j
And so it has come about that truth-lovers everywhere are J |
beginning to understand that if there be truth in these jl
modern miracles, in the chaos of a now fanatical and ignorant j
young movement may be the distant hope of some future I
psychological cosmos, and with good heart they go forward, !
reading the old text-books, praying the old prayers, watching j
floating musical boxes, and trusting for body, soul, and spirit j
the larger hope. This is the standpoint of our new society.
Of the vast importance of such study in our largest English I
University I will not speak. We are trying to get rooms to j
read, think, experiment, and be quiet in, and desire the kind 11
thought of men of good will, who can reach us at 38, |
Great Russell-street, London. Cantab. j
'l_ 6, Benet-street, Cambridge, March 31, 1879.
THE “WHITE LADY” OF BERLIN.
The following paragraph appeared in the Weekly Times of last j)
Saturday:—
It may interest those who happen to he learned in Berlin legends to know j j
that, according to report, the White Lady, whose visits always precede the i (
death of some member of the Royal Family, was seen on the eve of Prince i j
Waldemar’s death. A soldier on guard at the old castle was the witness of | )
the apparition, and in his fright fled to the guard-house, where he was at once i (
arrested for deserting his post.
Mrs. Catherine Crowe, in her Night Side of Nature, gives the follow- i j
ing history of this persistent apparition :— j /
“ The ghost, known by the designation of The White Lady, which is | ]
frequently seen in different castles or palaces belonging to the Royal | j
Family of Prussia, was long supposed to be a Countess Agnes of j)
Orlamunde; but a picture of a princess, called Bertha, or Perchta von j
Rosenberg, discovered some time since, was thought so exceedingly to \
resemble the apparition, that it is now a disputed point which of the | /
two ladies it is; or whether it is or is not the same apparition that is ! j
seen at different places. Neither of these ladies appear to have been 11
very happy in their lives; but the opinion of its being the Princess I)
Bertha, who lived in the fifteenth century, was somewhat countenanced I j
by the circumstance that at a period when, in consequence of the war, j j
an annual benefit which she had bequeathed to the poor was neglected, j j
the apparition seemed to be unusually disturbed, and was seen more j j
frequently. She is often observed before a death; and one of the j j
Fredericks said, shortly before his decease, that he should ‘ not live i
long, for he had met the White Lady.’ She wears a widow’s band and j j
veil, but it is sufficiently transparent to show her features, which do not j)
express happiness, but placidity. She has only been twice heard to j
speak. In December, 1628, she appeared in the palace at Berlin, and 11
was heard to say, ‘ Veni, judica vivos et mortuos ! Judicium mihi adhuc I j
sugerest'—Come, judge the quick and the dead! I wait for judgment, j I
“ On the other occasion, which is more recent, one of the princesses i
at the Castle of Neuhaus, in Bohemia, was standing before a mirror, |)
trying on a new head-dress, when on asking her waiting-maid what the i I
hour was, the White Lady suddenly stept from behind a screen and said, j j
‘ Zehn uhr ist es ihr Leibden!—It is ten o’clock, your love! ’ which is \ j
the mode in which the sovereign princes address each other, instead of j ]
‘ your highness.’ The princess was much alarmed, soon fell sick, and j j
died in a few weeks. She has frequently evinced displeasure at the j)
exhibition of impiety or vice; and there are numerous records of her j (
different appearances to be found in the works of Balbinus, and of I (
Erasmus Francisci; and in a publication called The Iris, published in ; J
Frankfort, in 1819, the editor, George Doring, who is said to have been i J
a man of great integrity, gives the following account of one of her later j)
appearances, which he declares he received just as he gives it, from the j
lips of his own mother, on whose word and judgment he could perfectly
rely; and shortly before his death, an inquiry being addressed to him
with regard to the correctness of the narration, he vouched for its
authenticity.
“ It seems that the elder sister of his mother was companion to one
of the ladies of the court, and that the younger ones were in the habit
of visiting her frequently. Two of these (Doring’s mother and another),
aged fourteen and fifteen, were once spending a week with her, when she
being out and they alone with their needlework, chattering about the
court diversions, they suddenly heard the sound of a stringed instru¬
ment, like a harp, which seemed to proceed from behind a large stove
that occupied one corner of the room. Half in fear and half in fun, one
of the girls took a yard measure that lay beside them, and struck the
spot, whereupon the music ceased, but the stick was wrested from her
hand. She became alarmed; but the other, named Christina, laughed,
and said she must have fancied it, adding that the music doubtless pro¬
ceeded from the street, though they could not descry any musicians.
To get over her fright, of which she was half ashamed, the former now
ran out of the room, to visit a neighbour for a few minutes, but when
she returned she found Christina lying on the floor in a swoon : who, on
being revived, with the aid of the attendants, who heard a scream,
related that no sooner had her sister left her than the sound was
repeated, close to the stove, and a white figure had appeared and
advanced towards her, whereupon she had screamed and fainted.
“ The lady who owned the apartments flattered herself that this
apparition betokened that a treasure was bidden under the stove, and,
imposing silence on the girls, she sent for a carpenter, and had the
planks lifted. The floor was found to be double, and below was a
vault, from which issued a very unwholesome vapour; but no treasure
was found, nor anything but a quantity of quick lime. The circum¬
stance being now made known to the king, he expressed no surprise ;
he said that the apparition was doubtless that of a Countess of
Orlamunde, who had been built up alive in that vault. She was the
mistress of a Margrave of Brandenburgh, by whom she had two sons.
When the prince became a widower, she expected he would marry her ;
but he urged, as an objection, that he feared, in that case, her sons
might hereafter dispute the succession with the lawful heirs. In order
to remove this obstacle out of her way, she poisoned the children ; and
the Margrave, disgusted and alarmed, had her walled up in that vault
for her pains. He added that she was usually seen every seven years,
and was preceded by the sound of a harp, on which instrument she
had been a proficient; and also that she more frequently appeared to
children than to adults, as if the love she had denied her own
offspring in life was now her torment, and that she sought a recon¬
ciliation with childhood in general. I know from the best authority
that the fact of these appearances is not doubted by those who have
the fullest opportunities of inquiry and investigation ; and I remember
seeing in the English papers, a few years since, a paragraph copied
from the foreign journals, to the effect that the White Lady had been
seen again, I think at Berlin.”
MUSIC “BEATEN OUT/9
BY J. A. CAMPBELL.
“Young George has been struck down in Afghanistan, and his mother
died yesterday, not of grief, but of weariness, in the cancer ward.”
The heart is riven, but the brow is calm ;
The fount of tears is dry, and none o’erflow;
“ Bless, Lord, my boy, and shield his soul from harm :
One long, last kiss”—and then she bids him go.
Go forth to war with devils, not with men ;
Go forth to face the conflict and the strife ;
First in the battle front for months, and then
For that dear country gives, his all—his life.
And she at home has fought with other foes,
The monsters of disease, and pain, and sin,
Until the call came forth, and she arose,
The Master ope’d the gate and let her in.
His stormy course, and hers more calm,
Each life a prelude to a higher, nobler chord.
Forget her now; they rest from worldly strife ;
Each had a conflict—each has a reward.
“ Passed to the Higher Life.”—After a long and painful illness,
supported with true resignation, expired to-day, at 6 p.m., Girolamo
Parisi, aged 82. His children Maria and Paolino, his son-in-law, and
daughter-in-law, hereby give the sad notice to relatives and friends.—
Florence, 18th January, 1879.
Mr. and Mrs. Loomis, of 2,- Yernon-place, Bloomsbury, London,
intend leaving in two or three weeks time for America. Dr. Wyld
informs us that Mrs. Loomis is an excellent clairvoyant for disease, as
he has recently tested her powers in this direction. Mrs. Loomis is also
a mesmeric sensitive.
Curious Coincidence.—The Derbyshire Times states that the elder
brother of the late William Howitt (who died at Rome at 3.30 p.m., on
Monday) expired at his residence, Heanor, Derbyshire, on precisely the
same day and hour. His name was Francis Howitt, and he lived in
“the old house at home,” which is the subject of one of the poems by
the late author.
April 4, 1879.
163
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OP SPIEITUALISM.
BT ISABEL BE STEIGER.
In reading the lives of great men, we are often struck with
the similarity displayed in their sentiments towards some
ideas which are now being developed among us; but it is not
often that we come upon such a paragraph as that on page
525 in Lewes’Z/2/<3 of Goethe. He says of Goethe:—“He
declared himself in the deepest sense of the word a Protes¬
tant, and as such claimed the right of holding his inner
being free from all prescribed dogma, the right of developing
himself religiously. With reference to the genuineness of
Scripture, he (Goethe) maintained, with the modern Spiritu¬
alists, that nothing is genuine but what is truly excellent,
which stands in harmony with the purest nature and reason,
and which even now ministers to our higher development.”
These are the words of Lewes, lately passed from our
midst. Can any higher praise or higher truth be spoken of
Spiritualism—that we own nothing genuine but what is ex¬
cellent, and that therefore we stand in harmony with the
purest nature and reason, and that this principle of ours,
therefore, ministers to our highest development. We are so
often accustomed to hear ourselves spoken about by thought¬
less lips, even those belonging to wise souls, in so very
different a manner, that it is refreshing to hear that our in¬
most sentiments are after all acknowledged by some few
great thinkers.
Here is also another paragraph in Goethe’s own words :—
“ The mischievous sectarianism of Protestants will one day
cease, for as soon as the pure doctrine and love of Christ are
comprehended in their true nature, and have become a living
principle, we shall feel ourselves great and free as human
beings, and not attach special importance to a degree, more
or less, in the outward forms of religion. Besides, we shall
all gradually advance from a Christianity of words and faith
to a Christianity of feeling and action.” These are remark¬
able words, and emphatic with the prophetic gift of the true
poet. He speaks, however, of Protestantism in the first
paragraph with respect and enthusiasm, as the only means at
that time available for a man of true sense and religion to
reconcile his religious and intellectual aspirations. At that
time Protestantism was still the breathing-place for great
minds. In the second paragraph he deplores, however, the
sectarianism of the very faith of which he has just rejoiced in
being a member, and looks forward to the time when the
breathing-place then granted to the aspiring and cultivated
souls of the earth would be of far larger dimensions. When
Protestantism should become not only Christianity, as under¬
stood even by us, but something beyond; and, again, a
religion of feeling and of action. Here is a foreshadowing of
what we modem Spiritualists now are blessed with; we feel
and we act, or we ought to act. We no longer simply believe
things on the testimony of others, many of whom, having
gone to their rest long ago, are therefore not altogether
acceptable authority to all classes of minds ; but we believe
because we feel them ourselves. Our feelings, however,
are not worth much without conviction, and without
conviction action very seldom follows. We can all enjoy the
luxury of feeling, that is, imagining or desiring, but such
luxury usually ends in dreams ; but conviction of a thing
has a different effect, and rouses to action ; nay, by force of
will, compels to action. This, therefore, is the religion that
Goethe prophesied would be the outcome of Protestantism—
a more perfect development of its freedom : freedom that
has coiled chains round the ignorant, and wrenched away
the supports from the unstable ones; for we are not all
equally ready for liberty or strong enough to support it.
IStill, freedom of thought was wanted and prayed for by the
great ones of the earth, and freedom was given. The strong
should then have supported the weak, but they rejoiced in
their own freedom and forgot the others, and so many of
the evil results of the Protestant and other reforms arise.
It seems as if we were again on the eve of another great
reform, and that is, that this religion of feeling and action
is now coming to us because we want it, because we are
ready for it. This religion is the one now being developed
among us through the great truths of Spiritualism. These
truths ve are now prepared to receive; we demand more
knowledge, and more knowledge is given to us.
I Two or three weeks ago there was read, at the British
| National Association, a paper by Dr. Wyld- on Christian
| Occultism^ throughout which breathed the spirit of the
| purest mind and the highest thought, and yet in every word
I it commended itself to our reason; it told us what the will
of man—the soul of man—could accomplish, when placed
in unity and harmony with the divine Creator. Then, again,
the fortnight after was read a paper’on the “ New Eraf by
i Mr. Calder. This subject brought before us what the result
would be on the world in general if the high and pure
| doctrines of Spiritualism were universally practised. It is
needless to say a sort of millennium would ensue. By the
millennium we all imagine (whatever it really may mean) a
! time upon the earth when the spirit of evil shall be expunged
and nothing but good remain. That is, however, manifestly
untrue to Spiritualists ; a spirit can never die ; therefore we
conclude there is no such thing as a spirit of evil. The only
evil which is in the world is from ourselves, and our own
| ignorance; therefore, we would rather say that the
millennium will be that dim, but not impossible time,
in the future, when all knowledge shall be given to us;
I therefore when evil, or want of knowledge, cannot then
exist.
We all of us feel our religion, and most of us would like
| to act upon it. I think this is the spirit pervading our ranks,
or beginning to pervade them; therefore, the dawn of true
| Spiritualism is from our midst going forth to awaken the
| world, and its noble ethics to stir its soul to the centre.
Progress and development are our watchwords, and from the
day when the chain of communication was first placed on a
true basis, down to the present time, it has been one of work
and effort. The Spiritualism of to-day has been raised
J11 many degrees higher, as one of the motive powers of the
j. I world, than it was in its time of infancy, then humbly,
j 11 plaintively, begging for life. We have all the marvellous
J I phenomena still in our midst, each year so unfolding in beauty
! | and interest as we open our minds to receive them ; and
j j we are beginning to have the still more important pheno-
111 mena among us—I mean, the teachings of Spiritualism.
| | We are beginning to know ourselves, to rule ourselves,
j 1“ Conquer self! Conquer self! ” are words of Mr. Fletcher’s
i (| still ringing in my ears, and that would surely be one of the
! | greatest conquests on earth, one of the forerunners of our
I I great future.
George Lewes says : <l The world is still a-making. The
| | primal energies of life are as young and potent as of old,
! | issuing forth under new forms, through metamorphoses
| | higher and ever higher, as dawn broadens into day.”
|) | 63, Bedford-gardens, Kensington, London.
) i A Spiritualistic Reception.—Last Tuesday night Mr. and Mrsi
( I William Tebb gave a reception to a number of friends at 7, Albert-road,
\ | Gloucester-gate, Regent’s-park, London. Among the guests present
j | were Mr. William White, author of the Life of Swedenborg, Mr. J. C*
( : Earle, B.A., Mr. Thomas Shorter, for many years editor of the Spiritual
\ | Magazine, Miss Shorter, Mrs. Nosworthy, Mrs. Nelson Strawbridge,
); Miss Cobbe, Lady Coomara, Mr. Charles Blackburn, Mr. and Miss
(| Beeby, Mr. Farquhar, Mr. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Mr. Baker, Mr.
\ i Cornelius Pearson, Signor Rondi, Mrs. Lowe, Mrs. Louisa Andrews,
) j Mrs. and Miss Hewetson, Mr., Mrs., and Miss Harvey, Miss Hutton,
11 and Mr. Harrison.
Sunday Services at the Cavendish Rooms.—Last Sunday morn-
( i ing the service at the Cavendish Rooms, London, was as usual con-
{| ducted by Mr. Desmond FitzGerald, and after the usual lessons
/1 some remarks were made by Mr. E. Harrison Greene, Mr. and Mrs.
c : J. W. Fletcher, and others, followed by recitations and readings by the
| members of the Spiritual Lyceum. In the evening there was no
) regular address, but a meeting was held to celebrate the thirty-first
( anniversary of Modern Spiritualism. Speeches were made by several
j prominent workers, among whom were Mr. Thomas Shorter, Mrs. Nos-
) worthy, of Liverpool, Mrs. Louisa Andrews, and Mr. and Mrs. J. W.
( Fletcher. The meeting was presided over by Mr. Greene. Letters
S were read from Mr. Epes Sargent, Mr. John Wetherbee, Major
) Thomas Gales Foster, Mr. J. M. Peebles, Mr. Enmore Jones, and
t | others, who could not be present. At the conclusion of Mr. Fletcher’s
s remarks he said that he had endeavoured to procure Steinway Hall,
; as the Cavendish Rooms were too small for the audiences, but had been
( refused because of Spiritualism; he, therefore, called upon all to give
) their names in support of his object, as he was determined never to
> rest until the prejudice had been conquered. This call was responded
( : to ; the lessees of the building have since withdrawn their objections,
(i so Steinway Hall, 15, Lower Seymour-street, Portman-square, has
j been taken by Mr. Fletcher for one year. It will accommodate alout
j i bOL> people. A service will be held there at 7.30 p.m. next Sunday.
April 4, 1879
164
ME SPIBIMALiST.
MAGIC.
Magic assumes a more creditable shape than the super¬
stitions which are usually associated with its name; it was
knowledge; and many of those whom Naude has vindicated
from the charge, would probably have considered themselves
rather honoured than disgraced by the imputation.
The magical colleges of Spain enjoyed a species of classical
reputation. In these our western parts of Europe, they
appear to have been the successful rivals of Dom Daniel, the
great Alma Mater beneath the sea. Toledo and Salamanca
and Simancas were alike celebrated or defamed for the in¬
struction which they imparted in unhallowed lore. The
schools were held in subterraneous chambers. Martin Delrio
had seen the entrance of the awful cavern at Simancas,
which was not closed until the reign of Ferdinand and
Isabella, when the entire subjection of the Ishmaelites
rendered it unnecessary to temporise any longer with the
powers of darkness. The doctrine delivered at Simancas,
however, was not Goetic Magic, or that which is vulgarly
termed the Black Art, but the high and pure Theurgy which
repels all converse with the evil demon.
Tbeurgical magic, the magic which seeks its converse with
the Power, the Intelligence, and the Angel, might have been
first diffused in Spain by the sectaries of the Gnostic doc¬
trines, who appear to have found numerous adherents in
that country during many centuries. After the Moorish
conquest, it extended its empire. The Castilian was subdued
into respect for his hereditary enemies. He bowed to their
imaginary wisdom as well as to their real knowledge. Nor
did these pursuits fail to find the highest patronage. Alfonso
the Wise thus ordered that the book of King Piccatrix the
philosopher should be rendered into Latin, out of the Saracen
tongue. At his command the translation was made in the year
of our Lord, 1256, and in the year of the era of Alexander, 1568,
and in the year of the era of Caesar, 1295, and in the year of the
Arabs, 556. We are informed by bibliographers that even in
the last century very large prices were given for this encyclo¬
paedia of magic, by persons who thought it would certainly
enable them to evoke any spirit whom they chose. The work,
however, has little originality. Arbatel and the Clcwicula
Salomonis, both of which are comparatively common books,
though less extensive, are nearly as curious in all material
points. King Piccatrix was a mere compiler, and he
confesses, conjurer as he was, that he made the book
from the works of two hundred authors, amongst whom we
find the honoured names of Abentaria, Empedocles, Queen
Folopodria, Tinliquiz Zadilair, Zatrac, Mercury of Babylon,
Hermes Trismegistus, Alforz, Alphila, Adam, Plato,
Aristotle, Hippocrates, and the great Geber Aben-
hayen. Those, however, who have not ready access to the
volumes of the before-mentioned sages and magicians, may
satisfy themselves with the treatise of Piccatrix. It will be
useful to the student who, without much research or labour,
wishes to acquire a compendious and practical notion of the
art and mystery of talismans and astral magic, whilst the
general reader may receive it as an authentic record of
Arabian superstition. There is no reason whatever to doubt
its imputed origin. Many of the magical planetary seals
appear to be Cufic monograms, and the whole theory in¬
volved by the invocations of Piccatrix, and the other tomes
of the same nature, is in conformity with the astral theurgy
of the Semitic nations. Michael, Gabriel, Samuel, Raphael,
Uriel, Zadkiel, and Satiel move in the planets and inform
the celestial spheres. They were adjured and bound by holy
names; and aloes and sandal wood and fine spices were
burned in the censer. Purified by fasting and by orison,
clad in white linen, armed with the elemental sword, shielded
by the Pentacle of David, the master entered the circle of
characters traced on the consecrated ground, and the
threatening prayer was read aloud which bound the planetary
king to descend from his orb, and obey, or at least assist, the
gifted mortal.
The Latin invocations are intermixed with words and
phrases in other languages, Greek, and Hebrew, and Chaldee ;
some there are which cannot be easily recognised, but which
may possibly be Egyptian. The Egyptian name of the sun,
$PH, is often found on the Gnostic or Basilidian gems,
which owe their origin to sectaries, whose religious opinions
were analogous to the doctrines recorded in the magical
[ ( j treatises of a much later date. The visionary shapes whom
\M we are taught to evoke in the magical treatises do not belie
}|| their historical character. Many of the hideous monsters
| I engraved upon the gems correspond with the description of
I | the genii of the planets. The angel of Saturn may be
| vi peculiarly recognised—tall of stature, with an awful aspect,
| j four faces frown around his head; on each knee is seen a
i I human countenance, but black and glaring. His motion is
| | like the tempestuous blast, earth shakes beneath his tread.
I | The talismans of the middle ages always retained a close
| I affinity to their prototypes, and the seals continued to be
| | armed with the imagery of the supposed disciples of Babylon.
] j A very curious talisman ring of this class was lately found
i near St. Albans, and is now in the possession of Lord
| ! Verulam. The gem is a red stone, upon which is engraved
| j a lion grasping the head of some animal; above is a star.
I ! The ring is of silver, and two inscriptions in concentric
| 1 circles surround the stone—ecce vicit Leo. Sigillvm
I ! Iohannis Delaval. The characters are of the reign of
II j Edward I. or his successor. The magical figures engraved
III on the ‘stone are copied from prototypes of much older date;
j j three have been published by Chifflet in his essay on the
| | Basilidian Gems (pi. vii.)
An anathema had been denounced against the vain and
) |! presumptuous pursuits of magic. When assembled in
i!' | public, and debating in the college, the doctors allowed of
| no distinction between celestial and Goetic magic, between
the invocation of a good demon and the compact with an
| evil one. But the restless aspirations of ardent minds would
! not be obedient to the decree. And many a sound theologian,
! who exclaimed loudly in the chair against these heresies and
[) j errors, would seek a secret communion with beings descend-
111 ing from other spheres. But to justify himself to his own
11 j conscience, he endeavoured to fancy that he was not acting
| j in repugnance to the faith and doctrine which he owned.
| | The rites of Christianity were secretly and silently blended
111 with the magical ceremonies of the Eastern tribes, and the
j | ] spells of the middle ages exhibit a strange confusion of the
j j practices of the Church and the Platonic cabala. The sign of
| | the cross alternates with the pentalpha, and the names of the
| | evangelists are added to the angels of the stars. Holy water,
! I which chased away the demon, also assisted in consecrating
I I the hallowed Lamen and the Periapt. The lustration was in
i I direct disobedience to the ritual whence it derived its power;
j | but with equal perverseness, the sacrifice of the mass was
| ! thought to perfect the charm which subjected the thauma-
| ! turgist himself to the dread penalty of excommunication, and
111 deprived him of the benefit of the sacrament.
It is somewhat singular to observe how rapidly these
| | abuses gained ground in the ages approaching to the century
| j of the Reformation. Ecclesiastical ceremonies during that
| i period were the invariable accompaniments of magic and
] i demonolatry. No spell could be cast without a priest;
i i images were baptised in the font, and placed upon the altar
I i for the purpose of striking the victim whom they represented
i i with disease and death. There were few of the magicians of
111 Catharine of Medicis who were not in holy orders. The
| i Calvinists of France owed little charity to Popery, or to the
! (| reigning dynasty, and their credulity has sometimes exagge-
111 rated the charges, but in the main they are not to be denied.
I (| The causes which induced these perversions of doctrine, also
j j converted the saint into a being whose character assi-
| I milates with the attributes of the Agathodemon of a classical
i (| age ; whilst the prayers addressed to the canonized martyr
111 or confessor echo the voice of the magic lay.
Gaspar, Melchior, and Balthazar, the three kings of
| j | Cologne, appear as- favourites in this system of magical
11 hagiology. Their names were inscribed in phylacteries,
which were worn as preservatives against sudden death.
But the same names also constituted the potent charm which
i revealed the fatal hour. It was thought that if, on new
i year’s eve, these names were written with blood upon the
| I forehead, the person thus seeking the painful foreknowledge
I j : would see himself reflected in the mirror, under the sem-
; I blance in which he was fated to expire.
| i When these orisons, the comfort of fond and doting age,
i | were in the vernacular tongues, they were almost always
| !- couched in rhythm, if not in verse, muttered or sung by the
111 crone, and spelt by lisping childhood. The following,
April 4, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
165
perhaps in the language of the thirteenth century, was used
to staunch blood:—
Longes the knyht him understod
To Cristes syde his spere he sette
Ther com out water an hlod.
In the nom of the vader astond blod !
In the nom of the holi gost asta blod !
At Cristes will ne driple the na more!
A happy and lucky day was secured in France by a
rhythmical invocation, which we notice on account of its
relation to another article of popular belief in that country,
namely, that whoever saw the image of St. Christopher was
preserved during that day from misfortune :—
Seint Jehan et son agnel
Seint Christofle et son fardel
Seinte Marie et sa brassee
Me doint bonne et eureuse journee.
No sanction has been given by the Church of Rome to
these “ superstitious observances,” which, on the contrary,
were severely and sincerely reprobated by her prelates. But
the corruptions of which Rome approved could not fail to
induce others which she condemned; and the boundary
between legitimate hagiolatry and forbidden saint-worship
was so faint, that such censures would possess but iittle
real influence amongst the uninformed and illiterate vulgar.
The feasts of the saints became associated with many magical
observances obviously derived from the times of heathenism.
Both among the Eastern and the Western nations, the eve of
St John, on whose morrow the sun completed his highest
course, was deemed the fitting time for those mystic rites
which command the evil spirits and give an insight into
futurity. In aftertimes the pure and splendid Artemis her¬
self could no longer be addressed by the maiden of France or
England; it was therefore necessary that the invocation
should take another form, and the <( moon was charmed” at
the hour when the silver beams of the new-born crescent
first shone forth, by the name of Saint Lucia or Saint
Agnes.
Love-charms were sometimes dispensed by beldames of no
ambiguous character. Philters, in most cases, were evidently
poisons, and the persons who dispensed them, though
innocent of sorcery, were not undeserving of the punishment
of the law. Sympathetic magic compelled the desired object
to appear, unwilling, perhaps, and unconscious of the power
which attracted him. One of the most amusing episodes in
the most amusing of romances is founded upon this belief.
Pamphila, ignorant of the deception practiced by her atten¬
dant, burns the tresses which she supposes to have belonged
to the Boeotian youth. The three wine sacks, whence the
hair was cut, become filled with feeling and with life ;
they rise, they obey the irresistible spells of the Thessalian
sorceress, and stumble with blind alacrity through the
street, until they arrive at her door. Here Apuleius
meets them, and mistaking the goat skins, thus animated,
for as many midnight robbers, he attacks them with all the
valour of the knight of La Mancha, until his sword has laid them
low. It is rather sorrowful than amusing to find that another
version of this old story was produced as a charge against
the luckless Doctor Fian. Daphnis was also compelled to
appear really and corporally at the bidding of Hecate; and
the magic of Thessaly, transmitted from age to age, yet
lurks by the village fire-side. The task allotted to the lynx
is now performed by the “ Dumb Cake;” the method of
composing it may be found in Mother Bunch. Some
difficulty, however, must be encountered in making this
charm stand firm and good, as rather a painful duty is
imposed upon the three spinsters who blend the ingredients.
If they speak one word during four-and-twenty hours, the
spell is broken. In Scotland, the stories which are told
respecting its effect have all a fatal catastrophe. They tell
you that the bridegroom thus conducted by the infernal
powers enters the opened door at midnight, and looking
earnestly at his intended spouse, casts some weapon on the
table, and then vanishes. A marriage, of course, takes
place, and the wife must keep the murderous token with
fearful care. If she parts with it, his love is lost; and if it
is discovered by the husband and according to the story—he
always discovers it—then the magical necessity compels him
to plunge it in her breast. A moral might be fancied to
lurk in this idle legend. Supposing it to be an apologue—
and it possesses as good a right to be so considered as the
fables of classical antiquity—an intelligible lesson is con¬
veyed. The bearer is warned to distrust an affection raised
by fraud or guile ; and to consider that no passion can pro¬
duce a durable happiness, unless it fairly arises from the
heart.
The wily Tregetour must take his rank amongst the
natural magicians. When he played in the hall, and cast
the balls in the air, and pierced his body with the innocuous
sword, the guests eyed him half with delight and half with
horror, nothing doubting that some minor fiend, if not
Zabulon himself, assisted in the sport and deceit. Originally,
there is no doubt that the juggler was a real magician. In
the laws of Edward and Guthrum, the pijlep is associated
with the witch and the murderer, against whom are de¬
nounced the pains of banishment or death.* Bodin is loud
in exclaiming against the famous Trois Eschelles—he must
not be identified with the expert finisher of the law in
Quentin Durward—who was guilty of the diabolical trick of
slipping the rings from off a golden bracelet, which never¬
theless remained entire. It is said that Trois Eschelles con¬
fessed that he performed this and other feats of a like
nature, at the Court of Charles IX., by the help of an evil
spirit, to whom he had sold himself, and he was condemned
to die. A pardon was granted; but the juggler relapsed,
and was afterwards executed. There is reason, however, to
suppose that, like many other sorcerers of the middle ages,
his punishment was not wholly unmerited, and that, though
he may have been innocent of magic, he understood too well
the art of poisoning.—Quarterly Review.
A SYMBOLICAL DREAM.
A common hackney coachman had a most remarkable
dream not long since, which is as follows :—He dreamt one
Saturday evening that he was out with his coach plying for
a fare; and, being engaged, had directions given him where
to drive. As he was carrying his passengers, he thought he
was called to ascend an exceeding steep hill; and when he
reached the summit, he found the declivity of the hill still
more troublesome. However, with great difficulty he got
down, and as he proceeded he arrived at a pair of great iron
gates, wide open. When he had passed them, he found
himself in an uncommonly dark and gloomy place, in which
were vast crowds of people dressed in mourning, all of whom
by their countenances seemed in a very pensive frame of
mind. Hereupon he stopped, and asked one of the men
what place that was. He answered it was hell. Hell! said
the coachman, I have had more frightful ideas of hell than
this appears to be; if this be hell, I shall not be under such
fearful apprehensions of hell, as formerly. Upon this the
person informed him that hell was not so much outward as
it was inward; and as a proof of this, he opened his waist¬
coat, and showed him his heart, which was in a flame of
fire.
This shocked the coachman to a great degree; but he pro¬
ceeded to inform him that his case was not singularly
shocking, for all whom he then saw were in the same
condition; and added, if he would accompany him, he should
see worse than that. Here the coachman refused, and in
great confusion and consternation attempted to return ; but
to his surprise the person, in conjunction with the other,
caught hold of him, and refused to let him go, except ho
would promise to come again. After he had used every
effort to free himself to no effect, he at last promised, if
they would let him go, he would certainly come again at
twelve o’clock. Upon this condition they let him depart,
and he drove off in haste. When he was got out, he awoke
in great horror of mind. He then awoke his wife, and
related the whole to her, but she treated it with ridicule,
and soon went to sleep again. But the poor man slept no
more; and in the morning said he was afraid he should die
and go to hell, and desired his wife to seek for some man to
go out with the coach that day, for he could not; and refused
to eat or drink anything. Hereupon his wife took fire, and
used him with rough language; and went among her
* It is probable the English word juggler is derived from the Saxon Juglep and not
from the French jongleur.
166
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 4, 1879.
acquaintance, ridiculing his fancy, and said her husband was
going to hell at twelve o’clock. This passed on, and the
man got worse in his mind, till the clock struck twelve;
when his wife damned him, and said, {f- It is twelve o’clock,
and you are not yet gone to hell!” With that he replied,
“ Hold your tongue, for I am going,” and immediately fell
down dead. This the person related to the minister, the
Rev. Mr. W., who communicated it to me as certain, and
subjoined that the wife was then almost in a state of distrac¬
tion.—iWil/'s’ Spiritual Register.
THE SECRET OF THE LOGOS.
BY G. WIESE.
The old so-called “ Secret of the Logos ” has been
revealed at last, I am glad to see. When Dr. Wyld first
made mention of that mystical term it rather displeased
me, for I am no friend of secrecy, and dislike mysterious
remarks. Mystical terms, if used by a writer in public,
ought always to be accompanied by a brief, common-sense
explanation. Unless that is done, they often give rise to
useless correspondence and satirical remarks. Everybody
feels tempted, as it were, to have a peck at the strange thing.
This was the only objection I had to the mystical term,
u the Secret of the Legos,” which suddenly appeared at the
end of Dr. Wyld’s letter, like a huge meteor close to the
horizon.
Now the veil has been withdrawn from the image of Sais.
The picture is striking in its very simplicity and grandeur.
All great divine truths are simple ; only human devices and
fancies are complicated and dark. As far as our poor, plain
human words are able to draw a picture of the essence of
religious truth, this may be a faithful copy of the original,
for what I know. Whether a better one can be drawn by
any philosopher or saint I know not, but I doubt it. The
truth as to the way of securing the right key is that which
“Nathan the Wise,” in Lessing’s drama, puts forth in his
parable of the “Three Rings,” representing the three
religions, the Jewish, Christian, and Mahometan.
The aspect, form, and garment of truth, as it issues forth
from the hands of the Creator, are always beautiful in their
simplicity and purity. They are resplendent by a light that
dazzles not our bodily, but our spiritual eyes, when gazed at
closely. It is only the perverted taste of foolish and degene¬
rate mortals, who busy themselves, as soon as divine truth
has descended among them, which covers up its natural form
and its garments of celestial beauty, with motley and dirty
rags of its own. It puts a mask before its face, so that
but few are able to recognise its original form and beauty,
and, for fear of losing it, men hasten to imprison it in the
walls of their temples. “ This is truth,” they say, “ the
Divine Truth, and we are the onlv proprietors and keepers of
it. Come and worship in our temple, for unless you do so,
your soul cannot be saved ! ” The spirit of truth, impri¬
soned and treated thus, silently rises and escapes from its
dull prison, leaving behind only its disfigured, lifeless form,
which remains the object of worship for the thoughtless
crowd.
The weary, lonely wanderer in search of truth, on entering
the temple, turns his eyes with joyful expectancy. But, alas,
perceiving the lifeless figure and spiritless form of worship,
he walks out again, silent and sad, murmuring:—“If the
spirit of truth ever existed, it must be somewhere else, for it
is not here ! ”
Now, who can tell me whether there is at present a
mortal on this earth who is really in possession of the key
described by Dr. Wyld ? Wfiat we have is only a sketch of
it; that is all. We may consider it to be a true sketch of
the original key, which latter is only to be obtained by a
life of almost superhuman work for the purification and
elevation of the spirit, whilst it is still imprisoned in its
cumbersome mortal coil. In the difference, however, between
word and deed, between knowing our duty and doing our
duty, “ there is the rub.” It would be a blasphemous absurdity
to fancy or assert that any Church authority, or other mortal
being, is really holding the key and able to open the gates
of heaven to others, or even to himself. All a man can
do, is to strive for it with earnest purpose and perseverance
i!
| under every condition and difficulty of life. To do this is
| plainly our common duty ; and it is the purpose of our short
| earthly existence, which appears to be intended by our
Heavenly Father to serve us as a school term. Those who
i work honestly, with the highest aim in view on this earth,
! may confidently hope to be admitted to the higher school
above when they have finished their term here below,
though not one in a hundred millions may reach such a
I state of perfection as to deserve and obtain possession for
| himself of the key to the highest realms above. If a man
| retire into the desert or cloister, living the life of a hermit,
| guarded against the temptations of the world—conditions
I which render it comparatively easy to live the life of a
! saint—will there be sufficient merit in that for gaining such
j a high reward ? I doubt it. Cases are often considerably
| changed by circumstances.
In medimval times, when religious fanaticism and cruel
I persecution were the order of the day, and went hand-in-
| hand with the rapacity of the mighty; when life and property
were unsafe, and the maxim of Christ, “ Love your enemies,”
was actually changed into “ Burn your enemies” by the
authorities of the domineering Church—retiring into the
j solitude of a cloister was the only career a person could
| choose who yearned for bodily and spiritual safety, for purer
| thoughts, and a purer life. To-day the circumstances are
J entirely altered, and what was a meritorious act in those
! mediaeval times cannot be considered a meritorious act now.
I Cloister life began to degenerate gradually when the circum¬
stances which had produced them disappeared. Cloisters
! became a refuge, in part, for a great number of lazy
vagabonds who detested honest hard work, preferring a life
| of pious indolence and a luxurious table.
What is required from us now is not to retire from the
j world and live a life of pious contemplation and indolence,
I with the rather selfish purpose of raising our little selves in
i preference of the hard work of trying to raise others, but to
live a steadfast, active, and virtuous life in the midst of our
worldly work and duties, and the worldly temptations
| surrounding us, in order to give an example to others and
act as a leaven in society.
j Wiesbaden, February 12th, .1879.
SPONTANEOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
BY ELIZA BOUCHER.
Whether or not the following account is to be relegated
| to the realm of remarkable coincidences, or to occupy the far
j higher ground of a natural phenomenon illustrating the
I theory of the transmigration of souls, or as tending to show
; that disembodied spirits can really “ possess ” the bodies of
| the lower animals as well as those of man, must, of course,
j depend entirely on the amount of further evidence forth-
: coming in support of one or the other of these hypotheses. I
j again quote from that most interesting work of the Hon.
j Grantley Berkeley, My Life and Recollections, and the
i student of psychological science must simply relegate the
| narrative to whichever class he may deem the most fitting
| for its reception. I shall, however, head my communication
j as usual, and give the account verbatim :—
“ A pet goldfinch had a very pretty mistress, and its affec-
! tion for her was extraordinary. She had taught the bird to
! feed from her lips, to sit on her hand, and to sing to her.
I Indeed, while she was in the room the constant twittering
| of her little friend filled the place, to some extent interfering
1 with conversation. Attached to all living pets of the kind
j as I was, I loved this one not only for the sake of its
I mistress, but for itself, and it repaid me by letting me hear
I i from the lips he loved and fed from, that I was the only man
\ | to whom he ever paid the least attention. The lady and
) myself used to talk much on my favourite theme, the trans-
| migration of souls, and I called her bird a lover from a
j: formtr world. She combated this idea, and asserted that
j she lived with him in this, and therefore would insist that
! the conquest was of the present day, and all her own 
i After the goldfinch and myself had had time to like each
| other, the mamma of my fair friend was seized with a sudden
! inclination to go abroad.
(i “ Before the hour of starting I visited the house to take a
April 4, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
sad farewell. The young lady, the bird, and myself were | j
once more left together. Smiles and silent tears succeeded |
each other in her sorrowful face, when at last she bade me j
adieu in the following words:—11 take your view now of my I
little favourite; it perhaps has had a previous life; hereafter !
it shall be my “ soul.” If anything happens to me it shall j
fly to you to tell you I am gone, and then return to sing j j
above my grave.’ j
“We parted in sorrow, and herself and her bird were i
certainly absent for nearly two years before I heard of them i
again. On a hard winter’s day, as I sat writing in my study, I <
there came a sudden blow upon the glass of my window, and j
I thought I caught a glimpse of a large bird like a sparrow- j ]
hawk gliding swiftly by. Snatching up my loaded gun, which i <
I always kept close at hand, I threw up the window to look j!
for the hawk, but not seeing anything of the kind, my eyes j;
fell on the ground, and there, motionless, with its lovely j <
wings outstretched, I beheld a male goldfinch apparently
dead. On picking up the bird, life was extinct. This I
attributed to the pursuit of a hawk, as I had known an
instance or two before where small birds had killed them¬
selves against glass in trying to escape. The promise of
my beautiful friend, when I first possessed myself of j
the fallen bird, never entered my head; and when the
goldfinch came against my window I was writing, and in no j
mood for melancholy reflections, though I had not ceased to
love her from whom I had so sorrowfully parted.
“Not very long after this the news of her early death j
reached me through the letter of a mutual friend, and by
the most strange coincidence I discovered it had occurred
on the afternoon of the day, I cannot say the exact hour,
on which the goldfinch killed itself against my window. If j
then the unconfirmed supposition of spiritual communication
with the world has anything in it, here there is something j
for the disciples of the doctrine to lay hold of, for supposing |
for a moment that the bird was a link in the chain of trans- I
formation and transmigration, it came back to me and j
strictly fulfilled its mission. It announced to me her death,
and its spirit returned to sing a requiem over the grave of j
its beloved mistress.”
The work was published in 1865.
Albion-villa, Fremantle-square, Bristol.
What is incredible to thee thou shall not, at thy soul’s peril, believe.
—Carlyle.
A Visit to the Dead.—When Ulysses visited the prophet “ Tiresias
old ” in Hades, he met there the shade of Achilles, and said to him,
“ In life the Argives honoured thee like a God, and now again in thy |
greatness thou rulest the dead here where thou art.” He straightway j
made answer, “ Console me not in death, noble Ulysses! Would rather,
that I were a bondsman of the glebe, the servant of a master, or some i
poor man, whose living were but scanty, than thus to be the king of all
the nations of the dead.”
A Defender of the Church.—The remark is a common one, j
agreeing with experience, that exceptionally pious people are often i j j
capable of dirtier acts in life, and have a lower sense of honour, than j j j
ordinary men of the world. One Wilfred de Fonvielle has come for- j j i
ward in Paris, with a book on How Miracles are Performed Without the [)
Church, in which he piously flings mud at an innocent man. In defence i (j
of the Church, he gives the following as facts to his readers in relation i j i
to Mr. Home’s seances. Mr. Home, and other mediums, obtain their j) j
manifestations while both their hands are held, but M. Fonvielle says: | (j
—“ He began by ordering the lights (the natural enemies of all jugglers, ; (j
spirits, and wizards) to be extinguished. If people would carry a m
pocket-lantern to these entertainments, and bring it out at the right j 11
moment, they could spoil the calculations of more successful charlatans j (|
than Home. Wrhen the gas was turned on again magic characters were \)\
seen traced on the ceiling, which was far too high to suppose for a |! j
moment that it was Mr. Home’s hand that had traced them. Nor was i j j
it, indeed, with his hand that our spirit had reached so high. He had ) |
in his pocket a telescope-pen, which was a chef d’oeuvre of delicate work- j i
manship. The medium of kings and emperors could refuse himself j j j
nothing. In its ordinary state this penholder was no longer than a j) j
pencil, but by separating the springs that held it together like those of j j
an eye-glass it grew to the length of a fishing-rod; the rest is easily j j
guessed. Home performed several tricks with the aid of his feet; his j ]
shoes were made so that he could take them off and put them on again i
at pleasure without moving his hands ; by this means it was very easy j i
in the obscurity to slip off his shoes and make the audience believe that | j
they were being touched gently by a spirit hand. In the last days of the j j
Empire, he even went so far as to make the Empress believe that she j
was pressing in hers the hand of the Duchess d’Albe. An aide-de- |)
camp, however, who had his suspicions, laid a trap and caught the | j
impostor at the right moment. The Emperor was angry and Home I
was discarded. The newspapers made the matter as public as it jl
was in their power to do in those days.” I j
167
A DAILY PAPER TELLING THE TRUTH ABOUT
SPIRITUALISM.
Of all the miracles of modern times, that contained in the
above heading is the most startling to Spiritualists. The
Times, because it has a respectable class of readers, is nearly
the only daily paper in London which has taken any pains
to try to discover and to tell the truth about Spiritualism,
and has not descended to misrepresentation and vulgar abuse.
The North British Daily Mail (Glasgow), of March 15th last,
contains the following report of a seance:—
So much has been said and done lately regarding the
exposure of Spiritualism that a few notes may be of interest
as to what the writer witnessed the other night at a private
seance given by Mr. David Duguid. This gentleman was
comparatively unknown until publicly challenged by Mr.
Bishop during his recent exposure of Spiritualism. Mr.
Duguid has never courted publicity, but at the same time he
has always been very willing to give every information
regarding his manifestations. The seance took place in his
parlour, and was attended by ten gentlemen, five of whom
were rank heretics regarding all Spiritualistic phenomena.
Immediately on Mr. Duguid taking his seat at a small table
he went into a trance condition, his eyes closing, and a smile
playing on his countenance. A piece of cardboard, about
Gin. by 9in., which had been previously examined by the
company, was then handed to him. After breathing on it
Mr. Duguid made a rough pencil sketch and then picking up
his palette and brushes, commenced to paint a landscape
with his eyes firmly sealed. To make assurance doubly sure,
a handkerchief was firmly bound across his eyes, but he did
not appear to be the least inconvenienced by this arrange¬
ment, and painted away quite briskly, first rubbing in the
sky, and then the faint outline of the distant mountains;
next the middle distance, and finally boldly dashing in the
foreground with a few vigorous strokes. At the suggestion
of a gentleman present the light was put out, but this made
no difference, the action of the brushes being quite audible
in the darkness, and on the gas being turned on, Mr.
Duguid was discovered painting a way. After the expiry of
half an hour the sketch was complete, and although not of
great artistic merit, was still a most remarkable picture to
be produced under such peculiar conditions. What in
Spiritualistic circles is called a “ direct drawing ” was then
attempted. A common card, coated with iodine, was placed
on the table before Mr. Duguid, whose hands and feet were
firmly secured with silk handkerchiefs. The gas was turned
off, and the company, joining hands, sang the 100th Psalm.
During the singing Mr. Duguid’s form was dimly seen, and
beyond a slight movement of the head, remained quite
stationary. After the lapse of about five minutes a rap was
heard on the table, and on the gas being lit Mr. Duguid was
found sitting as firmly bound as before, and on turning up
the card on the table, a nice little miniature landscape was
observed, the colours being quite wet and evidently newly
painted. Without attempting to give an opinion or explain
how such manifestations could be accomplished, we simply
narrate the circumstance, of the seance as they occurred.
As long as each day comes singly, each freighted with its own load
only, people can bear a great deal.—Phoda Broughton.
"Will some of onr readers oblige us by furnishing the names and
addresses of public lecturers on mesmerism, who perform experiments
before the observers ?
Captain R. F. Burton will leave London to-morrow for Trieste, and
from Trieste will visit Egypt. He may possibly return to England in
the autumn of this year.
On Monday, April 23rd, Mr. James Campbell will read a paper in
connection with Spiritualism, at one of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s
evening receptions, at 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, and
there will be a large and intelligent body of listeners on the occasion.
M. Pierart.—The death is announced, on February 14th, of M. Z. J.
Pierart, at the Druidic House, which he had established at St. Maur,
near Paris. M. Pierart was a Spiritualist, and author of several books
on religious subjects. He was also editor of the Benedictin de St. Maur ;
his last book was an important work on L’Histoire du Monde Primatif.
The news of his departure will be received among Spiritualists with
great regret.
168
T H E S P I RI T U A L I S T.
ArEii, 4, 1870.
MIRROR WORSHIP IN JAPAN. i
Pbofessor Ayrton lectured recently at the Royal Institution, his j
subject being “ The Magic Mirror of Japan.” In Japan there is, he i i
said, an absence of house walls, interior and exterior, the house con- i)
sisting of a roof supported on only a few posts, enclosing very little but i j
empty space, and sliding screens alone divide off compartments. Why, ; )
in this comparative absence of all that we should call furniture, does i)
one article pertaining to the ladies’ toilet—the bronze mirror with its I j
stand—hold so prominent a position ? This mirror is usually circular, | |
from three inches to twelve inches in diameter, made of bronze, and j )
with a bronze handle covered with bamboo. The reflecting face is j j
generally more or less convex, polished with a mercury amalgam, and | j
the back is beautifully ornamented with a gracefully executed raised j)
design. Some for the rustic population have also polished letters. j j
The explanation of the fact that the mirror is almost, par excellence, ] )
the entire furniture, is found partly in the elaborate head-dresses of the I)
Japanese ladies and the painting of their faces, and partly from the I (
belief that as the sword was “ the soul of the Samouri,” so is the mirror | j
the “ soul of woman.” It therefore constitutes the most valuable of all j )
her possessions, and two mirrors form part of the trousseau of every i {
bride. The characteristic qualities of the mirror must, it is believed, j j
be in accordance with the constitution of the possessor, and “ second | )
sight ” is resorted to in the. selection of a mirror. But why is the I \
mirror so important in the imperial palace, where the court ladies, still | |
preserving the fashion of old days, comb back their hair in the simplest I (
style ? Why does the fortune-teller, instead of looking at a girl’s palm, j (
regard the reflection in a mirror ? Why, instead of referring to the i j
book of the recording angel, does the Japanese Plato bring before the ! j
boatman his evil deeds reflected in a mirror? And why does the mirror j j
hold so important a place in Japanese temples ? The mirror ranks far i 1
higher in Japanese history than has been supposed; it, in fact, takes | j
the place of the Cross in Christian countries. | (
Professor Ayrton read the myth of the origin of the worship of the |)
mirror. The main points in it are that when the gods alone inhabited j (
the earth, the sun goddess one day hurt her hand with her shuttle, j (
having been suddenly frightened by a practical joke of her brother, the |)
god of the sea. She indignantly retired to a cave. Darkness followed, j )
and the goddess had to be appeased. The wisest of the gods suggested j j |
making an image of her more beautiful than herself. The Japanese j j j
Vulcan fashioned a mirror in the shape of the sun, and all the gods j \ j
laughed, and shouted, “Here is a deity who surpasses even your nj
glory.” Woman’s curiosity could not stand this. The goddess peeped j)!
out, and while admiring herself in the mirror was caught and dragged ! I j
out by a rice rope. The national traditions have it that this sun god- j j |
dess (Amaterasu o mi Kam), sending her adopted grandson, who was ] j j
also the great-grandfather of the first Emperor of Japan, to subdue the j (I
world, made him three presents—the maga-tama (the precious stone m
emblematical of the spirit of woman), the sword (emblematical of the
spirit of man), and the mirror (emblem of her own soul). “ Look,” she j (j
said, “ on this mirror as my spirit; keep it in the same house and on In
the same floor with yourself; and worship it as if you were worshipping I) |
my actual presence.”—The Times.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
H,—In the great names given through your mediumship, some of the lower
spirits are probably feeding your vanity to the full extent of its receptive
capacity. Judge the messages on their own merits, and the use they are to
the world.
Will be Published in a few Days. j j I
Cloth. Crown 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings. Post Free, i ) j
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES, | |
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
The book is full of evidence of Spirit-Identity. j (j
The Superfine Edition, bound in half calf, Eight Shillings and Sixpence, j ) j
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp, 234. Five Shillings. j j j
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE, j j
Being Short Essays on some important Questions in Religions j j
Philosophy. . j i |
By W. W. CLARK. | |
Contents:—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : Its Place j ] |
and Function — Religion and Dogma — Psychism and Spiritualism — The j ji
Philosophy of Inspiration and Revelation—Christianity: Its Divine and Human j j j
Elements. j |!
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.O.
Will be Published next Monday.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spirit¬
ualism, and setting forth his experiences.
With an introduction by
LI8ETTE MAEDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Now ready, the Second and Concluding Volume of the
MECHANISM OF MAN:
LIFE, MIND, SOUL.
A POPULAE INTEODUCTION TO MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY.
By EDWARD W. COX, S.L.,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Vol. II. Treating op the Mechanism in Action, Price 12s. Gd.
Vol. I. may be had, price 10s. 6d.; the work complete, 22s. Gd.
CONTENTS:
Part II.—THE MECHANISM IN ACTION.
Book I.—The Normal Action of the Mechanism of Man.—Chapter 1. Intro¬
ductory ; 2. The Action of the Material Mechanism in Health; 3. Of Un¬
conscious Cerebration; 4. Of Mental Sympathy and Communion; 5. Body,
Mind, and Soul in Health.
Book II.—The Abnormal Action of the Mechanism.—Chapter 1. Introductipn
— The Psychology of the Future; 2. How to be Pursued; 3. Objections and
Objectors; 4. Precautions in Research ; 6. Pi’epossessionand Dominant Idea ;
6. How we Know; 7. Scientific Evidence ; 8. The Plan Proposed.
Book III.—Of Sleep and Dream.—Chapter 1. What Sleep Is ; 2. The
Physiology of Sleep; 3. The Mental Condition of Sleep; 4. The Seat of
Sleep ; 6. Of Dream; 6. The Material Mechanism of Dream ; 7. The Psycho¬
logy of Dream ; 8. The Phenomena of Dream ; 9. The Philosophy of Dream ;
10. Conclusions.
Book IV.—The Phenomena of Delirium and Insanity.—Chapter 1. Delirium;
2. Insanity.
Book V.—The Phenomena of Somnambulism.—Chapter 1. Introduction ; 2.
Somnambulism; 3. Natural Somnambulism; 4. Artificial Somnambulism;
5. The Phenomena of Artificial Somnambulism; 6. Tho Physiology of Som¬
nambulism ; 7. The Psychology of Somnambulism.
Book VI. — Supersensuous Perception.—Introduction; Chapter 1. The
Phenomena of Supersensuous Perception ; 2. The Physiology and Psychology
of Supersensuous Perception.
Book VII.—Trance.—Introduction; Chapter 1. Tho Phenomena of Trance ;
2. The Physiology and Psychology of Trance.
Book VIII.—Psychism.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. Objections and Objectors ;
2. The Witnesses; 3. Psychic Force ; 4. The Methods of Investigation; 5.
The Phenomena of Psychism ; G. The Psychic ; 7. Tho Physiology of Psychic
Force; 8. The Directing Intelligence; 9. Phenomena of Psychism; 10. More
Phenomena of Psychism ; 11. Other Phenomena of Psychism; 12. Communi¬
cated Phenomena ; 13. The Physiology and Psychology of Psychism.
Book IX.—Tho Argument.—Chapter 1. Tho Summing up ; 2. Conclusions.
LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Just Published,
SPIRIT-IDENTITY,
By M.A. (Oxon).
Cloth 8vo, red edges, price 5s, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt,
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. Gd. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand)*
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. Gd., post free (Illustrated with diagram s),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
rVPRIL 4, 1879
THE SPIRITUALIST
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OP THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor oi
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens’ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals ;were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BTf ANDREW JACKSON DA.YIS
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer,”
Nature’s Divine Revelations . •
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „ •
The Seer. „ III. „ •
TheReformei „ IV. „ ...
The Thinker. ,, Y. . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....••
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. .
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People .
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual ....
Death and the After-Life ......
History and Philosophy of Evil .....
Harbinger of Health . . . . • . .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ....
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion ....
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers • . .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse .
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
. he Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . . . • .
»
*. <f.
IS 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 0
7 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 0
3 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
8 6
7 0
6 0
7
7
6 0
6 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 21 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . 2 6
Keys of the Creeds ...... fi 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History oi American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . is 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) , . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 o
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Trans.ated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. ...... . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 0
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. ... 1 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols . . . . . - . IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
800 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 Tor Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about thorn ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,’
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, IF. (7.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical."—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr Handson seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and ‘hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
Sews
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jenckon—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—^Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter Vi.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proof< of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardcc—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and i irnaments.
Chapter XIL—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opimons of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
I Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life —Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory —Guldenstubbe —James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and nanasomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes's
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin's discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, Jtl 108.
London: W. II. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O
Pries five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence ot—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E.H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B.Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown, to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E idence of Hon. It. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation oi
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists,
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hoops, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wvld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Conneetion with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post tree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxen) ”) and Is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ o ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship oi Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship ot
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium -
ship of Cora L. V. Tappau-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
YU.—An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stoliop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
Vltl.—The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life oj Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.
Oxon.”
XVII Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelina Von Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady ot Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burxe.
XXII —A Story of a Haunted House. By F J. Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blaelcwel).
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII —The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in, the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.l).
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV. — The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A, Oj.ou.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Predie don. liyAUce Worthington (Ennesfalien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Lelpzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voics of Conscience. Bv Alex.
Cald or.
XLI Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. ByLisette .viakdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G. S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 88, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
THE SPIEITUALIST
April 4, T879.
\r
Price 6d.; post free, 7£d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
'TlHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
L UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI-
O-IOUS CONDITION OE SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers. — This brochure. contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6|d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
A MARKED LIFE f’ or, The Autobiography
of a Clairvoyante. By Gipsy. (Sampson Low and
Co., publishers.) For sale at No. 2, Vemon-place, Bloomsbury-
square. Price 5s.
AT MRS. PARKER’S, 66, WARWICK
STREET, BELGRAVE ROAD, LONDON, a Philo¬
sophical and Developing Circle is being formed. Those wishing
to join will please send in their names. Terms on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing into
clairvoyance; she is replying to sealed questions when condi¬
tions favour. Office hours from 12 to 5 o'clock.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were-
true, that the raps and other no’ses governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiometer, and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Varley, Prof. ZSllner, and a great
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not’, they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
abmt the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little imponauce. Any table will do.
8. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a fee'ing like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
ti the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,1' and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
pLn proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany tuch manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. {should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARUISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton' and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
X. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay,—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. .“Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Yision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobhlejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past'; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The hook contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads.—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Jjay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some tejj or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success., .. To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
"An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”.
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; A.M. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.. .. They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
FromTTie Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Bristo i jJaiiy Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose esifays of tinequa
merit...' .’ The serious and sentimental verses belong to*the type
of Mrs!LfIt!mans’s or L. E. L,’s productions.” ^
Erom The Kensington News. • <
■!Ti: is " after the mailifer bf BRrham, Hood, 'Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in Itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and hold outspoken* thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”'
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejgw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a /mire'at the time.” [N.B. An
irate member oj the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw ballad-,," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them."] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also he had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject-in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash. Experimeuts—Public Exhibitions o
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and. Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric -
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S liritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of i’nrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom-
na—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
. From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabae was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to he expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as niniselt.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If out readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely hound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents... . The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and. provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us o/the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebedrers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling ■which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is f How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays,”
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:-Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes tiie
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications o»
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan
ity. Magic, Divination, Witcheralt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Hinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—^Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcrait—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical flints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thine—Cautions to be Student^-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Coneentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Wat
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIIIProduction of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of tli e
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Yisions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XYI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Cone udi-
Remarks, and Summary.
London: WO. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by BeveridGH & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Marla-lane, London E.C.
