RSGUSTKMD AS A NeWSPAPBU.
|f) joUXai{ otf ‘P^Ydfi;oi<oc(idS;r< >sdi^>fdk.
toiilj Spmfualbttt m. (5rtai gnfaitt. ■ : *
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St.Paul’.s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246.- Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G.- Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Lihraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
' Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
- Office. MEMPHIS. U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
r/ r No, 1010, Seventh-street. SJ . F * , : , - •,
Ko. 279.—(Vot. XL—No. 26.) - LONDON: FRIDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1877;. Published Weekly ;Price Twopence.
n aronteut^
Classes of " FSrBT'Maiiifestatiotis:—Forms with Flexible
Features—Fjptms without Flexible Features... ... ...301
The NatjonaliAssbciatidri of Spiritualists ’ ... *   302
Spirit and Soul.' ".By'George Harris, LL.D.,F.S,A. ...• ... 303
Psychological Phenomena ... ... ... ..." ... 303
Christian Positivism Tas a''Guide in;M0rals., By theKev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D. -...   ...   304
The Briti sh National Association of Spiritualists:—Seances
for.Inquirers ... ,\.'r ,.t 306
The Secretaryship of the National Association" of Spiri-
t* tualistq...: ... ... i.:,...’... ... ... ... ... 306
Man as a SpiritVr’By'George "Wyld, M.D. ...367
The Transportation of Drapery. By Sir Charles Isham,
Bart. ... .br ... ••.... ... ... b.’ ... b. 307
Mr. J. Simmons on Dr. Wyid's Theory. - By C. C. Massey-308
Form Manifestations—The Opinions of a BeincarnatiOnist.'
' By Enrico Bondi'  ... , ..1^ ... ... ... ...’•809'
Correspondence:—"What is. the Intelligence ?—’The Case of
Distress—"What Truth is there in Astrology ? 311
Mr. Crookes oh Dr. Carpenter's Attacks... ...  312
The Australian Editor on Tombstone Literature  312
ParagraphsSeances on the Premises of Mediums, 307 ;
A. Presentiment j ..." ..; ... .v.   ... ... 307
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics oj
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PBICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
TITHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries .throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science arid the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions iiiits columns are Mr. C, F. Vanley, C.E., F.B.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Scieriee” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
•xpressed no decided opinion a:s to their cause); Mr. Alfred B.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa-
t ion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Bight Hon. the Countess of
Caithness:% His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G.-Atkinson. F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the-Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. 0. 0. Massey,
Harrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyid; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer--
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
' dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci„ Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. G. Luxmqore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Sjtock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr.’S. C.
Hall. F.S.A.;, Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.B.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jeneken, M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling.
oury: Miss A. Blackwell.(Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze ;_Mr. J. M. Peebles’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
RTchardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London; 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. PauTs-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
oppiosite the Villa- Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, . Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai; Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, TJ.S.: 9, Montgbmery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-strect. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O. -
REICHENBACH’S RESEARCHES, by the
late William Greqoby, M.D.,'F.R.S.E. 455 pp.,
demy 8vo. Second-hand, in very good condition. Scarce.
10s. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London. W.O. :
W0BKS BY THE COUNTESS OP CAITHNESS.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
; Price 7s. 6d. .
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT,
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
* 38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda fok December, 1877.
Friday, 14fft.—Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ j, Library Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee's Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 18?/t.—Trance Address, at 8 p.m. Mr. W. J.
Colville.
Wednesday, 19?7i.—Inquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Friday, 21s£.—Seance Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Friday, 28th.— Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
- „ ' „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
CHRISTMAS CLOSING.
The Offices of the Association will be closed from December
24th to December 26th, inclusive.
MR. COLVILLE’S ADDRESSES.
Mr. Colville’s Meetings, which have been changed from
Saturday afternoons to Tuesday evenings, at 8 o’clock, are
free to members arid friends.
THE LIBRARY.
The sum of £5 has been subseribed by Mr. Peterson towards
a fund for purchasing additional books for the Library, pn
condition of a total of £30 being raised. Friends are in¬
vited to give their kind assist tnce in this matter.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, L0UGHB0R0U(H|-B0AD-NORTH, BRIXTON.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant-Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
All particulars may he obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary
Willesden, N.W.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
The soul, and how it found me •
being a narrative of phenomena connected with the
production ol England and Islam, by Edward Maitland.
Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
(fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C. j
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDDER’S pamphlet
on Curative Mesmerism, price 66.; also a pamphlet on
Clairvoyance, price 4d,- To be had from the author, 10,
Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
. 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
The object of the society is; to promote the study of
Psychology arid Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
- VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
THE OLDHAM PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY intend holding their FIFTH ANNUAL TEA
PARTY AND ENTERTAINMENT on Christmas Day,
December 25,1877, in the Temperance Hall, Horsedge-street,
Oldham. Tea on tables at four o’clock p,m. Tickets 9d.
each ; children under twelve years, 6d. each. Admission,
after tea, 3d. each. The Entertainment will consist of songs,-
glees, readings, recitations, pianoforte duets, &c., aided by Mr.
J. Hall, the well-known concertina player. Tickets may he
had from Thbs. Kershaw, ’ 8, High-street; J. Mills, butcher,
Union-street; or from any of the committee.
LANGHAMHALL, 43, Great Portland-street,
London, W. J. COLVILLE delivers an Inspirational
Oration followed by an Impromptu Poem (subjecls chosen by
the audience), on Mondays at 8 p.m. Admission free to
balcony. Reserved, seats 2s.; unreserved, Is.
Lancashire district committee
i OF SPIRITUALISTS. The following Meetings will
be held under the auspices of this Committee:—Bolton : Sun¬
day, January 6,1878, Mr. John Lament, of Liverpool, will give
Two Addresses ; also on Monday evening, January 7th, Mr.
Lament will give an Address. Liverpool: Sunday, January
6, Mr. Joseph Jackson, of Hyde, will give Two Addresses at
the Camden Hotel, Camderi-street. Morning at 11, evening
at 6.30.
The second annual new year’s
GATHERING OF THE LANCASHIRE SPIRIT¬
UALISTS. On Monday, December 31st, 1877, a general
Social Gathering of Spiritualists will take place in the
Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-street, Manchester, under the
auspices of the Lancashire Committee. Tea on the tables.
at half-past four. Chair to be taken at six, when an
Entertainment of Music will be given. Tickets for Tea and
Meeting, Is. each, after Tea,- 6d. They may be had-of the
Ladies’’ Committee, or at the door of the Hall. John
Lament, President; Charles Parsons, Secretary.
Mr. morse will speak at the
- FOLLOWING. PL ACES:—Liverpool: Sunday, Jan.
13,11 and 6.30,; Hyde: Monday, January 14, 8.0; Rhodes:
Tuesday, January 15,-8.0 ^Manchester, Wednesday, January
16, 8.0 ; New Mills : Thursday, January 17, 8.0 ; Littleborough :
Friday, January 18, 8.0; Oldham: Sunday, January 20, 2;30
and 6.30 ; Rochdale : Monday, January 21st, 8.0 ; Burnley:
Tuesday, January 22, 8.0; Bolton: Wednesday, January 23,
"8.0; Bury: Thursday, January 24, 8.0; Manchester: Friday,
January 25,8.0, John Lament, President; CM'rlca Parsons,
Secretary,
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 66.,paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5. -
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co -
Show Rooms 18o, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <&c.;
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Ohancery-lane, W.CS
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. . Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customer,'.
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends ami1
Coupons.. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from"
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in-the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
• t
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 28, 1877.
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF I
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President. »
Alex. Calder, Esq., I, Hereford-square. South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didshury, Manchester,
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
FItz-Gerald, Mrs.,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, \V.
Eltz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 9, Loughbbrough-road
North. Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jenc'ken, Henry D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, (j. C., Barrlster-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Bogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Teinpleman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo.,M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, IV. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N-, Eden-villa. Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, R.W.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborouglwoadj45rixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett. Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Blnney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94 Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H-. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, DesmondG.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd,North
Brixton, S.W.
FItz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendlnning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sbooter’s-hill, Kent,
fiayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, 'S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road", Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, F/., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. w. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21. Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould. Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C„ 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sir'awhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheaih, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, SW.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J, H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook,i[Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signer Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Ann a Blackwell, LaTresoreiie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sireet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Eranz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 98,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
II. T. Child, Esq., M D„ 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes;Esq.,33', Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq-, 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. d» B&ssompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussel*.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz,' President de FUnion, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, II, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel do 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich,.Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U..S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake.City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr.' Grunhut; Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J, W. Day, Esq:, 9,-Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Doiiblgh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Beigrave-road. S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Yasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixten Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixt|s4T$.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Biy ton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Soeiedad’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calie de Amedo, Mexico.
Sooiedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
-WORKS BY
EDWARD
MAITLAND.
V ¥ Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
l>OEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
JL LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the. rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
TO OEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
JET the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion hook to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. Tbe author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
A STROLOGY, a popular sketch of Celestial
XjL Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J. PEARCE, author
of the Weather Guide - Booh, &c. Price Is. London :
Berger, Newcastle-street, Strand. Sent post free by the
author on receipt of twelve penny stamps; address, 3, Cedars-
terrace, Lavender-hill, S.W.
“ This work is tbe best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacquainted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily understood idea of what it really is ; and before under¬
taking to learn anything about it by any of my own works, I
advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.”—ZADKIEL.
N.B.—The author gives private instruction in Astrology.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SOIENOE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JAl logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Xille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M, Leymarie.
. MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S, CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At .home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLAGE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.   -
SPIRITUAL HEALING OF DISEASE,
BY JAMES REGAN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, W.O.,
AND
141, CAMBRIDGE STREET, PIMLICO, S.W.
N.B.—Patients desiring personal treatment will please
make appointment by letter, which will receive prompt
attention. Curative appliances sent to those residing at a
distance on application.
MR. W. EOLINTON
Has returned to town, and may be addressed,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON
 S.W. .
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN,
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours,
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. • Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes. 
MADAME LLANCORIj,
At home from 11 till 4, for Music, Trance, Clairvoyance, and
Automatic Writing.
25, GUILFORD STREET, RUSSELL SQUARE.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
TT1 W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
■ B'J • engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired).
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.O.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borongh. Diseases given up by the faculty arenotunfrequentiy
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Maneell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment. 
RS. WOODFORDE, 90, Great Russell-
-LvJL street, Bloomsbury, W.O. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, from 12 to
5 p.m. For visits of friendship, from 8 to 10 p.m.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
KAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSENGER,
, ALMANAC and EPHEMERIS for 1878, containing
Predictions of the Weather and Mundane Events, Birthday
Notes, &c., &c. Post free, 7d. ; with Ephemeris, Is. Id.
Raphael's Guide to Astrology, containing rules and infor¬
mation whereby any person may calculate and judge a
nativity. The most original and simple work on Astrology
ever published. Cloth, gilt, 3s. London: J. E. Catty 12
Ave Maria-lane, E.C.   
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.   
TAKEN IN EXCHANGE, on Wednesday,
evening, December 5, at the Soiree of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, a gentleman’s hat, new,
with deep mourning band, and marked with a monogram
inside; maker, Truefltt. If the same is brought to 38, Great
Russell-street, the hat left in its place wiU he given in
exchange. ’
ffivP
©
3*
l9
J[ xif ]|-|trjf|$$ til il|^ mh ^i|tJj$ #1 ^jtnjiiurfbtu.
VojaUjviE Eleven. Number Twejmty-^ix.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 28th, 1877.
CLASSES OF FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
Observation shows that there are two great classes of
form manifestations; in the one class the forms appear
with living, flexible features, plainly visible to all the
observers, and in the others the features are rigid, or not
visible at all.
FORMS WITH FLEXIBLE FEATURES.
Sometimes when strong mediums, like Dr. Slade, are
sitting with their hands in full view, in broad daylight,
living hands and arms are thrust into view from some
position where shade prevails, usually from under a table.
These hands, when we saw them in Dr. Slade’s case, were
apparently the duplicates of his own, like the invisible
hands which do the writing on his slates, for the said
writing generally bears a very strong resemblance to his
own, tending to show that it was executed by fingers and
muscles like those of his own hand.
And this fact of the duplication of hands and forms has
been demonstrated in many ways during a long course of
years.
It was first well proved through the mediumship of
Florence Cook (Mrs. Corner); indeed, it was better and
more continuously tested in her case than in any other.
She frequently left her own home to present the phenomena
in the rooms and laboratories of men of science, and sub¬
mitted patiently to every test which they could devise. For
the last two years or so of her mediumship she scarcely
ever sat without being carefully secured with tapes, applied
by scientific and carefully considered methods by numbers
of responsible people; the knots were sealed with signet
rings. The upshot of all this was to prove that in some cases
a separate form, bearing a strong resemblance to herself,
was materialised ; also that the power about her could free
her, like the Davenports and other mediums, from any
kind of bonds, and return her to the same.
The same phenomena took place with the Davenports,
for there are records that when lights have been suddenly
struck at their seances one of the Brothers has been seen
in duplicate.
It is the same with Mr. Eglinton. The materialised
form bears a strong resemblance to himself, as testified to
at the last meeting of the National Association of Spiritual¬
ists by Mr. Fitz-Gerald. Moreover, in one case it was the
medium himself, for Mr. Stainton-Moses recently recorded
that, at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, Mr. Eglinton became
covered with white drapery, and that when his entranced
figure stood before them there was no medium on the sofa
where he had been lying. Mr. A. R. Wallace and others
searched him thoroughly after one of his sittings, and no
white drapery was found upon him. Yet had the form
been seized, plenty would have been obtained, and this
shows how much injury might be done by rough “ investi¬
gators” to the reputation of an innocent medium, the
subject of abnormal phenomena understood neither by
himself nor the sitters.
The late Mr. Samuel Guppy once printed in these pages
how through the mediumship of his wife (now Mrs. Volck-
man) he had seen materialised faces strongly resembling
her own.
With Mr. Williams a form appears, with a face strongly
resembling his own in the lines of the eyes and nose,
when a close view of it is obtained in a good light. This
form has sometimes appeared under good test conditions
in an open circle with no cabinet, and while the medium
was held by both hands.
Mr. C. P. B. Alsop has often seen in Mr. Herne’s pre¬
sence a form, the duplicate in features of that medium.
In the presence of Miss K. Cook a form appears, which
| on the one occasion we saw it had a face resembling that
| of the medium.
The forms once presented through the mediumship of
| Miss Showers, bore a strong resemblance to herself.
Mr. C. C. Massey and others can testify that at Miss
1 Lottie Fowler’s form seances, the faces strongly resembled
| her own.
Mr. Olive told us that Mr. W. G. Haxby’s recent seances
\ at his house, the faces had some similarity to that of the
| medium, but that some of them had beards,
Mrs. Fay’s spirit forms, as observed by Mr. Serjeant
I Cox, ourselves, and others, resembled herself, and were
| accompanied by undoubted evidence that the medium her-
| self was not presented.
The Blackburn Spiritualists are quite satisfied that Miss
Wood’s forms resemble the medium.
Thus it is well established that there is a class of mani¬
festations in which forms and faces, more or less the
duplicates in appearance of those of the medium, present
themselves to view, and that the intelligences animating
the forms claim to be spirits. These forms have living
flexible features, which are seen by all the observers, but
while they are visible, the medium is usually in a cabinet
out of sight; on other occasions his body, transformed by
| abnormal power, and released from the securest bonds, is
| presented to the gaze of the observers.
FORMS WITHOUT FLEXIBLE FEATURES.
In another class of manifestations, the medium is in full
| view, instead of in a cabinet, but the forms do not generally
! as yet under these conditions, present flexible features,
| with the life in them visible to all the observers.
Once, while Mr. Eglinton was held on both sides, at the
| house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, a draped form, with
| no features visible, rose from the floor behind him to a
| height of about two feet six inches, then sank again.
Sometimes when Mrs. Yolckman has been similarly held,
I not in her own home, a form has appeared in the same
| way, without the presentation to the gaze of all the ob-
| servers, of flexible, living features.
In the presence of Miss Cook, in Signor Rondi’s studio,
i a form appears while the medium is in full view; but it
I does not present living, flexible features,
j Thus the established manifestations divide themselves
i into two classes as yet—those with flexible, living features,
] visible to all the sitters, and those without flexible, living
| features, visible to all the sitters. We have patiently
I watched for years for a living, flexible face in a good light,
| which face bore no resemblance to that of the medium,
| and was not produced on his or her own premises. Hitherto
| this search has been prosecuted without success. ic:r
Mr. A. R, Wallace and Mr. Crookes have witnessed a
| great number of form manifestations, without once record-
| ing, that off the premises of the medium, they have seen
| a living, flexible, materialised spirit-face, bearing no re-
| semblance to that of the sensitive. Neither has Mr. Yarley
| made any such record.
We have been present at seances, on the premises of
| professional mediums, where perfectly honest and enthu-
! siastic sitters saw anything the spirits gave them a sug-
| gestion that they ought to see, accompanied by any objec-
| tive “ something ” which gave them a slight excuse for
I seeing the thing desired, Also, on the premises of me-
I diums, who afterwards proved not to be trustworthy, we
| have seen a few living faces, bearing no resemblance to
I their own. But, sweeping these things away as “ not yet
| proven,” one can but wait patiently for living, flexible
! faces to make themselves visible to all the sitters at once,
i off the premises of the medium, in a good light, .
302
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 28, 1877.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
During next year, 1878, the National Association of Spiritualists,
which has done such valuable work for the Spiritualistic movement, will
have no income except from the ordinary contributions of its members,
the “ three years’ guarantee fund,” specially subscribed by various friends
to strengthen it during its infancy, having expired. The Association,
therefore, has an onerous task before it, notwithstanding its steady in¬
crease of new members, and has to set to work energetically and with
unanimity to increase its income. The only certain and legitimate way
to adequately achieve this result, is to undertake such good public
work for the benefit of Spiritualists at large, that they cannot help com¬
ing forward as one man to strengthen the hands of the workers, and
this is all the more necessary, because since the Slade trial no public
question in which Spiritualists take any interest, has been before the
Council. Yet plenty of work can be found to do.
Would it not be well, for instance, to officially call the attention of
the Secretary of State to the fact that if a charge of imposture is brought
against any medium in any Court of Law, no evidence whatever, even
though it be strong enough to hang all London, will prove the phe¬
nomena to be genuine, consequently, that the application of the public
funds to the prosecution of the innocent, is a grievous injustice ? Other¬
wise, after adverse steps have been taken by the Government in some
such future case, the Secretary of State may reasonably plead, “ I did
not know these things. Why did you not tell me ? ” And Spiritualists
may then also say to the Council, “Yes, why did not you—our professed
representatives—point out this grievance to the Government when you
were at leisure, and in times when all was quiet ? ”
An old Mrs. Tranter was, as once recorded by the late Mr. Guppy in
these pages, sentenced to five years’ imprisonment, for pretending to
discover lost property, and the term of her sentence expires at about this
time; whether she was an impostor or not we do not know; but as a scien¬
tific matter of fact, lost property has sometimes been discovered by clair¬
voyance, and the question whether Mrs. Tranter’s was or was not a case of
genuine seership was not raised at the trial. In truth, the ignorance and
prejudice against some psychological phenomena are such, that one has
but to prove them to be real to secure the condemnation of the accused.
Would it not be well to officially point out to the Secretary of State that
laws exist on the Statute Book which are a direct hindrance to scientific
research, and which punish innocent people for telling the truth?
Until official remonstrances about such matters are put into writing and
delivered to the representatives of the Government, the latter can always
justly plead that they erred inconsequence of not having been properly
informed on the subject by Spiritualists. Clearly, the duty of giving
this information lies at the door of the National Association.
Then, again, mediums do not know exactly what to do, to shield
themselves from unjust prosecutions. If the Council, fortified by legal
advice, issued a circular telling them the nature of all the various
laws which -might be used against them, and suggesting to them what
to do, they would feel that a friendly public body was looking after their
interests. The state of the law as regards mesmerists—who probably
are not secure from attacks from the medical profession—might be set
forth in the same circular, thereby aiding healing mediums and others,
and perhaps saving future heavy money outlay, by absolving the
Spiritual movement from any moral responsibility to go to the expense
and trouble of defending at law, any one of them who might disregard
the printed advice.
Whether the Association should take important public steps like
these, or others of more importance which its members may plan, or
should not do anything of the kind, would involve arguments on both
sides in which the public would take great interest, and which they
would not submit to have settled for them in private. Other, and per¬
haps better public work than the above could be suggested to the
Council by some of its members, but beyond all doubt the prestige of the
managing body requires to be increased by the members thereof be¬
ginning, after such a long rest, to deal with something of public interest.
A committee has been appointed to consider what work the Council
should undertake during the coming year, and what changes it had
better make, but these questions in which private members of the
National Association are so much interested, should be settled publicly
by the Council itself, and not be deputed to a committee sitting in
private. Or, if these great public matters are to be considered in private,
more of the chief public men on the Council should be on the
committee, such, for instance, as Mr. Massey, Mr. Calder, Mr. Stainton-
Moses, and Dr. Wyld, whose public work over the Slade case has
earned for them the strong appreciation of all Spiritualists, and who have
considerable capacity for inaugurating broad and valuable measures.
If the Council does right to give to others the power of considering its
own great public questions in private, it ought at all events to put plenty
of representative men on the committee. One of the first things the
present committee has done has been in opposition to a recent unanimous
decision of the Council—to recommend an increase of the expenses of
the Association for three months, at the rate of say £25 a year (we do
not know the exact amount) for printing and posting an enlarged
monthly agenda. This may be a very good step to take when the
Association has funds for the purpose, or when difficulties in the way of
getting publicity shall be such that more than nine or ten persons feel
an interest in the existence or otherwise of the agenda, but at present
there is every reason why the Association should economise its funds.
The same committee recommended what may prove to be a very good
step if the Council is slow and careful in selecting fitting representatives,
namely, the appointing of local secretaries in the provinces. In point
of law, we presume that all debts a local secretary might contract in the
name of the Association, the Association would be bound to pay, which
is one reason for being careful in the selection of Such new officers.
The temporary abolition of the agenda would economise, say, £25 a
year. At least £50 a year ought to be gained by asking increased
amounts from thoso well-to-do people who enrolled their names as
| | members at the minimum subscription of the few shillings a year,
i 11 authorised only for the benefit of members who could not afford to pay
| (| more. The economy of those who took unnecessary advantage of the
j J; lowest rate of subscription, must have been disheartening to those who
| )! paid heavily to make good deficiencies. Morning Sunday services would
| (! possibly be remunerative from resulting voluntary subscriptions, if the
i [i discourses were of sufficiently good quality to attract most of the
I 11 Spiritualists who every Sunday morning are now to be found at the church
i (j of Mr. Haweis. Would Dr. Maurice Davies, the Rev. Stainton-Moses,
II i and others of like calibre, take part in Sunday morning discourses and
11! services, if invited ? An occasional trance speaker might also be
j i | heard. If suitable speakers can be found, and if one half the proceeds
i > i were devoted to payment for the use of the rooms of the British
III National Association of Spiritualists, and the other half to trance or any
! j i other speakers who could not be expected to officiate in an honorary
|} | capacity, the plan might perhaps work. Attention to these three
111 matters of detail may perhaps bring in £100 during the year, but the
i (I chief claim of the National Association upon the movement must rest
| j | upon its doing good public work, and permitting scarcely any future
| (| agenda to go out, without a notice of motion upon it bearing upon some
i j | great public question of interest to Spiritualists at large. It has been
11! disheartening to read the petty notices of motion about petty things
] (I placed on record during the year 1877, while great work for a great
i | j movement lay almost untouched.
|) | And if those new motions which are of public interest were to be
| (| brought on at the beginning of Council meetings, instead of at the end
jj j when the members are tired, it would be an advantage. The hurrying
| | of the red-tape and small routine work afterwards, would be a benefit
j (| rather than otherwise, and would give no time for petty disputes about
|! | petty things. Above all, it is desirable that all should work together
| /1 in' harmony, and that those who hereafter originate discord, or
i j grasp at positions to which they have not been invited, shall not be
|) j tolerated by anybody.
I j There is another point of view from which the delegation to the new
i (| committee of the duties proper to the Council may be regarded. In a
II short time each retiring member of the Council will have to go to his
i ( i constituents for re-election, and may then meet the response,—“ Why
| (| do you claim to be supported 1 During the whole year we do not know
| /1 how you have voted over disputed questions, because you and your col-
| (| leagues have never recorded or published the votes given at any one of
III your divisions. The Council has not this year taken up any public
|) j question, so we do not know what your actions would be in relation to
| (| any matter of public interest; and when matters connected with the
II j existence of the Association in which we are interested, inevitably
j j | cropped up, the Council abrogated its proper privileges and duties by
i (I referring those vital questions to a committee sitting in private, and did
i (I not even take the trouble to put on the committee several public men
! j I whom'we sent to the Council, and who had proved their efficiency in well-
i ( fought battles, such, for instance, as the Slade case. As some of your
j | i most important business has been done in private, and as you have never
j |! recorded the votes at divisions, how are we to know what are your claims
i (I for re-election ? ” The Rev. Mr. Whitear once published a letter in
i 11 these pages, complaining that he, as a private member, did not know how
| | his representatives were voting at Council meetings.
i (i Some of the permanent committees of the National Association of
i j | Spiritualists are doing excellent public work. The Research Committee,
i!| for instance, is trying experiments in relation to psychology, and is
| (i managing the interesting series of Monday evening meetings. The
i 11 Seance Committee also does work which greatly interests the public.
| ( i The actions of both these committees bring in new members to the
! (I Association. The Library Committee will probably begin to show signs
i) ] of life now that Mr. Stainton-Moses, Mr. Greene, and others have been
j) ! added to it. It ought to inaugurate some useful movement in connection
j ( | with the foreign literature of Spiritualism, which would enable the
i 11 Council to ask Spiritualists in foreign countries to join the Association
|| as ordinary paying members.
j ( j To sum up the points broached in this and another article about the
| >! National Association in this number of The Spiritualist, we think:—
! m A. That the future welfare of the National Association of Spiritualists
| | depends upon the Council at once beginning useful public work, of deep
i | | interest to all Spiritualists.
III B. That its welfare depends to some, but to a much smaller, extent,
| I upon attending to matters of detail connected with its interior manage-
! / | ment.
| | C. That the committee newly appointed, is considering vital questions
| j i which ought to be publicly debated and publicly voted upon at Council
| ( | meetings; that it is performing duties which properly belong to the
| ( j Council and not to a committee, and that it ought to be abolished.
15 j D. That in the event of the Council resolving that some of its own
| / | greatest public duties shall be performed by a committee sitting in
| ( j private, a great many of its most efficient public men should be added
i) I to the committee. The facts that, after a month’s deliberation, thecom-
j} j mittee did not recommend the Council to begin any interesting public
j j work, and that it did recommend an increase in the expenses, show that
j j! it requires new blood.
HI E. That the Correspondence Committee is a wholly unconstitutional
] (! body, entrusted with the private exercise of functions of an “ un-
])! English ” nature, and that its abolition would be of advantage to every-
! 11 body.
I s | F. That there should be a more regular attendance at Council meet-
| > | ings, of those professional and other members, who by legal or other
; I i training understand the principles of constitutional government,
j 11 In the hope that what is good in the above suggestions will be acted
i) | upon, and that what is bad will be rejected, we close by remarking how
] (i greatly the public are indebted to the members of that Council who
| j i have so freely for some years given their time and energies to the estab-
1)1 lishing of tho excellent institution in Great Russell-street.
i5eo. 28, 1871
HKk S3PIBITUALIS,r.
803
SPIRIT AND SOUL.*
BY GEORGE HARRIS, LL.D., P.S3A.
The supposition that man is endowed with a spiritual as well as a
material body, which serves as a sort of substratum for the soul to
exist or reside in, and which was held by some of the old divines and
metaphysicians during the early ages, arises from the consciousness of
a necessity for some medium of real existence for the soul, and from the
conviction that a being wholly immaterial cannot subsist by itself. But
surely it is at once more satisfactory and rational to concede to the soul
a real existence, than to deny it such an existence, and yet to endeavour
to atone for such a deficiency by annexing another being to it. Whether,
therefore, we grant to man a spiritual body, denying that the soul itself
has any sort of material existence, or whether we conclude that the soul
itself consists in a sort of spiritual essence, such as some suppose
annexed to the soul as its spiritual body, does not appear to be a matter
of very essential importance. On the whole, nevertheless, there seems j
to me neither warrant nor necessity for supposing the existence of |
such a spiritual body in our present state; although we may conclude
that after the resurrection, as indeed the Scriptures expressly assure us,
such frames will be annexed to our souls instead of the gross material i
frames they now inhabit. But if our material bodies are then to be
rendered spiritual, what will become of our already acquired spiritual |
bodies? We shall then possess two spiritual bodies of the same nature, i
which seems unreasonable. I conclude, therefore, that what is called
the spiritual body, is but in reality the substance of the soul; and that
what is by those contending for a spiritual body during our condition
in this life, believed to be the soul, consists in reality only, either in
certain of the qualities, or in certain operations of this being, which
they would thus reduce to a mere abstract nonentity.
Another important question may here be raised as to the nature of
these two beings, spirit and soul, which is whether they are in any case
separable and divisible one from another, as the body and soul are, or
whether they are always and necessarily united. If they are ever on
any occasion separable, then are they two distinct and independent
beings, and the one may act and exist wholly independent of the other.
But if, as will no doubt be contended by all who maintain that there is
a spirit as well as a soul within us, they are absolutely united and
inseparable—the soul never acting except through the agency of the
spirit—in that case I maintain, with the utmost confidence, that there
is necessarily only one being within us; that the soul is merely the
material substance or substratum of the spirit; and that the spirit is
but the active property of the soul.
Although we know not of the existence of the soul or spirit by sight,
as even our own eyes we are unable to see ;+ nor by corporeal feeling,
although it is by the soul alone that we really feel, because to feeling as
well as to sight it is too refined to be palpable; we are, nevertheless,
convinced of the actual existence of our souls through the medium of
consciousness, which is, as it were, the self-perception of the soul, and by
which we have as satisfactory an assurance of its real existence, as of
that of our material frames by touch or sight. It is, nevertheless, pos¬
sible that spirits might not only be existent, but about us, although they
are invisible to us,$ even supposing them to be material, which would
be the case if their substance was of a very fine transparency, greater
than that of water, or crystal, or the air, or certain gases ; or if they
were intangible, like the substance of certain fluids, as in the case of
electricity, which have at the same time great power. In a celestial
atmosphere, which we may infer to be specially adapted for celestial and
spiritual beings, spirits may not only be visible to each other, but to
spiritualised bodies also, and their energies and capacities may be then
vastly extended. Visibility and tangibility are, nevertheless, by no
means essential qualities even to all material substances, and cannot
consequently be necessary in the constitution of spirits. The wind and
many gases of the most powerful kind, as also electricity and magnetism,
we can neither see nor touch.
The spiritual constitution of man is, moreover, probably in many
respects strictly analogous to his material, and that in a variety of
ways. ||
The soul, or spirit, has been erroneously stated by some physiologists
to be the mere action of the brain and nervous system.§ As contrary
to reason is it to assert that a man who guides and conducts a ship is
the mere action of the ship. The brain and the nervous system may,
however, be made to act without the mind, which must therefore be an
independent principle of itself. And if it be objected, as an insuper¬
able difficulty to the existence of soul or spirit, that, although we are
aware of consciousness, we are utterly unable to conceive of soul,
surely there is a still greater difficulty in believing in consciousness,
without supposing the existence of soul also.
Of the several branches of knowledge which the mind of man is
capacitated to embrace, those which concern its own nature and being,
and the nature and being of existences of the same order with our
souls—invisible, immortal, and spiritual—are of the highest and most
transcendent description to which we can aspire. Of the real existence
of spiritual beings we are, moreover, as well assured as we are of the
existence of those which are material. That beings of this nature are
of different orders and degrees, we are also convinced. And so far as
we are able either to obtain information, or to reason upon the subject,
the variety of spiritual existences is quite as extensive as is that of
material beings.ll Probably, indeed, it is much greater, and may be of
* From A Philosophical Treatise on the Nature and Constitution of Man, by George
Harris, LL.D., F.S.A. London: Bell and Sons; 1876.
fMr. Wake well observes that positive science allows the existence of matter in so atten¬
uated a condition, that it can be known only by the effects of its motion; and that the mere
non-perceptibility of spirit is no proof of its non-existence.—.Cftapfers on Man, p. 293.
$ Dr. Henry More contends that the existence of apparitions affords an undeniable argu¬
ment for that of spirits or incorporeal substances.—of the Soul, p. 90.
|| Malebranche says that the inclinations of spirits seem to be in the spiritual world
what the motions of bodies are in the material.—Search after Truth, b. iv., c. i., s. 1.
5 Smee’s Instinct and Reason, pp. 12,16, 218.
.IT Locke appears to have been impressed with the notion that therejare “numberless
orders of beings, both above and below vs,—Essay on the Understanding, b, iiL, c. vi., s, 14,
an extent absolutely infinite. Indeed, to every animated material being
some spiritual existence may be supposed to be annexed. In addition
to which there are doubtless numerous spiritual existences, wholly inde¬
pendent of, and unconnected with, any material being or frame. If we
only bear in mind, in the lower ranks of creation, even in the insect
world, how many different species there are of animated beings, each
endowed with its separate independent order of instinctive intelligence,
we cannot but conclude that the diversities of spiritual beings or exist¬
ences, having relation to this order alone, must be at least equally
numerous with those orders. We must consider also what varieties of
animals there are throughout each order of creation in a corresponding
manner ; whence it is but reasonable to conclude that the several kinds
of spiritual existence correspond with those of animal creation, and
are as numerous and as extensive. How vast, and indeed almost
infinite, then, must be the variety of spiritual existences when taken
together through all their orders!
It may, moreover, not unreasonably be inferred not only that there
is, in many important and even essential respects, a strict analogy
between the soul and the body; but that as different animated frames are
endowed with various organs of several kinds, each respectively adapted
for the particular purposes they are specially intended to serve—some
being extensively, and in a very complicated manner in this respect
constituted, and others having but very little and very simple organisa¬
tion : so, among souls and spiritual beings, some may be gifted with
many and various faculties and capacities, while others have but very
few, and certain of them scarcely any faculties or capacities whatever,
but merely powers or endowments of a lower kind, not even intelligent
in their nature. And this variation may exist, not only among different
species of souls and spirits, but also to a large extent among different
souls and spirits of the same species.
If we proceed to take a survey of the universe at large, we must first
look up to God as the Supreme Head of it, both as its Author and as
the Being of highest perfection throughout the system. Then follow
different orders of purely spiritual intelligences, of which there must
be presumed to be as many, varying as much one from another in their
endowments and nature, as there are different kinds of animals in our
world. Next to these exalted beings comes man—a compound of them
and of animal nature; and after man succeed the several orders of
animals, commencing with those most nearly allied to him, and
gradually descending in the scale until we reach those who in their
constitution appear to be nearly verging on vegetation. The vegetable
creation follows the animal, commencing with that kind which is most
allied to the latter, and descending in the scale until we verge on mere
mineral creations. Last in the order, these and other inert and lifeless
productions, close the magnificent array of the Creator’s works.
PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
Mons. Vatttier, of Caen, recounts the following in the Revue
Spirits (Paris) :—
“ Dining with some retired officers, our conversation turned upon
M. Thiers, who, I said, now lives under another form. ‘ This is rank
Spiritualism,’ said one of my companions. True ; and I will add some
facts in keeping with this faith. One of my friends had made a will
in favour of her husband; but reflecting that, in case of her death, her
property would all pass to a family of strangers, she wished to revoke
it, and desired her husband to give it up ; but he absolutely refused.
The house, the furniture, everything was searched for it, but to no
purpose. Eight days later, when asleep a voice came to her and dis¬
tinctly said : ‘ You have searched a long time for the paper that has
caused your quarrels ; open the cartridge box and in the bottom of it
you will find the testament.’ It was there found and at once put into
the fire.
“ * Now let me relate,’ said one of the captains. (My wife was once
J chloroformed, and began speaking English with a British accent. The
| doctor asked if she were English. Greatly astonished myself, I
|] declared that she did not know a word of that language, and had never
i j been in England. I could not comprehend it, and still seek a solution.’
11 ‘ The spiritual doctrine,’ I replied, ‘ explains it. In another existence
!j Mme. X. was English.’ . . . The doctrine of a plurality of existences
11 was declared to be full of good sense.
j “Subsequently, as we strolled along the shore, admiring the
I grandeur of the sea, I related the following: ‘During the siege of
Rome in 1848,1 had for a comrade a sub-officer of my regiment to whom
1 I was much attached. One morning I found him waiting outside of
j our tent with a face pale and haggard. Asking the cause, he said :
! ‘Within three days I shall be dead.’ ‘You have been dreaming,’ I
replied. ‘ No, it is not a dream,’ he added, ‘ for my poor mother has
distinctly told me this morning : ‘ Prepare yourself, my child ; within
| three days you will be with us. Have courage, and God will reward
you.’ ” I employed all the means I could to distract his attention from
| the subject. ‘ Friend,’ he replied, “ I thank you for your good heart;
but it is of no avail.’ Three days afterward the cannon roared, and
| we placed together tirailleurs on the platform of a house, did our duty.
The explosion of an obus broke the leg of my comrade. That night
j from loss of blood he passed away. He had. told the doctor of the
uselessness of his efforts, and crossing his hands upon his breast, the
brave young man died without a murmur.”—Dr. Ditsonin the “ Banner
of Light.
i(i The recent correspondence on Astrology in these pages does not
j)i appear to have demonstrated that there is much truth in that ancient
|)| art. One of the predictions about the war was not fulfilled, and the
\l\ fulfilment of the other might have been coincidence. Correspondents
| [ I would do well to keep to the main point—whether there is truth in it—
l*‘ before dealing with its methods.
304
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 28,187?.
CHRISTIAN POSITIVISM AS A GUIDE IN MORALS.*
BY THE EEY. C. MAURICE DAVIES, D.D.
Next to the advantage of not being unduly elated by
success is the faculty of being able to utilise failure; and
I hope that we who have met here the last few Wednesdays
may show ourselves to be possessed of the latter. There
is no question that the plan I formed has failed utterly.
On the first occasion when I lectured here the benches
were pretty well empty, through insufficient notice having
been given—at least, so I flattered myself then. On the
second, Miss Kislingbury offered a counter-attraction, and
I could not, of course, complain. Last week my notices
were all out in good time. I scattered them far and wide,
devoting a good deal of time, and a great many postage-
stamps to the work. Not only did Spiritualists not come,
but they did not even with one consent make excuse.
Of course, therefore, this will be the last occasion on
which I shall ask you to meet me as heretofore. I have
not by any means given up my plan, far from it; but I shall
carry it out even more quietly than I had at first intended.
I shall issue no more collective invitations, and publish no
record of results. I am, I confess, a little surprised,
because some of the people who have been conspicuous
by their absence were continually urging me to organise
something of the sort. I do so. I get a hall, generously
lent me by one gentleman, and a lady kindly comes, at
personal inconvenience, to aid the musical portion of our
plan; and really the only response I get (with the one or
two exceptions alluded to before, and the few who have
supported me here) is from a certain lady wrho says she
does not care about the religious aspect of Spiritualism,
but likes to hear Joey squeak. I have not a word to
utter against Joey; and can only say, “Every one to their
taste.”
It may not be irrelevant to add that the outside world
has been somewhat more responsive than the inner circle.
One gentleman, a provincial journalist, and a perfect
stranger to myself, who read the report of my lecture in
the Spiritualist, wrote to me, “ I cannot help telling you
that I am more pleased with your new idea and definition
—“ Christian Positivism ”—than any other that I have
yet met with, assuming, as it does, to cover a long-tortured j
but ever-fascinating subject to the intellectual circle. I
should like to see your fine essay scattered, snowflake-
fashion, among the clergy of all faiths. Such men as
yourself give the question a religious emphasis, and good
people pause to listen to your evidence.”
|| Do they ?”
Last week I spoke of the effect which that system we have
been calling Christian Positivism might be expected to have
on previous belief, and we came to the conclusion that it was
likely to be eminently conservative, or, at all events, the
reverse of destructive. It might be expected to tighten a
person’s grip on the broad facts of Christianity without of
necessity interfering with any views he may have on the
subject of Church government or matters of that kind in
the particular communion to which he might belong. It
would make him at once catholic (in the best sense of the
word) by making him eclectic. We hoped that we had
removed a prevalent objection, in so far as we established
that point, because some people say—Did it not shake
your Christian faith when you took up with these new¬
fangled notions ? On the contrary, it tightened our hold
upon it. For faith it substituted knowledge. Theology
became an inductive science. But it at least led you away
from your church or your chapel, if it did not shake your
creed ? The very reverse. It led us to discern a substratum
of truth in all denominations, while it did away with the
foolish ambition of finding an ecclesiastical Utopia any¬
where.
So far all might have been satisfactory. Some people
are content to be “perplexed in faith but pure in deeds''
How about the morality of the matter? That is our
present subject.
Speaking parsonically, the question narrows itself to
this, and assumes the familiar form of a sermon, text and
all. If a person believes that communion exists between
* A lecture delivered at 249, Oxford-street, London. Wi h. reference to the opening
remarks, we think that very few Spiritualists knew that Pr. Davies was delivering these
addresses,—Ed.
I the unseen world and this world of sense and sight; that
I the beloved ones gone before can and do communicate
| now as they did during the great forty days centuries ago;
j if we believe that, in this sense, the grace of God has ap-
| peared, will that be likely to prevent men from living soberly,
| righteously, and godly in this present world ? or will it
| have an opposite effect ? or will it, on the other hand (as
| our experiences here might seem to suggest), have no effect
I at all, but simply leave people just where they were before?
j Of course, we who hold the doctrines we have summarised
| as Christian Positivism believe that this proved closeness
! of the spiritual world does help a person to live soberly,
II to do his duty to himself, to live righteously, to do his duty
| to his neighbour, and to live godly; to do, as far as man
j may do, his duty to God. There is nothing, at all events,
j very immoral in this. We feel, in fact, that we have—not,
! perhaps, found out a new sanction for moral or religious
| duty—but very much deepened those which already existed
| by putting into its due prominence—from which it had
| unaccountably retired into the background—that article
j in the Apostles’ Creed, “I believe in the communion of
I saints.” What saints? What communion? Well, just
| that communion and fellowship with our own household
| saints which we claim to have established on clear induc-
| tive evidence, and after patient observation and experi-
| ment.
1. Taking those three spheres of Christian duty, I would
| suggest that you should ask yourselves what would be the
| effect upon each of a growing consciousness that the land
where our beloved ones are resting “ after life’s fitful fever”
is not (as we once deemed, a land that is very far off: that
they are not very far off, but close by us, and able to com¬
municate with us, and—still more, perhaps—to see us as
| we are, and to influence us and help us to be better than
! we are.
We may take as a foregone conclusion, that we do—
| we, at least, who are in earnest on this subject—want to be
| better than we are. We want, in the words of Faber’s
I exquisite hymn) “to sin no more.” We want to be as
| pure on earth as those on that bright shore.
Now, in the matter of this inner purity, lying, as it
| does, at the very basis of all morals, would it be calculated
| to make a person less pure if, under the conditions of
| Christian Positivism—after prayer, that is, and all the
I other adjuncts of devotion, he sat down to spend, by an
| act of deliberate volition, “ an hour’s communion with the
| dead?” Of circles held under other conditions I say
| nothing. Who am I that I should judge ? All I ask is—
| What, if we argue on the grounds of ordinary experience,
! would be likely to be the effect if a person so fortified with
| prayer and devotion sat down and felt that he was in more
| than commonly close communion with some beloved one
| gone before to that land where all are pure ? Could such
| a person fail to be, for the time being, at all events, pure
| himself? And is not that really all we can hope to do in
| a state of things where we are surrounded with low or bad
| influences, to seize such exceptional opportunities as this,
j and ever and anon be better and purer than at ordinary
| times ? Is not this the meaning of our church-going or
| our chapel-going ? Is not this the effect of Sunday on the
| rest of the week ? And surely the effect of such communion
| is not lessened upon us when it takes what we may call a
domestic aspect—when, instead of a fellowship with those
who are so far above us in the ranks of spiritual existence,
it is, we believe, the touch of a vanished hand and the
sound of a voice that is still, which form the connecting
links for us between this world and the unseen.
That is a phase of the matter which I commend to your
j earnest attention—the way in which a realisation of the
| closeness between the natural and the spiritual worlds
| would act in the way of fostering inward purity; making
| a man live “ soberly ”; giving him power over self, over
j thought, word, and deed—a sphere in which, as we know,
| we are mostly so powerless, and in which the attainment
| of anything like power is the best result of that self-
| knowledge set down as the highest wisdom of all.
For myself, I cannot believe that the conviction a dead
| parent, or a lost child, or a departed friend, was standing
1 close by, would be likely to make a person’s thoughts im~
THE SPIKITUALIST.
305
Deo. 28, 1877.
pure. On the contrary, I think that such a basis for a
person’s duty to himself would be likely to prove more
solid than even the assurance that our sins caused grief to
God’s Holy Spirit, or made angels sorrow as our repentance
makes them joy. Christ spoke not only of angels, but of
those “in the presence of the angels of God,” who joyed
over the repenting sinner. Who are those in presence of
angels, think we, but those very ones in fellowship and
communion with whom we, as Christian Positivists, feel
our belief clearly proved ?
II. But next, as to the social duties of life, would this
belief teach a person to live righteously as well as soberly
—to do his duty to his neighbour as well as to himself ?
Might not the tendency be to shut a man up in himself—
to make him visionary ? Might it not tend to foster religious
selfishness'} Just as some people’s charity not only begins
but ends, at home, so some people’s religion has what we
may call an insulating effect on them. Would not this
danger be likely to accrue from the possession of such an
exceptional privilege as you are supposing? We protest,
of course, against that word “ exceptional ”—the privilege
we assume is certainly not exceptional. Its first marked fea¬
ture is that it lies open to everybody. It is, before all else,
a catholic faith. The next feature in point of importance
certainly is that it does draw out (as we said) into pro¬
minence that one word—communion. How mean we ?
Why the earliest fact which is brought home to our con¬
sciousness is, that those whom the world calls dead, are
not only not dead, but not even sleeping. Quite the
reverse.
In place of that old orthodox torpidity which (when any¬
thing at all was predicated) was always assumed of the
departed, it puts unwearied activity, incessant and intense
anxiety to communicate, to influence, to console. Your
experience has shown you this. Let the co iditions be
only, so far as you can make them, favourable, and there
is no dearth of evidence that they who have passed “ to
where, beyond these voices, there is peace,” do not avail
themselves of the power they no doubt possess simply to
enjoy that peace themselves. No : their wish is to com¬
fort those who mourn, to steady them in the ways of
goodness; to assure them of God’s mercy, as opposed to
prevalent ideas of God’s mere power. They do not work
by. fear, but by love. They do not instil ideas of exclu¬
siveness, but of comprehension. Surely they teach us to
go and do likewise. The moral of every such communica¬
tion must be, “ When thou art converted, strengthen thy
brethren.”
Comparisons are odious, we know, and there is no need
to institute them, or, at all events, unduly to dwell upon
them. But is not this a danger incidental to many excel¬
lent schemes of morality that they lack this cohesive
force ?
Pharisaism is, in one word, the special danger of the
moralist. “ Stand by, for I am holier than thou,” is the
tacit principle of many a man who would be a very good
one if he could get that one disintegrating force out of his
moral nature. He lives purely, but he does not live
righteously. He can talk with the tongue of an angel—
but he lacks charity, the very bond of peace and of all
virtue. What else but this is the cause of our caste
system in society ? Class is set against class. Bich and
poor stand aloof from one another as in the days of Dives
and Lazarus. The stronger sex ousts the weaker from
many spheres where woman’s weakness is far superior to
man’s strength. Magdalene might never have stood by
Christ’s cross or watched at His grave. He might never
have said to the sinful woman, “ Neither do I condemn
thee. Go and sin no more.” Society is merciless as the
code of Draco to anything in the shape of scandal.
. Supposing that were the principle acted upon by those
who have clearly got one step nearer to God than we
—however far they may be from Him still—should we ever
realise any communion and fellowship at all ? Is not the
best teaching that of example ? Is there any other teach¬
ing at all which tells, in morals ? If they hold communion
with us—they in their pure world beyond, with us who
are such as we know ourselves to be—and yet betray no
consciousness of stooping, who are we that we should
)! hold ourselves aloof from any? Do they not beautifully
vj repeat the object-lesson Christ taught when He worked
J| among the publicans and the harlots?
) | Suppose—as we are supposing—that a person lives in
j| the full persuasion (grounded, like belief in a scientific
11 fact on sufficient evidence) that he is living in constant
)| close communion with those who have gone before, and
II that he can at any moment prove such communion by
| positive appeal to sight or sense, could such a man be
| harsh, and unkind, and intolerant ? If he did so, it must
(| certainly be in spite of his creed, not as a deduction from
| it.
1 If your lost parent, your buried child, your departed
I friend, can, as you believe, see you through and through—
! see all your swervings, even from your own standard of
| purity, your poor, impotent efforts to hold yourself in
| check, you will know, and the conviction will grow upon
| | you daily and hourly, and it will develop in this way—you
|) | will say how dare I be angry with that little child ? How
i I dare I expect a poor ignorant servant to understand things
||| as I do ? Or, on the other side—from the point of view of
I j Lazarus instead of Dives—why should I be hard on that
| | rich man, that starched official, that rigid disciplinarian?
| | Why do I not put myself in his place, and ask what the
|j| inevitable tendencies of his position must be?
|| | In one word, sympathy is the cardinal virtue that is in-
| | stilled into us, again by example, not by precept, directly
III we realise the fact how on the horizon of this world the
| | seen and the unseen meet. Once understand how much
i j those who loved us best must have to excuse in us, every
| | day and hour of our common life, and there will be no
j | need to put the ungracious question, “How oft shall my
|| brother sin against me and I forgive him—until seven
| | times?”
i | HI, But lastly (for I wish my farewell words to be few
I I to-night) many good persons at this point may say, I grant
j | your premises, but I deny your conclusions. Such arguments
M as you are using are applicable to bring a man to Christ, or
| | to lead him to seek the aid of God’s Holy Spirit, and that
| would be sufficient. That we concede, of course. But what
| we do not concede, is that the recognition of this inter-
| mediate agency would at all lessen the force of Christ’s
j example, or diminish a man’s sense of the need of the
| Divine Spirit. Quite the contrary again. It would teach
| him, not only to live soberly, not only to live righteously,
| | but also to live godly in this present world. Our church
| | recognises the ministration of angels. Belief in the com-
| | munionof saints stands, as we have seen, a clause in the
j | apostle’s creed. If the angels, in their gradual hierarchies,
h if the saints whose names blazon our calendars do not trench
| I upon the honour of their Master, or lead us to depreciate the
| | aid of the Holy Spirit, why should this be the case when the
| I angel is one who was once for us an angel in the house, or
I | the saint not one whose name is written in the calendar, but
! I written on the fleshy table of our hearts, consecrated in
| | Christmas memories, canonised in loving recollections ?
I Do we not see that here, as in other cases we have cited,
| | it is really no new system we are inculcating, but only the
‘i I extension of the old. The tendency of such a system is to
| | make our religion not from life a thing apart, but to bring it
j I down to thh level of everyday life ; and I ask you from your
j | own experience, and as a matter of fact (Christian Positivism
| | deals with experiences and facts), is not that the missing
| | link with most of us ? Our faith is too external to us. It is
| | not bound up with our being as other belief—not technically
I'j j termed faith—is, the beliefs on which we act instinctively in
ill the affairs of life. Make this religious belief like other
I ! belief; make it a matter of experiment, and observation,
j | and evidence. Then the same characteristics may be expected
| to apply to it. Can we do so ? We say you can. But we
j | ask you above all else, not to take that assurance upon trust.
1 | Prove it for yourselves. Faith at second hand is no faith at
I I all. Faith at first hand is hardly to be discerned from
| I knowledge.
I That was the way, recollect, in which this matter came to
| | me twenty years ago. “ It may make men believe in God.”
I | That is the way I have been continually catechised ever
| | since I even looked at the phenomena in question. Does not
KI the thing tend to impurity ? Only by perversion ; only as
30&
TftE SPi^IttALlSl
Dec. 2S, 1877.
the devil can quote Scripture for his'purpose; only as fire
is a good servant but a bad master. If you plunge recklessly
into associations of which you may not guess the dangers—if
you rush in where angels fear to tread, if you do not hedge
round this communion with all the safeguards you possess,
—if, in one word, you do not treat it as a high and holy
thing, then, of course, one cannot answer for consequences.
Supposing these conditions observed, then certainly the
tendency is to promote purity not the reverse. Would it not
degenerate into sectarianism, and cut you off from your
church? Why so? There is simply nothing exclusive or
sectarian in the matter at all. It teaches duty to God and
love to man. It teaches the very words we shall now so soon
hear read in church at Christmas, and which I am conscious
have served to night as text for a veritable sermon, “ that
denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly,
righteously, and godly in this present world, looking for that
blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God
and our Saviour Jesus Christ,” which shall ensue when we
put off this corruptible body; and, passing to the other side
of the communion of saints—so to say—see as we are seen,
and know as we are known, grasping at once by intuition,
the great fact towards which we can only grope by the light
God has given us, among the mists and darkness that
shroud this valley of the shadow.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCES FOR INQUIRERS.
On Wednesday the 12th inst., the usual weekly seance oi
enquirers was held at the rooms of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
the circle consisting of twelve, including the medium, Mr.
Eglinton. At no period was th§ room in darkness; even
when the gas was lowered there was sufficient glow from a
fire to enable those nearest the cabinet to see what was going
on. It was a very harmonious circle, and the best possible
feeling prevailed. The medium’s sleeves were sewn at the
elbows and cuffs behind his back, and his wrists were tightly
knotted together with strong tape; he was then placed in
the usual position partly within the cabinet, with his knees
protruding, and even before the operation of pinning the
curtain in front had been completed, the voice of “Joey”
was heard speaking to him. “Joey” now objected to the
insufficiency of the test applied, observing that the elbows
had been tacked together so slightly that it was almost
impossible to prevent the thread from being broken; and at
his request stronger measures were adopted, and the medium
replaced. The first manifestation (for which “ Joey ” apolo¬
gised) was the very familiar sound accompanying the vigorous
use of a pocket-handkerchief, which was repeated during the
sitting, the medium having previously complained to us of
having cold in the head.
Mr. Eglinton’s ring was thrown out of the cabinet, and
the strings of the Oxford chimes were twanged while the
instrument lay upon his knees; nothing, however, visibly
touched the strings, and “ Joey” explained that he was able,
through the curtain, to project sufficient power from his
materialised hand, which he repeatedly showed, and which I
felt on three occasions. A musical box weighing twenty-
eight pounds was taken into the cabinet from the medium’s
knees, and was set going, and stopped at the request of the
sitters; also the chimes, which appeared to move freely
about the cabinet. One of the sitters was Mr. C. E.
Williams, the medium, and some of the articles on the table
at the other end of the room being seen and heard to move.
Joey being appealed to as to who was responsible for this,
replied, “ Why, it’s Peter.” One of the sitters was allowed
to enter the cabinet, and, while testifying that Mr, Eglinton’s
hands remained in statu quo, the materialised hand made its
appearance to the sitters.
It should be observed that, in consequence of the laughter
and merriment which prevailed, in which the medium joined,
one of the fastenings round the medium became broken,
which Joey discovered, and having demanded some tape, he
tied up the medium in a remarkably effective manner, as
was visible when the knots, &e., were inspected at the con¬
clusion of the seance.
| | The sitting lasted an hour and a half, and was full of
I I variety and incident. Those present who had some experience,
111 pronounced jt one of the most satisfactory they had attended;
I | while others, who witnessed the phenomena for the first time,
j j expressed themselvas as fully satisfied of the existence of a
| | power external to the medium.
|H| - Wm. Newton, F.R.G.S.,
| \ Member of the Seance Committee in Charge^
I I THE SECRETARYSHIP OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
I |; 'OF SPIRITUALISTS.
| ! Some time ago we pointed out in these pages that in two classes of
j \ | public organisations each has its own class of secretaryship. In the
| [ i one a competent secretary is selected and entrusted with all the usual
| I duties of the post, as with Professor Huxley at the Royal Society; in the
II other every fragment of authority is taken away from the secretary,
jj i whose duties are then performed with delay by various committees,
|| | thus reducing the secretary’s work’merely to the posting of letters and
| (] the making of entries in books, so that the office becomes one which
| j nobody of good standing can accept. The latter class of organisations
!|1 are inferior to the first, and less influential in their nature and con-
|( | stituent elements. The office of secretary to the British National Asso-
> j ciation of Spiritualists was originally formed on the higher model, and
i when the first step in its deterioration was taken, by giving to a Corre-
(; spondence Committee a portion of the proper duties of the secretary,
] attention was called to the act in these pages. The results of that
I action are still in force. At the present day if any letter from any
(j private member of the National Association of Spiritualists is addressed
I to the Council, the Correspondence Committee examines it, and decides
(j whether the Council shall be made acquainted with its contents or
j not. That committee consists of four gentlemen, one of whom is
I frequently abroad, and it is a committee which ought to have no ex-
| istence in an organised body with a good constitution and efficient
| officers. Another step towards the deterioration of the secretaryship
I was proposed at the last Council meeting, when it was suggested that
| the secretary should not as heretofore perform the literary work of draw-
| ing up the monthly agenda for publication, but that a gentleman
/1 (who was named with or without his previous consent) should be
(I appointed to help her. We do not know whether this was done at her
(| request, and because of a complaint of hers that she could not do the
|! work, or whether the suggestion was made without consultation with
(I her at all, in which case, giving her an unasked colleague, without
| j setting forth any public grounds for so doing, was not nice. But,
| whether the suggestion was made with or without her consent, our point
I is, that the proposal is another step in the degradation of the office of
! secretary, tending to bring it to such a level that at last only some
| j very ordinary clerk will take the place, and it is quite certain that the
(| great body of the members of the National Association of Spiritualists
11 do not want the office so lowered that they can no longer offer it to any-
j body whose name or abilities would confer lustre on the body at large,
i Fortunately, by the rules a month’s notice must be given before any
j important downward resolution like this can be attempted to be passed,
j so that the Council will have full time to consider whether it is a step
i j desirable to be taken, or otherwise; also, to consider who among the
) i men of ability whose names occur not unfrequently in the list of mem-
[ | bers of the Council, would be generally recognised by the members of
11 the National Association of Spiritualists as the most competent literary
> | man for the new office. The selection of the right man is a matter for
| ] very careful deliberation. In the lower class of organisations, where
i ] people inexperienced in public life have torn away every vestige of autho-
11 rity, every symbol of honour, and every mark of confidence from their
11 secretary, a nonchalant clerk is found on the premises, where the
members would prefer to meet somebody who could talk to them on
1 j the subject in which they are chiefly interested. When bills have to be
paid, or any business transacted, it is never expeditiously performed;
| the nominal and helpless secretary says, “ You must wait till Mr. A. or
| B. comes, or for the meeting of such and such a committee three weeks
] hence ; ” the caller then departs, regretting his wasted time, and wishing
| that a respectable secretary represented the people with whom he was
dealing. An organisation of this class—to the level of which it is to be
hoped that the National Association of Spiritualists will never fall—is no
honour to its secretary, and the secretary is no honour to the. organi¬
sation. The reverse of this is the case with Professor Huxley and the
Royal Society, where the example is practically set on both sides of
i “ in honour preferring one another.” We have watched the working of
j both kinds of organisations, therefore feel it to be a duty to call attention
| to each downward step suggested to the Council of the National Associa-
] tion of Spiritualists—for the degradation is always effected by steps—
so that if the bottom of the ladder shall at last be reached by the
organisation, that result will not have been achieved, without public
attention having been called to each act of descent, in time to stop it, if
the Council so desire, and, in so doing, our responsibility to the public
ends.
We have addressed no letter to the Council for a very long time, for
the simple reason that it is not a pleasant thing to have a -letter perused
j in private by persons to whom it is not addressed, and who decide
whether it shall or shall not be allowed to reach its destination. No
doubt others of the outside public will feel the same. Moreover, members
| of the Committee might have strong personal views about the contents
of letters from the public, and in consequence of possessing an advantage
| over their fellow-members on the Council, through gleaning the contents
of communications beforehand, they might have time to formulate a
sufficiently strong and unconsciously biassed ex parte version of the ideas
I contained in the letters, to influence the Council to deal with them in a
Dec. 28, 1871
TfeE SPIRITUALISE.
307
wrong direction. The committee not only decides what written intel¬
ligence intended for the Council shall reach its destination, but not aline
can be put in the monthly agenda without its consent '; so it also com¬
pletely governs the outward flow of intelligence from the Council to thp
members. It is as irresponsible as a Star Chamber, for, although it has
been at work for one or two years, it, so far as we can remember, has
never given in a single report setting forth what work it has done, nor
has it been asked to do so. If it should continue to exist, a good name
for it in future would be “The Reading-of-letters-not-addressed-to-it-
Committee.” Letters addressed by the public or by members to the
secretary are most of them overhauled by this committee.. Many will
ask how a committee with such unconstitutional powers ever came into
existence. Through the mistakes of two persons. The secretary, by
an act of indiscretion, wasted much of the time of the Council by
reading a long and objectionable rigmarole of a letter, which ought
not to have been read, but should have been laid on the
table, and merely reported upon; the Council could then have ordered
it to be read in full if it chose. A member present, naturally enough;
but with too little consideration, suggested that thenceforth a committee
should examine the correspondence, and prevent the time of the Council
being so wasted for the future; and the committee has since been exer¬
cising in private, complete control of the flow of documentary and
printed knowledge to and fromthe Council. The proper remedy was to
have told the secretary to thenceforth perform the duties of the office
more efficiently, or . On the motion of Mrs. Makdougall-Gregory,
Mr. Algernon Joy will probably at the next Council meeting be re¬
appointed honorary secretary, to the general satisfaction of everybody.
As the secretary will have the power to ask his aid about difficult
matters, and, in addition, to seek the advice of the chairman, if
necessary, there is surely no necessity to waste the valuable time and
energy of the members of an unconstitutional committee in the further
performance of their present work. Their powers can be liberated for
utilisation in some more useful and legitimate direction; and as the
work of all the members of the committee is generously given freely to
the public, it will be as advantageous to them as to the public interests,
if they are set free to attend to more urgent matters.
MAN AS A SPIRIT.
BY GEOKGE WYLD, M.D.
In the last number of The Spiritualist there are several
criticisms on my paper, to which I will attempt briefly to
reply.
First, Mr. White is “puzzled to account for my statement
that Swedenborg tells us that spirits can summon to their
presence any simulacrum desired.” On reading Mr. White’s
notice of my paper, I thought it better not to write to him,
but to give myself the satisfaction of calling on him and
further explaining my views. In the course of a short but
interesting conversation, we appeared to find our views
much in accord. Swedenborg does not express his views
in the exact language which I employed in the above quo¬
tation, but generally his doctrine is, “ Spirits surround
themselves by the forms of their affections, mental, organic,
and inorganic,” and this, I still hold, justifies me in using
the form of words I employed.
I hope I succeeded in convincing Mr. White that my
views are not “ paradoxical,” and that he is perhaps in
error in supposing that “ Dr. Wyld is wiser than he
knows.”
The title of Mr. White’s letter should, I think, not have
been “ Spiritualism without spirits,” but “ without foreign
spirits.”
In my paper I narrated how Mr. Everett informed me
that he was ignorant of how the handcuffs were removed
from his wrists, as he, the moment they were removed, felt
himself entranced.
Mr. Whatley, in reply to this, advises me to visit Messrs.
Hamly, 231, High Holborn, who for one guinea will show
how it is done. I took Mr. Whatley’s advice, so far as
visiting Messrs. Hamly, but did not part with my guinea,
as Messrs. Hamly explained to me that they could release
themselves from ordinary police handcuffs, but they seemed
scarcely prepared to release themselves from handcuffs
specially manufactured, and locked with a patent key.
However, I think the Experimental Committee of the
British National Association might with advantage expend
one guinea in the prosecution of this subject.
The paper in your last number, signed T. J., seems to
me a very interesting confirmation of my views as to
spirits presenting us with copies pretending to be originals.
Our best artists are sometimes deceived by copies of
their own works; how much more easily can the spiritual
actor or artist deceive, it may be, partially biologised
Spiritualists.
I would strongly urge all Spiritualists who dissent from
or misunderstand my views, to read at least the first
volume of Madame Blavatsky’s book. They will find it
an almost inexhaustible mine of facts and thoughts illus-
| trating the statement that man is a spirit, and as such
| has, if worthy, dominion over matter.
In conclusion I must again remind my readers that I do
| not say that all spiritual phenomena are produced by our
own spirits, but that, as spirits of the living, we have
identical powers with spirits of the departed. The fact,
however, is, that our spirit, when entranced, is a departed
spirit.
I 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde Park, London, W.
| THE TRANSPORTATION OF DRAPERY.
) BY SIR CHARLES ISHAM, BART.
With regard to spirit clothing, I never heard “ Lenore”
speak with such assurance as when she on one occasion told
j me that her dress was not spiritual. She said it was brought
to her by the spirit “ Florence,” but where it came from she
did not know ; it might have been taken from Miss Showers’
wardrobe, but she had not seen anything like it there. She,
| however, repeated in the same emphatic manner that it was
| “ not spiritual.” One would have supposed that she would
| have wished it to be thought of spiritual origin, whether it
| was or was not so.
j(! Lamport Hall, Northampton.
I | On Thursday evening next, the 3rd January, Mr. J. J. Morse will
]|j address a meeting of the Dais ton Association of Inquirers into Spirit-
i) j ualism, at their rooms, 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane, Hackney Downs,
: E., when a large number of his fellow members and friends is cordially
> invited to attend. Chair to be taken at 8.15 p.m. prompt,
j Me. W. J. Colville will deliver trance addresses at 429, Oxford-
street, next Sunday at 11 a.m. and 3.15 p.m., and a third at 15, St.
j Peter’s-road, Mile End, London, at 7 p.m. Next Tuesday, at 8 p.m.,
he will give a “New Year’s Address” in the trance, at 38, Great
Russell-street. He gratefully acknowledges the receipt of .£1 from
j Colonel Earle towards the expenses of his meetings.
I The new volume of The Spiritualist begins next week, and the
m subscription for 1878 is 10s. lOd. post free to any part of the United
j Kingdom; orders to be addressed to the London branch office. There
I I is already a considerable increase in the orders for the United States
ijl during the coming year, and we send the new subscribers there the
|(| present number in addition, in order that they may see more of the
i | discussion on form manifestations now in full force,
j j Seances on the Premises of Mediums.—In America the movement
[)j has suffered severely through Spiritualists endorsing phenomena pre-
ijl sented on the premises of mediums, without first quietly waiting for
Hi the occurrence of the phenomena through the same mediums on the
J / j premises of disinterested people. In consequence of this carelessness,
I HI the Blisses (who had also genuine powers) recently perpetrated great
] frauds in Philadelphia for a long time, and gave the movement a ter¬
rible blow. By the last mail comes news of the exposure of a Mrs.
Bennett, who gave seances at a house in Tremont-street, Boston, in a
front and back drawing-room separated by folding doors, and who let
into her cabinet from upstairs through a previously locked side door, a
I substantial healthy-looking female ghost, weighing “ about one hundred
and sixty pounds.” Fortunately, in this case the exposure was made
I by Spiritualists. The details are printed in full in the Boston Herald
I of Dec. 5 th last. The phenomena through any medium should be veri-
| fled by their frequent occurrence off his or her own premises, before
| they are endorsed as genuine.
A Presentiment.—The Springfield Republican contains the follow¬
ing particulars about the case of presentiment recorded in these ^pages
last week:—“ In March last, while the ill-fated United States steamer
Huron was lying in the harbour of Port Royal, S.C., Lieut. Arthur H.
Fletcher, her executive officer, left the vessel on a twenty-four hours’
leave of absence, and, failing to return at the expiration of that time,
the ship sailed for another port without him. A few days after Mr.
Fletcher returned to Port Royal, reported to Commodore J. H. B.
| Glitz, * senior naval officer president,’ and stated to him that for some
time past he had a presentiment that if he went to sea in the Huron for
the purpose of finishing the cruise (two years) he would be wrecked.
I This feeling took complete possession of his mind, and he used every
means to get detached, but the Navy Department refused to order it
without a better reason. When he found all his efforts had failed he
left the Huron in the manner stated, with the intention not to return,
j For this he was placed under arrest and tried by court-martial at the
i Washington Navy-Yard in August last; In defence he made a state¬
ment in substance as above, and called Commodore Glitz, Commander
George P. Ryan, of the Huron, and other officers, to prove that before
leaving the ship he had told them of the dread—in fact, horror—he had
of finishing the cruise in the vessel. This is a matter of record, on file
in the Navy Department, and, though such a line of defence was laughed
at when made, the fate of the Huron will cause many superstitious
i I people to think that Mr. Fletcher’s premonition was fully proven to
11 be a true one by the wreck off Kittyhawk, N.C.”
308
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 28, 1877.
MR. J. SIMMONS ON DR. WYLD’S THEORY.
BT 0. C. MASSEY.
Though agreeing myself, generally, with the views ad¬
vanced by Dr. Wyld and Miss Kislingbury, I think it may
be interesting to your readers to see some remarks on the
other side of the question, from one of the most intelligent
Spiritualists it has been my fortune to know—I mean my
friend Mr. J. Simmons, the agent or associate of Dr. Slade.
I quote the following from letters I have recently received
from this gentleman.
“ I must say that, during all the years in which I have
been engaged in the investigation and promulgation of
Spiritualism, things are constantly being advanced which I
am unable to accept (comprehend, may better express it).
One of these theories is the possibility of one’s own spirit,
or the spirit of the medium, producing phenomena of which
the medium may or may not be conscious. I cannot assent
to this proposition for many reasons. I will only give you a
few of them. As far back as 1851 or 52 I became developed
as a medium for answering questions, &c., through the tilt¬
ing of the table. This very question of my own spirit taking
part in and assisting the movements forced itself upon my
mind so strongly, that my scepticism was keenly aroused.
There being no one to whom I could appeal, I kept my
thoughts to myself, and continued my observations as quietly
as the circumstances would permit. What first began to
raise doubts in my mind was, that when a question was
asked verbally, I could many times have given a correct
verbal answer instantly; and then in waiting for the same
answer to be given through the tilting of the table—as it was
sure to follow—I fancied that I unconsciously moved the
table. Often, to reassure myself that I did not, I would ask
for the movement to be changed in such a manner as to pre¬
clude the possibility of my having anything to do with it;
which I am happy to say was always accorded me. I may
add, that mental questions were responded to as readily as if
spoken. In mentioning this to Dr. Gray, the intimate friend
of Judge Edmonds, only a few years ago, he answered me
by saying that what had caused doubt with me, was the
strongest evidence of the influence of spirits. His theory
was, that on a question being asked, the answer was imme¬
diately formed and projected from the spirit addressed”
(I suppose Mr. Simmons means the spirit present, the ques¬
tions being, as I understand, addressed to himself); “ that
I being the medium through which the influence passed, my
own mind or spirit caught the impression, and I could have
answered the question inspirationally as well.”
Upon this it may be remarked, that the necessity of resort¬
ing to Dr. Gray’s theory depends much upon the nature of
the questions, and whether they could have been answered
by thought-reading.
“ During the summer and autumn of 1860 I furnished a
home for a very remarkable medium. He was then prac¬
tising with good success as a clairvoyant physician. If
possible, he was more unlearned than myself. His controls,
however, were able to defend themselves in discussing the
causes and treatment of diseases with an able physician
and surgeon, a neighbour of mine, to which discussions it
was interesting to listen. This young man always carried
a pencil and paper in his pocket. He would often be
entranced when walking alone, or in company, along the
country roads. On coming out of the trance, he would
immediately feel in his pocket, where he would find written
on the paper what he was required to do. Sometimes he
Would be directed where to go and find a certain root, plant,
or flower, and having obtained them, how to preserve or
prepare them for future use. At one time his stock of
medicines became quite reduced. He passed into the trance,
and gave me the names of a long list of articles, and the
quantity of each which he required. The list was sent to
Detroit, and in a few days the goods were received. I am
quite sure that I was unacquainted with their names and
properties; the same may also be said of him. If this was
his unconscious spirit, I can only say he did the young man
great injustice by keeping himself in the background, and
allowing the youngster to plod his way through life as he
did.
“lam quite satisfied that what I have said about my case
is often applicable to Slade, when questions are answered on
i| the slate. He, being much more sensitive, often hears the
I answer spoken. This hearing often comes when sitting
j quietly; he will tell me what is being said to him, which I
| have every reason to believe, because so many times has it
I been verified. Again I say, if Slade’s unconscious spirit
| possesses all the ability that it sometimes manifested through
| him, I think it high time that he should assume the indi-
| viduality, and allow the conscious Slade to retire for the
| balance of his earthly life, at least.”
The same may be said of the exalted powers evinced in
i certain mesmeric states. The powers of the human spirit are
| like a heritage, of which the permanent enjoyment is deferred.
! Nothing is better established than that the normal con-
! sciousness does not exhaust or exhibit either the knowledge or
the power that is latent in us. In a later letter, Mr. Simmon’s
says :—
“A few words about Miss Kislingbury’s experiments in
will-power with Watkins. That, by interposing our will,
|) we may, and often do, give shape to the intelligent commu-'
j nications, I admit, but there we stop. What moves the
j pencil? In regard to the independent writing, I think the
j| will of the medium, and of that of any other person, would
|| | aftect the manifestations. In all such experiments we see a
!j | direct violation of necessary conditions, viz., passiveness on
j> [ the part of both medium and sitters. One would hardly claim
|| | that either Miss Kislingbury or Watkins was passive on the
| | occasion to which she refers. What was the result ? the
| j individual spirit who moved the pencil, finding, on meeting
j( with these opposing or cross currents which interfered to
| prevent his doing what he otherwise might, is compelled to
| fall in with one or the other, and in that groove he has no
j difficulty in moving the pencil in accordance with their will.
| Here is one of the greatest drawbacks in the investigation of
j the subject. So few persons are able to sit down and bring
I the mind to a passive condition. May not this explain why
| committees seldom obtain any remarkable phenomena com-
|! pared to what takes place in private circles, where confidence
H i is established, and all are satisfied to wait for what may
[ | come ? Every member of a committee feels it incumbent on
j | him or her to observe strictly every move that is made, in
j | order to be able to give intelligent reports, therefore it follows
| | that not one of them is passive mentally. On some occasions,
| j in order to overcome these forces of will, the influences have
| | found it necessary to entrance Slade during the time the
I writing was taking place.”
j Would it not be more to the purpose if they entranced
: j the sitters, whose active wills contribute the disturbance?
; “In that condition they seem to be able to increase their
power, so as to overcome the obstacles that otherwise pre-
! vented their writing.”
These obstacles must be in the mind of the medium. This
i is rather a confirmation of Dr. Wyld’s view, for otherwise the
writing could be produced as well under disturbed conditions,
what is written would be affected. Is it . not that
the spirit or soul force of the medium must be active for the
production of the phenomenon, and for this purpose its
activity must not be drawn down and exhausted in the
conscious sphere ?
“On Slade’s return to consciousness, he is much reduced
in vitality, and we have to resort to stimulants to prevent
entire prostration, which sometimes, however, is unavoid¬
able.” ^
This is not, I believe, in accordance with mesmeric expe¬
rience.
I> As it is now nearly certain that the duplicated limbs of
the medium are instrumental in many physical phenomena,
little difficulty need be felt in accepting the view that the
pencil is so moved. And as we find the most intimate con¬
nection between the course of physical phenomena, and the
wishes, habits, and expectation of the medium, we are almost
driven to put the two things together, and thus to account
for the great majority of phenomena familiar to investigators,
p And many more are drawn into the same category, which,
from the nature of the intelligence shown, seem at first
| inconsistent with it, by the recorded observations of the
mesmeric state, from which it appears that “ thought-read-
| ing ” is not confined to the present context of consciousness,
but extends to past and forgotten impressions, stamped
1 upon, or floating around the psychic element, or, as the
Dec. 28, 1877.
I1 HE SPIEITUALIST.
809
occultists have it, the “astral light.” What remains is
knowledge displayed which has never been in the mind
during its earthly experience; and as to this I certainly
cannot accept as satisfactory Dr. Wyld’s suggestion that
the unconscious spirit has sources of knowledge other than
those afforded it by the conscious experience of the person
to whom it is attached, or of those en rapport with him.
It is certainly possible that the spirit is informed by other
spirits, and thus it is possible to remove the agency of the
latter, but hardly altogether to dispense with it.
FORM MANIFESTATIONS.—THE OPINIONS OF A
REINCARNATIONIST.
BY ENKICO BONDI.
Since Miss Cook’s return to London, after spending a few weeks at
Parkfield, near Manchester, as the guest of Mr. Charles Blackburn,
I have again had the opportunity of regularly attending the seances
for the development of her powers, which seem beyond doubt to be
increasing daily.
The first seance was held on the 23rd of October. No visitors but
myself were in attendance, as it is Mr. Blackburn’s desire to keep these
seances private, at least for the present, with the view of allowing the,
spirits to develope the medium’s powers as far as possible without the
interference of those ignorant curiosity-hunters, who go to seances, not
with the desire of gaining knowledge on the subject, but simply to
pass an hour, and to laugh and scoff at what their brains cannot yet
understand and receive.
I think that every earnest investigator ought to praise Mr. C.
Blackburn for so doing, because long years of experience have taught
many Spiritualists that even old believers in the spiritual phenomena
cannot at once understand, receive, and appreciate, the grand mani¬
festations known as form materialisations. Not a few go to seances,
not with the view of observing and studying (as every one ought to
do) even the most particular and minute facts which occur, but they
go simply from curiosity to “ see spirits ; ” and when their desire has
been gratified, and they have found, as sometimes is the case, a re¬
semblance between the medium and the materialised form, such as
that which often exists between sisters, their verdict is given at once
by saying, “ It cannot be a spirit, consequently it must be the medium;
nay, it is the medium himself.”
Such persons do not observe many incidents which happen during
the seances, and would have been more than sufficient to convince and
persuade any one that the materialised form is not the medium, but
another person, quite distinct in feature, in manners, and in height.
These objectors are, generally speaking, Spiritualists or non-Spirit¬
ualists who attend seances with prejudices, and not with the view
of investigating and carefully examining these wonderful mani¬
festations.
Since I began investigating these phenomena with Miss Katie S.
Cook, I have had the honour of receiving in my studio twice the
Prince G ; the Baron and Baroness Adelma Yon Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand), a well-known author of several works on Spiritualism ;
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the eminent naturalist, and a few other per¬
sonages of distinction ; and I am happy to state that these expressed
themselves very much pleased, and highly satisfied with the form
manifestations they have seen through the mediumship of the young
lady ; so also did Colonel Rogers.
The Prince G , who is an old investigator, and who carefully
examined every minute thing which occurred during the seance, before
leaving my studio, asked me if I had noticed a particular fact. I
replied that I had noticed it several times previously. “ Well,” said
he, u that fact alone ought to be sufficient to convince investigators
and sceptics if they pay the least attention at the seance.” “ Yes,”
said I, “ but how many do attend seances for the purpose of investi¬
gating the phenomena ?Yery few indeed, as the majority of Spirit¬
ualistic seances are now held for amusement, and for passing an idle
hour.
On another occasion, also at a seance with this wonderful medium,
the spirit Lillie stepped forward, wearing a long, beautiful white robe,
and Mr. Alfred R. Wallace asked to be permitted to touch and feel
her dress. Lillie at once granted his request, and, having done so, he
remarked that a large box would be necessary to pack away all the white
drapery in which the spirit was clothed, and that he had never
seen a spirit before with such a powerful gaslight as we had that
evening.
Mr. Wallace and I also examined quite closely the features of the
spirit, and found nothing of the medium’s likeness; but some who
have attended thought that there was a likeness. This proves with¬
out doubt that every one sees nature with different eyes. This must
necessarily be the case, otherwise the Hottentot and the uneducated
classes would be able to enjoy the beauties of grand works of art—such
as Greek statuary, the works of Michael Angelo, and the grand
“Transfiguration” ofRaffaelle—when we well know that they have not
the power. However, I fully hope, ere long, to be able to take the
likeness of this good and highly intelligent spirit, as I have done of
another, and to show the difference between the two.
It is indeed a melancholy consideration that Spiritualism, whose
direct tendency is to promote the happiness of mankind in the present
life, as well as in the life to come, and which so effectually answers
the design of its Author, whenever it is well understood and sincerely
believed, should, through the ignorance and bigotry of some, the
) superstition and ambition of others, be kept back from its full develop-
j ment.
| Priests teach us to believe that in bygone ages angels descended
) j from heaven to declare peace between man and his Maker; but now
(i they forbid us, not only to believe that the same angels called by us
) j “ spirits ” can come as they did in former times, but from the pulpit,
(i and with unseemly rage, they preach against the doctrine of spirit
j communion now so prevalent throughout the civilised world. They
)| prohibit us from having anything to do with it, as if the spirits who
( descend now to teach "and prepare us for the future life were not the
{ same angels as in ancient times, but demons,
) But, if the opposers of spiritual facts were priests only, we could
(j soon find the motive and solve the problem of their so doing. It is
(j more surprising, however, that some men of science do their utmost to
)| cast dark shadows over these wonderful manifestations of spirit power
(| now witnessed constantly by millions in every part of the world. They
(j do their utmost to discredit Spiritualism, both as a doctrine and as a
) I science; nevertheless, it seems that experience, and the exercise of
reason enlightened by the spiritual philosophy (for Spiritualism claims
(| a philosophy apart from its phenomena), have already cured a great
) many.
| . Spiritualism is indeed a new philosophy, but with a vast literature
j which for variety of thought has no parallel whatever; and if those
) who denounce Spiritualism, and treat those who believe in the pheno-
| mena as suffering from an epidemic delusion, had perused a few
j i among the hundreds of volumes already published, they would have in
)| sooth shown themselves in a better light and less magna ignorantia
j jl on a subject of which they know nothing.
111 However, some have already publicly acknowledged the reality of
|) the modern spiritual manifestations, and that communion with the de-
!! parted ones enlightens the mind with respect to doctrines ; also that
j it teaches us how to die, and to fear not when the period arrives for
j the spirit to leave the body ; that it helps us to quit the mortal form
( in peace and tranquillity, and to enter with full confidence into that
{ unseen realm where so many generations have preceded us. It teaches
|) us that death is not the termination of human existence, but a change
111 into a new life, in which we continue without interruption the long and
! i indefinite chain of work begun in countless lives ere we inhabitated
j j this planet of ours.
11 These constant and inevitable transformations during successive
11 lives our spirit is compelled to undergo for its benefit, and we
| j shall progress until we reach such a high state of development
( that we shall be able to understand the Infinite Ruling Power
| of love and wisdom, whence everything emanates, and unto which
/ everything will return, but in a better, higher, and purer state. This
| ( state can alone be attained through incarnation in a material
! 11 body. At “ death 1 we but leave one scene of action, kindred,
|) | friends, and acquaintances, to enter upon another scene, there to meet
||| again relatives and friends and to enter into other ties. When the
i | j chain is broken on this side, we shall find it united on the other, and
j) we shall then bend our faculties to the unfoldment of a future eternal
i j j life, for in that life we must progress.
||j The advocates of reincarnation meet with many objectors. When
|) I speaking with a friend of mine a few days ago, who is a learned Doctor
|1 of Medicine, he asked me if I should like, after leaving this sphere, to
II i come back again. In answer to his question, I asked him if he likes
j j j at night when he is called for, to get up and go out to visit patients ?
j 11 He replied that he did not. ‘‘ But,” I asked, “ do you go 1 ” “ Oh
m yes, I do.” “And why?” said'I. “Because my professional duties
|| compel me to do so.” “In like manner,” I replied, “if it is the wish
I j| of Divine Providence that I should come here again to enable me to
i|| progress to that state of development indispensable to entering into
j)| another sphere, higher and better than this, in sooth I cannot under-
III stand why I should refuse to obey the orders of the great and holy
II j Spirit who only knows from what motive He has sent us. I ask, could
|) | we refuse to obey Him 1 ”
III Therefore, if I have a lesson to learn for my own benefit, if I have
! | j work to do that no one can do for me, I am firmly convinced that I
j 11 must do it to rise one step more in the long scale of knowledge and
j j wisdom, the top of which, however, we shall never reach. The sins
jjl committed by us cannot possibly be washed away by others, conse-.
|) I quently we must purge them out of ourselves.
What matters it in which room we study and learn the lesson ?
i|| Duty compels me, consequently I am bound to obey. Undoubtedly, if
j/i I were allowed to choose my own work, and the place for doing it, I
i 11 should not select this planet again, as I really do not think I should
i | have selected it this time had the choice been left to myself. But
!) i again, I ask, can we do our own will ?
Ill I now leave this very important and intei*esting subject to better
| | pens than mine, that it may be clearly explained to unbelievers, and
ili to those who not only cannot yet understand, but feel a reluctance to
| | think of it. I hope such writers will prove that the doctrine of re-
! I incarnation is not, as some have styled it, a “ contemptible and
m abominable, and a doctrine of devils,” but, on the contrary, a doctrine
; i leading us to live a better and purer life. The letters from my learned
I I friend, Signor Damiani, and many other reincarnationists, printed in
||| The Spiritualist, are now read by many with great eagerness, and no
i(i doubt ultimately will do great good, since the teachings are calculated
II i to give a peace to humanity which no other doctrines have succeeded
| /1 in conferring yet.
. j|j So much for the philosophy, now for some of the facts. I do not,
III however, trouble myself if some of my readers scorn the doctrine as
j | well as the phenomena, remembering that a great many such scoffers
!y are daily joining our circles, and seriously investigating what they had
s| not long ago proclaimed to be imposture and delusion. Now they
||| begin to admit that there is “something in it,” and ere long they will
i(i equally acknowledge that there is more than “something,” but a
310
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 28, 1877.
'‘great deal” in it. I now close with a record of the seances, remem¬
bering the old adage, Magna est veritas ab pravalebit,‘s.nd trusting to
its full and ultimate victory.
Since I recorded my last sSance with Miss Cook in this periodical,
t’he apartment-has been altered, so I think it advisable "to state that
the medium now sits in the back parlour, divided frop the front by
folding doors ; one of these is shut, and a curtain put up to cover the
other. Miss Cook sits in a low chair, a yard or so from the front door.
I always lo6k the door leading to the passage, before the seflwce com¬
mences. The windows of both front and back rooms are closed with
ordinary Venetian blinds. One evening the circle consisted of Mrs.
Cook, Miss,. Edith Cook, and myself. We took our seats at eight
o’clock. The spirit Lillie spoke immediately, and, after a conversation
of a quarter of an hour, she asked me to go inside, and to hold the
medium’s hands. I did so, and remained about twenty minutes ; then
. she asked mo to leave. Accordingly, I left the medium and took my
seatbut, on turning my head towards the curtains, to my utter as¬
tonishment I saw Lillie standing close to them looking at me. I asked
her several questions, which were auswered in the most eloquent lan*
guage ever heard from this spirit. She spoke at length upon form
materialisations, and described how she materialised; the modus
operandi, however, differs entirely from that suggested by several in¬
vestigators, viz., the Rev. Stainton-Moses, the Rev. Thomas Colley,
and many other distinguished writers. I received on this occasion
many important particulars on the subject, never told before, which
details I hope to be able to give in full in another article which it is
my intention to write.
I then asked the spirit if she could give us some new phenomena,
and I suggested two. Lillie, after having consulted her spirit guides,
told me that the first proposed could not be produced that evening, the
atmosphere being against that kind of physical manifestation ; but that
she would try the second one. “ Follow me, then, and take the
medium out,” she said. I immediately rose and followed her; but
before I was near the medium the spirit had vanished. I awoke and
took Miss Cook out; she rested against the folding door with the
curtains partially opened. I took my seat half a yard from the door,
near Mrs. and Miss Edith Cook, In a few minutes the spirit made her
appearance from behind the medium ; her face, however, was covered
with a veil. Sitting, as I have said, close by and facing the door, with
a good light coming through the back window, I could clearly per¬
ceive every movement of the spirit in going and coming several times,
and moving about the room. Miss Cook was then perfectly conscious,
speaking to us and to Lillie at the same time.
After this experiment, Lillie asked me to hold the medium’s hands
and speak to her, to prevent her from going to sleep. I did so,
and While standing close to her, with her hands in mine, and con¬
versing, I clearly saw the white form evolving near the medium, and
coming forward, with her face partly uncovered, and as white as
marble. I then asked the spirit to allow me to feel one of the feet.
At once she consented. I left the medium’s hands, and knelt down ;
the spirit then put her foot on my right hand ; it was rather cold.
Wishing to try another experiment, I asked the spirit to rest herself
upon my hand, which I put flat on the floor, close to the medium’s
boots. The spirit had no boots, and she rested upon my right hand
with considerable weight.
After this, I again held the medium’s hands a considerable time.
Lillie remained close to the medium, but gradually sank down to the
floor, leaving only a little piece of white drapery visible. She again
gradually grew up to the height of three or four inches above the
medium’s head. This experiment she repeated several times. When
speaking now and then to the materialised spirit, I noticed that her
voice was much lower than when the medium was in the trance state.
On the following Friday (26th) the same phenomena were repro¬
duced, but more clearly than at the previous seance. While Miss
Cook was standing, resting herself against the folding door, Lillie told the
medium to s;t down ; Miss Cook moved away and sat, but the spirit re¬
mained by the open curtain, speaking to us. I then asked her if she could
sit down before us, as I had several questions to ask her. A chair was
close to the door, in the front room ; I had myself placed it in such a
position that Miss Cook could rest her hands upon it. Lillie stepped
forward, took the chair, and sat down as a lady would do, and so re¬
mained conversing and answering all questions, put by Mr. Cook, Mrs.
Cook, and myself, for more than a quarter of an hour. Afterwards I
requested her, as a favour, to show us some materialised hair, as she
had done once before. Lillie rose, closed the curtains, and in a few
minutes returned in front, her head uncovered, but with a quantity of
hair falling down. In a few minutes, while she was standing quite
close to me, it grew four or five inches longer. She asked me
to feel it. I grasped a large bunch, which I found soft and very
silky..
As she had long promised to bring us a child, one evening I asked if
she could do so then. Lillie answered, “I will try.” She closed the
curtains, remained inside fora while, and returning, said that the
medium was not quite well, and already too tired, therefore we were
to wait till the next seance. This was held on Tuesday, the 30th
November.
As soon as the stance began, Lillie requested me to go inside the
cabinet, and to hold the medium’s hands. I did so. They were as
cold as ice, but her face was burning hot. Lillie spoke at intervals
from behind the medium’s head. I remained a quarter of an hour,
and then was told I could leave. We had a pretty good light in both
rooms, so that Miss Cook was visible to me. I rose and looked round
the room, but could see nothing but the medium in a trance ; she was
resting on the chair. I turned towards the door to leave the room, but
as soon as I moved I felt two powerful hands over my shoulders push¬
ing me out. It was Lillie herself, fully materialised. Where she came
from I cannot tell. I again sat near the door conversing with her, till
I she told me to call the medium out. I did so. Miss Cook woke up
| and came out, resting’herself against the door. Lillie returned at once,
and remained conversing with usv .1 saw her going near' the window
at the back of the room, and opened the blind a little ..more, I then
asked if she could show us the’promised child. Lillie ordered the
medium to sit again. The -curtain ‘remained^partially open. A few
minutes afterwards Miss Cook screamed out that something was pull¬
ing her dress. I looked inside, and. saw Lillie standing near the feet of
| Miss Cook. 1 told her to be quiet, as dhe might spoil the expected
| new manifestation. / .*' \ *
A few minutes elapsed, when Miss'Cook again called my attention
to something moving near her. I- asked what if was she replied that
she thought it was a child. I sat down on the floor, and called the
dear one to come near to me and show herself ; she did so several
times; but with the face covered. I asked her to touch my hand,
| which she did. The little fingers were well formed,, pretty warm, and
| rather fleshy. I then asked her to put her hand flat over my right
| hand, but it seemed that she did not like to do so. I told Lillie that
I wanted this experiment for the purpose of seeing the length of her
i hand. Lillie spoke to her, and she at once complied with my request.
II From the length of the hand, as well as from the stature of the child,
| I should say she was about three years of age. I then begged Lillie to
show herself, the medium, and the new dear one. Miss Cook got up
and opened the curtains a little more, so that we could see her and
Lillie. A few minutes afterwards Amy came in front, and Mrs. Cook,
Miss Edith Cook, and myself, again all touched and felt the little
hands, and saw the three figures together as plainly as possible. Miss
Cook being rather tired, Lillie told her to sit; she did so, but the
spirit remained speaking to me for a while, and then asked me to
follow her. I instantly got up and entered the room, but she had
vanished.
If these are tricks, will those who deny the phenomena explain the
way of doing them ? But I am not going to comment, but to narrate
facts. Miss Cook was sitting on the chair in a deep trance. I re¬
mained standing for a few minutes, then went all round the room,
and I looked underneath the table. I could see nothing alive in the
room but the medium. I left the room, but was not seated, ere the
spirit opened the curtains, asking me how did I like the last experi¬
ment. Lillie then retired, wishing us good night.
At the next seance I had again an opportunity of seeing the medium
standing by the folding doors whilst the spirit form was evolved behind
her. The form came twice, with the face partly uncovered, but as
white as marble. The spirit spoke to me, and ordered the medium to
sit down, but the curtains remained open. In a few minutes I saw
Lillie close to the medium’s feet, and the little Amy moving near the
medium. Miss Cook spoke to both spirits and to me at the same time.
Miss Cook then asked Lillie if she might see the face of Amy. “Yes,
you can.” Lillie herself pulled the white drapery away from the
child’s face, so that Miss Cook had the opportunity of seeing it, but only
for a moment, as it seems that the face was not yet able to bear light.
With Lillie’s permission, Miss Cook lifted up the child, and seated her¬
self on the chair. I then went close to the medium, and sat on the
floor. I saw Miss Cook examine the face, hands, and feet; the child
was perfectly formed but not heavy. After a while she slipped away as
quickly as possible and disappeared. Thus terminated this wonderful
seance.
At the next one the spirit could not entrance the medium. Lillie
asked me to go and hold both the medium’s hands. I did so; but Miss
Cook became very restless, and kept for a long time moving right and
left. I asked Lillie if the medium were unwell. “ No,” she replied,
“ she is quite well.” I told Lillie that I myself felt very tired, and that
I could not hold the medium’s hands much longer. “ Have patience,
Mr- Rondi; I am trying a new experiment; consequently, 1 want you
to soothe the medium,” said Lillie. A few minutes afterwards Miss
Cook became calm and tranquil, and went into a deep trance. Lillie,
from behind the medium’s head, thanked me very much, and said that I
could go, but must sit near the window of the front room. Miss E.
Cook and myself went close to the window. The room was well
lighted, by the blinds being partly opened. We remained thus
about ten minutes; then Miss Cook in front, with Lillie close
behind her, stepped forward in front of the curtain. I begged
them to go to the piano. Miss Cook put her right arm round Lillie’s
waist and walked to the middle of the room, and thus stood for a
while conversing with us. Lillie said, “ The power is failing; we
must retire.” I noticed that Lillie was three or four inches taller than
Miss Cook; but gradually and perceptibly she sank down to the height
of about twenty inches; then she drew up again, and both retired,
walking backwards into the cabinet, to remain there a few minutes and
then come out again in front of the curtains. Amy soon followed them,
and stood close to the medium’s left, with the head covered, but at
intervals with both hands she uncovered her face, which was of a
darkish colour. I asked Miss Cook to take the girl up in her arms;
she did so, and held her for a few moments. After that they all
three went inside. With the permission of Lillie I entered the
cabinet, and saw the child moving about, but Lillie was standing by
the side of Miss Cook. A good light was coming in from the window
behind; the curtains forming the cabinet were open; the blinds of the
front window, as I said before, were also open, and the gas-flame
from the street lamp cast a good light into the room. In a window
of an opposite house they now and then lit the gas, and the light
became rather powerful in our room, so much so, that sometimes it was
unbearable by the medium when standing against the folding doors and
facing the window. However, that evening I was, I must
confess, favoured with all I could desire. Miss Cook took little
Amy on her lap. Lillie, fully materialised, was standing close
by with a “spread’’ of white drapery on the floor; she looked as
grand as a Greek statue, watching over both medium and child, moving
Dec. 28, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
311
right and left, and freely conversing with us all. I was sitting on the
floor close to the medium, contemplating this new* and beautiful group
of two dear angels from the spirit,land, and one from this earth.
Beams of light from the lamp outside came through the front window,
and shone over this new and unexpected artistic composition; at the
moment the scene reminded me of the beautiful pictures of the cele¬
brated Florentine painter Gherardo dalle Notti, whose skill in painting
groups illuminated by candle-lighj; has never yet been excelled. “Can
this be a dream ? Am I constantly deceived ? ” were the questions I
put to myself at the-moment I was looking at the amazing scene. I
then wished that not a'few, but all those whose duty it is to seek after
truth, had been present'to witness what God presents to every one who
desires, without sneering, to read in the grand and infinite Book of
Nature. The little dear angel after awhile slipped from the lap of
Miss Cook and melted away; afterwards Lillie gradually sank before
us, and thus ended this grand and imposing seance.
I have one more seance to record before concluding, and which I wit¬
nessed last Friday. At the previous seance I had asked Lillie if she
could show us a man.. “ Why do you want a man ?” said she. “Because
amongst Spiritualists there are differences of opinion; some think that
the spirit form is the medium ; others maintain that it is the medium’s
double ; consequently, if I could see the form of a man in the same way
that I have seen you evolving yourself many times while I was holding
the medium’s hands, it will be clear demonstration that the man’s form
cannot possibly be the medium or her double.’’ Lillie went inside the
cabinet, and in a few minutes she returned to the curtains, asking me
to take the medium out, and to hold both her hands. While the medium
was resting thus against the folding doors I saw the form materialise
and disappear before me several times. After standing thus an hour I
felt myself much exhausted, and begged Lillie to end the seance. “ I
am trying a new experiment for next Friday, and will show you, if pos¬
sible, what you asked for.” I said that I had an engagement for that
evening. Lillie replied, “You must come; I expect you.” Accord¬
ingly I went. To describe the whole seance would take too much space,
and I fear I have already exceeded what is usually allowed; therefore,
I restrain myself to simply saying that I saw on the evening in question
Miss Cook, perfectly conscious, sitting on the chair, and a new form
emanating in front of her, growing up to the height of a well-formed
man, facing the medium, and trying to put his hands upon her. Miss Cook
grew very much alarmed. I did my best to soothe her, and said that
the spirit could not but be a new friend. As I was standing with my
head inside the curtains, thus facing Miss Cook, I could only see the
back of the form, so I asked him to turn his head; he did so twice, but
I could only see his profile. As anxious as any other investigator could
he I begged Lillie’s permission to allow me to go and sit near the
medium, so as to have the newcomer in front of me. Lillie consented, and
I took my place close by her. Miss Cook asked me to feel her hands,
which were as cold as ice. So placed, I saw the new form rising from
the floor, and sinking again before me several times, though not very
clearly. Nevertheless, I could perceive the dark face of a man with a
long beard ; the back of the head was covered with a white robe. I now
conclude by saying that the new spirit could not be the medium, nor the
medium’s double. My sixteen years investigation of physical pheno¬
mena have convinced me that there are not two mediums equal to the
production of them, and that all the phenomena are evolved in various
and different ways from the medium’s body.
* 22, Montagu-place, Russell-square, London, Dec. 18th, 1877.
(Eomsponuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents^ who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.1
WHAT IS THE INTELLIGENCE?
Sir,—I have for some time past been reading your paper with great
attention and interest, feeling that the subject with which it is mainly
concerned is worthy of the deepest and most unprejudiced investigation.
I have as yet formed no certain opinion even as to the reality of the
phenomena described so frequently in your pages. Bona Jides, oppor¬
tunity, and sound judgment are all so essential to the reliability of
evidence, that I trust I shall be pardoned for reserving my verdict until
I shall personally have had opportunities of witnessing and testing
mediumistic phenomena.
Nevertheless, I candidly admit that I see neither tld priori” nor
religious difficulties in accepting this reality, and that I fully expect to
find it proved, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that the phenomena
have their source in other than merely human or physical agencies.
My object in writing to you is to express an opinion which, previously
in course of formation, has been thrown into definite shape by Colonel
Olcott’s able paper in your issue of December 7th.
This is that, assuming the agency to be other than physical, it may
nevertheless belong to either of at least three classes, viz. :—
1. The “mesmeric” emanations or forces of the medium, have been
brought into contact with the consciousness of the members of the
“ circle.”
2. Inferior (and therefore, presumably, ignorant or malicious) spirits,
whether of the departed or otherwise.
3. Spirits of the departed who have entered a higher sphere of
being.
As the only hypothesis upon which we can attach any real value to
“ manifestations ” either as evidence of the immortality of the soul or as
sources of important knowledge, is that of the agencies in question
belonging to the third of these classes. I venture to express a hope
that those of my brother inquirers who enjoy opportunities of seeing
and investigating such “manifestations ” will devote themselves to the
all important question of the source of the facts they witness.
t’or instance : I presume the gentleman who favours us with accounts
of the sayings and doings, of “Joey” and “Abdullah,” must by this
time be absolutely convinced of the reality of the phenomena. "Will hfe
pardon my suggesting that he should now give himself up wholly to
inquiries as to u\.q personality and character oi his spirit friends.
^S>6Q\biTQev irarl.
U THE CASE OSP DISTRESS.
| Sir,—Will you please publish the names of donors, and the amounts
)! I received, for the family on behalf of which I appealed, in your paper :
A Friend, A., ^5; Mr. . Alex. Tod, 10s.; Dr. Wyld, 5s.;, Mr.
(j Charles Lowe, 5s.; Mr. Frank Dietz, 2s. 6d.; Mr. Arthur Maltby, 2s.;
)| Mr. Cowper, Is.; Miss Dickson, Is.; total, £6 6s. 6d. I have , carried
| out the wishes of our friends in paying their debts and seeing they had
| necessary clothing, and I left them very thankful for the kind assistance
) they had received. I have a little money left, and with the permission
( of the donors, I will buy a few necessary things for -a clairvoyant
medium I know, who is in need of them. Agnes Maltby.
i| 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, London.
| WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY?
) [To the Editor of “The Banner of Light” Boston, Mass.,
Dec. 8th, 1877.)
/ Sir,—The winter commences December 21st, 1877, 11.42 a.m., and
|| ends March 20 th, 1878.
| i The ruler of the figure is Jupiter, and we find him in the eleventh
(| house of the figure in opposition of the moon; Saturn on the
I] ascendant, and Mars in evil aspect of four planets. There will be
discord in places of amusement; many people will be afflicted, and
many griefs and pains of a serious nature will be experienced; Uranus
I in the sixth will cause lameness of the knees, and heart disease will be
j prevalent; also the death of many cattle will take place. The moon in
f | the fifth in time of Saturn : commerce will prosper, the iron trade will
\ | have quite a brisk start, but there will be dreadful fires attended by
j | loss of life, shipwrecks, and many railway accidents. Uranus, being
\ ] retrograde, will cause epidemic disease in Philadelphia, Home, France,
(I Italy, and the north-western part of America. The position of moon
) ] and Mercury denotes notable cases of forgery, and many youthful
/{ graduates of crime. Those interested in banks will do well to be
| (j careful of fraud and counterfeits.
|) ] This will be a cold dreary winter, and now, indeed, shall we feel the
| (| effects of the unpropitious aspects in operation; in January the greatest
] y depression in trade is felt; a lack of employment for our manufacturers,
| > and a very untoward state of things exist; serious cases of starvation
i ( will occur; theft and crime will be alarmingly prevalent; the papers
j ( will teem with bankrupts ; the government will be in bad repute ; the
| / people will show marked disapprobation at its proceedings ; theatres
| ( will flourish for a short time, but with a lull in March again. I fear
; ( ere this we shall have serious news from Rome. This will be a trying
j i month, as the weather will be severe.
I y| February. Jupiter now meets the sextile of Saturn with reception ;
| j | this will cause a more contented feeling with the people and the Go-
|) I vernment; there is still danger of accidents to mines and slides of land,
j j ] Mars will cause distempers in the head and throat, hot and dry diseases,
| ) rheum in the eyes. The opposition of the sun and Uranus denotes
]) j many imprisonments for forgery, &c. ; accidents in places of amuse-
i (i ment, also much trouble to the fair sex. A notable railway accident
)1 about the end of the month. Those born the 16th or 17th of this
j/j month will have many trials; there will be many cases of fever this
j \ I month, and much damage by hurricanes.
11 j March. We may look for many strange events this month in
11! Europe and America. Many deaths among the theatrical profession ;
j children will be afflicted. Jupiter has now entered the sign Aquarius
i )| with Yenus : this will begin to make things look better for the poor ;
! (j a decrease of crime will set in ; it will also bring success to Russia. I
y look for a great battle about the 21st, and Russia will be victorious,
j/j The Sultan of Turkey has very evil directions in operation now, and
; \ j will have for some months ; it foreshadows evil to the Ottoman Empire.
;( Let the Sultan beware of the assassin.
! )j President Hayes is not going to be re-elected, and the first year of
I (j his rule the country will be in a bad state, but after that things will
j gradually mend, but he must be careful of his health ; he will suffer
j ) from his throat, and lameness in his limbs. C. D. Jenkins.
“ I hold it to he a fact,” says Pascal, “ that if all persons knew what
they said of each other, there would not be any friends in the world.”
Mr. J. M. Peebles will probably arrive in London in a few days’
time from the Cape of Good Hope.
Mr. Epes Sargent contemplates bringing out another book this
winter in connection with Spiritualism.
Lifts in the Veil will be published, in the course of next week. We
expect it to be one of the most popular books ever issued in connection
with Spiritualism, and to be one calculated to remove much prejudice
among disbelieving readers.
The ordinary course of six popular experimental lectures at the
Royal Institution began yesterday, when Professor Tyndall began the
series. The subject this year is “Heat (Visible and Invisible).”
Professor Huxley will deliver the first of the evening lectures; subject,
“John Harvey.”
312
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Deo. 28, 1877.
MR. CROOKES ON DR. CARPENTER’S ATTACKS.
In the course of the controversy on Spiritualism and on the radiometer, |
in the pages of Nature, the following letter from Mr. Crookes was j
published:—
Sir,—Until I read Dr. Carpenter’s letter in your issue of the 8th inst.,
it had never occurred to me that his “special purpose” was to bring
out strongly my “thoroughly scientific and philosophical method!” j
This is an act of disinterested kindness which recalls to me the exquisite
truth of Dean Swift’s remark, i No enemy can match a friend.”
Dr. Carpenter’s only reply to my letter, which appeared in your issue [
of the 1st inst., is contained in the following passage : “ If I had not j
found,” he says, “ after the publication of my lectures, that he had
himself been 1 digging up the hatchet,’ which I was quite disposed to keep
buried, by giving his public attestation to the I spiritualistic ’ genuineness |
of what had been proved to be a most barefaced imposture, I should
not have again brought his name into the controversy.”
Further on Dr. Carpenter paraphrases passages from his article in j
Fraser's Magazine for this month, in which he goes more into detail
touching this “ public attestation,” of which in his eyes I stand accused.
“ Eva Fay,” he says, returned to the United States,” carrying with j
her a letter from Mr. Crookes, which set forth that, since doubts had i
been thrown on the spiritualistic nature of her ‘manifestations,” and
since he, in common with other fellows of the Royal Society, had
satisfied himself of their genuineness by i scientific tests,’ he willingly j
gave her the benefit of his attestation. This letter was published in
fac-simile in American newspapers.”
My answer to this calumny shall be brief.
- It is untrue that I dug up the hatchet—Dr. Carpenter’s expression— j
in the interval between November 30th, 1875, when he proposed it j
should be buried, and the time of his first subsequent attack upon me.
It is untrue that, during this interval, or at any other time, I gave my
“public attestation to the spiritualistic genuineness of what had been
proved to be a most barefaced imposture.”
It is untrue that I gave Eva Fay a letter, speaking of the “ Spirit¬
ualistic nature of her manifestations,” and referring to “ Fellows of the
Royal Society.”
It is untrue that Eva Fay “returned to the United States carrying 11
with her ” such a letter.
It is untrue that “ this letter was published in facsimile in American j'
newspapers.” j
When Dr. Carpenter limits himself to definite statements, my task is j
not difficult. It is, however, less easy to answer a rumour of something . i J
which somebody told Dr. Carpenter 1. privately admitted. | (
“ It has been rumoured,” says Dr. Carpenter, in Fraser's Magazine, j <
“ that Mr. Crookes has privately admitted that some of his ‘mediums,’ ! j
when they could not evoke the ‘ manifestations ’ by fair means, have i <
done so by/cm/.” . ; i <
I admit that such a rumour respecting Eva Fay was circulated in | j
the United States, and a Boston gentleman wrote and asked me if there ! j
was any truth in this statement. I replied as follows, under date | (
Nov. 8th, 1875 :— i
“ In reply to your favour of Oct. 25th,'which I have received this ; j
morning, I beg to state that no one has any authority from me to state |
that I have any doubts of Mrs. Fay’s mediumship. The published . j J
accounts of the test seances which took place at my house are the best ])
evidence which I can give of my belief in Mrs. Fay’s powers. I should j
be sorry to find that any such rumours as you mention should injure |
Mrs. Fay, whom I always found most ready to submit to any conditions I)
I thought fit to propose.” | j
Considering that this was a private letter from one gentleman to i j
another, written, currents calamo, without any thought of subsequent , j)
publication, few of your readers, I believe, will see much harm in it. ] (
Not being aware that a private communication is less sacred in America j j
than in England, I was certainly surprised one morning to receive a i)
copy of an American newspaper containing a facsimile of this private i
letter. j
It will be observed that this letter is dated Nov. 8th, 1875, whereas 11
the “ bury-the-hatchet ” episode took place on November 30th, 1875; i
this, therefore, cannot be the letter which convicts me of attesting to a H
“ barefaced imposture” subsequent to November 30th. i
Moreover, this letter does not contain the words “spiritualistic i
nature of her manifestations.” Neither does it allude to “ Fellows of i j
the Royal Society.” Nor did Eva Fay return to “the United States, j ?
carrying with her this letter.” Nor was it even addressed to Eva Fay. j (
It is, then, impossible that this can be the letter to which Dr. Car- i)
penter refers, and I demand that he prove the truth of this allegation j)
by producing a copy of the “ American newspapers ” containing a/ac- j j
simile of a letter written by me answering his description, containing j i
the words which he professes to quote from it, and justifying his j)
defamatory remarks. . ! <
In your issue of last week (p. 26) Dr. Carpenter says nothing about jl
this facsimile letter, but lays stress on an article written by me ten i j)
months previously. Does he seriously mean that the publication in j (
March', 1875, of an account of some test experiments is a breach, on my j j
part, of his “ bury-the hatchet” offer made the following November? 4 ‘ 15
I have evidently been labouring under a misapprehension as to what j (
Dr. Carpenter meant when he proposed to “ bury the hatchet.” I sup- j}
pose he intended to cease misrepresenting my views and falsifying my i)
experiments at his public lectures, and never afterwards to repeat such j (
calumnies on my scientific position as he had anonymously contributed |)
to the Quarterly Review fox October, 1871. It seems, however, that Dr. i;
Carpenter really meant that I was no longer to go poaching on his own | (
special preserve, and was to abstain for the-rest o'fi? my life from writing j)
even a private letter on a subject, he has investigated for more j)
than, thirty.years, and about whiclnheis now vvritim? and lecturing with j (
redoubled vigour. i)
Dr. Carpenter refers in by Eva Fay’s !)
manager, that for an adequate sum of money the ‘ medium ’ should
expose the whole affair,” and he vouches for its truth by saying he has
seen “copies of the letters.” I can supply, not copies, but original
letters. I have before me letters from Eva Fay, dated Birmingham,
May, 1875, speaking bitterly of the temptations and persecutions to
which she was being subjected to induce her to join in the scheme, to
which she was no party.
But how, may I ask, does an abortive conspiracy to complicate “ six
big guns'' prove that my “scientific tests”—which with all deference
to Dr. Carpenter’s “ good authority” canwo/ be evaded by a “ dodge”—
were useless, and that in spite of them Eva Fay cheated me ?
I am weary of protesting against the imputation which Dr. Carpenter
conveys in the words “ scientific advocates of the system.” I emphatically
deny that I have ever advocated any “ system” in connection with the
phenomena ascribed to Spiritualism. I have never for one moment
doubted that this name has covered an enormous mass of fraud and
trickery ; but being convinced that amidst all this falsehood—which it
is Dr. Carpenter’s mission to denounce in the most fervid eloquence at
command—there was a solid nucleus of fact, and believing that every
unrecognised fact is a reproach to science, and every uninvestigated
phenomenon is a probable mine of discovery, I considered myself not
merely entitled, but almost bound in scientific honour to attempt the
solution of the question. My attempt to bring the so-called super¬
natural within the realm of fact, to turn the light of science on a
problem that required investigation, has exposed me to many misrepre¬
sentations, but especially to the ire of Dr. Carpenter, who never tires of
repeating every idle tale from hearsay evidence. I look back to the days
of the alchemists, and find the very same kind of fraud, mysticism and
trickery, differing but little from the impostures of the present day. But
then, as now, there were a few earnest students who detected the germs
of truth amidst the ravings and juggleries of the gold-makers; they
cherished these germs, and although the Dr. Carpenter of that period
would doubtless have denounced those students as “scientific advocates
of the system” of alchemy, and felt it his duty to “ undermine ” their
reputations, they persevered through calumny and ridicule, and thereby
laid the foundations of our modern science of chemistry.
The readers of Nature have now before them ample illustration of
the falsity of the accusations with which I have been persecuted for so
many years. A calumny once born, said the Great Napolean, can never
be killed. I have, however, done my utmost to prove the groundless¬
ness of the very serious charges Dr. Carpenter has brought against me,
down to the grave indictments in your issue of last week (p. 26).
There is not a single charge which Dr. Carpenter has ever brought
against me that I am unable to answer with like completeness; and,
judging from long experience, I venture to say that any future charges
he may bring will be equally unfounded. But I cannot, out of regard
for your readers, to say nothing of the sacrifice of time, continue to
defend myself from every petty accusation ; and unless really forced by
some imputation too serious to pass over, this must be my last letter on
a subject which to me involves painfully too much self-reference. I have
been constrained, in self-defence, to speak in somewhat downright
fashion, but Dr. Carpenter’s industrious misconstruction has drawn this
protest from me; Misstatements expressed in a few lines may require
pages to refute them. A calumny which takes a minute to write may
demand days to answer. Memories of half-forgotten occurrences have
to be revived, conversations recalled, old letters hunted out, journals
exhumed, and, in fact, as much time and trouble expended as if getting
up evidence for an important legal trial. So great a tax for so trivial a
purpose is monstrous in its disproportion, and I can waste on this
fruitless discussion no more precious time—time stolen from my
physical work in the laboratory, already too much curtailed by the
pressure of outward business. William Crookes.
November 10th.   
THE AUSTRALIAN EDITOR ON TOMBSTONE LITERATURE.
The following paragraph about the tombstone of the late William
Davenport, contains a few details in addition to those already published
in these pages :—
“ Yery intolerant people are usually very stupid people, and Mr.
S. H. Pearce, manager of the Church of England portion of the Necro¬
polis, is no exception to the general rule. In what he conceived to be
the fulfilment of his duty, he refused permission to Mrs. Davenport,
widow of the deceased Davenport Brother, to place an inscription and .
carving ou her husband’s grave, on the ground that they were not in .
accordance with the doctrines of the Church of England. From a letter
addressed to our contemporary, it appears that the carving was the
most objectionable part. It was a “ sketch or plan of something resem¬
bling a box or cabinet or what is generally used by persons of the
late Mr. Davenport’s profession.” This intelligent gentleman is evi¬
dently in total ignorance what it really was, but admits it may be a
plan of a box. What rubric of the Church has condemned that most
harmless of human constructions—a box 1 The following verse, com¬
posed by Mr. Davenport’s brother, was to be inscribed on the monu-
ment:—
f.‘ Dear brother, I would, learn from thee,
And hasten to partake thy bliss J
To thy world oh welcome me,
As first I welcomed thee to this.”
The tombstone censor thinks this quatrain refers to the box, and ■
that both verses and the box belong to Spiritualism. “ May he rest in
peace,” also was condemned, though it is not clear on what grounds ;
but box, verse and wish, says be, are contraiy to the doctrines of the
Church. Surely no person who believes in a life hereafter could
object to these simple verses, but Mr. Pearce is so frightened of Spiri¬
tualism, and so ignorant of the meaning of words, that nothing but
materialism could satisfy him.”—The Evening News, Sidney, N.S.W. ■
Dec. 28, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
'aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn tfrom
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Sd.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
. scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
BLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. §s.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam.' 6s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work, I2s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiraut n-
ally through the mediumshinof Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. 0. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL-
. ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. .CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. 0. Barrett.
7s. 6d. -—i
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bueknill and
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton- 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s. .
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taL. a by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and (Science: the Spirit! and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and tho Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens ■ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants'who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by-means of clair-„
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vaia,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. . •
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
. Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid. •
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations .* , .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . .
The Seer. „ III. „ . , .
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . . .
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . .
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . .* . .
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People .
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life .....
History and Philosophy of Evil ....
Harbinger of Health , . .
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . .
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .. . . .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . .
'Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . ,
Morning Lectures ?. ' ' . .
*, d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
.76
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
.36
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7' 6
. 2 6,
. 3 6,/
I 7 fi.)
. 6 f
. 7 I
• r '
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . 24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . . fi
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing- in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-I-Iian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . .0
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter '
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind'; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . '. . ■ . 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Othee
Obsebvebs in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to he
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he ho -
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales liaily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.Q.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
, HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
j With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
j obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 foi' Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6c?., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINOS,
Amd. in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
(mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
! clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi-
’ plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families.. A pro-
i. portion of those who receive the information will try experi-
i ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
k homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis-
I,reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
| who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
, Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
, distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
[ how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
/I deluged with useful information, and such a number at
I mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in-
* crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
I highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.1’
r-vau. 'MAGiC STAFF, by A. J. Davis^
^he early life of the author, and his experiences
^^ensitive and fully developed seer. An
record differing in kind from all
■ ap^or; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
n
iv„
*!r a# u al i st.
IS3
m
NEW* ERA. .
DW'.TO^ PREYENT DISEASE .AND' EREv
MATURE liEA'iTi ,EV NATURAE MEANS.
T ORD BEAG^^MEDD justly .^Med tlw..o.tl.er
: (lii^tUat ‘‘ i.KMiplc isj;cally tlm fouiulatior'-
'jpou,^iiich:all iKcir.’Jiapjjiiie'ss and power •ns a State ocygfl&Vix
Eos'itliKmo.st' prac^iiitsjnode dfprerenttag.desease ami preajaturenlf
aAMtiawSti't' Sixpeaoer;.Cro^'n Stu.-ficKt-js.gilfcfr
' * **:"'*■ ^Jir ^ IljllAJP^r^HAV RftoNi •:• • •'> •' -
Ad' Etegant alMwdMsmd:'tiTOTOffk' of Poetical ancl Prose
^^^^'Jfl'fm^f'QTOyeiwid-G'ay.' ' '
^1't'aoicg^lsieSlitied py Florence OtAton and the
BBib f* ^r^AuffiorA- WsSmMmmlmP-'t;
'.From The. Bristpfjfotttiy-Postl.
——WW—U?ei—MP————
awinus-^inAst^indigestldB7i^yEtfO’g,-FRUITdSAB%gprcpared;
tfrpTirKJuiid ripe truit). It is the best preventKteSSgc'tra^Bfe
• BUtoasnessr Sick Hcadacin-',' Skin • Ern’ptioiis,' AijiinVi.:^ '!U<vjU,
JUNO’S
 |FRU-LT- - S ALT
and vaided rr.VV.- t.iaitlisy'ovel^lt^^lrSEfiSKasrdii^eiftul'v. ■
none. nerhaRs^liaSMvlS^^s^xapidly'iiifaliabUo hoMcev
as EfrO'S
i some yearH
from ripe fl
of the glObbPB
that.it..keeps*tlm*MgM'pi^KShdpttie'''^y|tem 'perfectIyi
clesvr, and thids tSitirairawHlgBWnnatydrk oF mala-•
rious diaoaa^tS&wftjfitftBWMMo * toMts?and MtsfrtcfS' which
are lU-drainedyJgTlj^^iiJjJtlfi,doubt but that die time
will everttuaiBj,^gp''PpBn3r«®g%and (u«eas?s’'/esulting•)
from nolftoRedMBIodyittnll'wp& TConskiered
against! theSeli-hemiSisriComtBiuiRieSi^at I.yyay Bimwe.
will; •iteSiWM^biSia^y'Eecscraie wTinejS’et .beforeItjt;,
sliall’- a' pitch, of’sdijifary .peiTe'ctioiT^t
MeaivwHig.^wi^lEatinoF^witnhold ‘ a^.tveJ.comet.Ja any
spe.c^fKliicK.raaj:. proy.e a nie^its. of*preserviag or iestor-'
iM.haMtli^Tfie simplet. thaj.Deuer, so;lpBg pnlypas it is 1
9';S?i:EirtlJL!i' :iSALT' lias been. found an -,
..eisftglltjijfeiiofrectfyo’ to'tfROjJdigestive organs, and in the
ciiioni^sm?!l'rfd{a;jan'd'.;in S'oUth'America, has a largely /
-ipfcraipsingi'salet? It,ishetter by fan than .‘‘nips,” aiid.'
j’imioiigSt'thrj GoodTemptars—a numerous*co!fHnunity all,-'
•*■ .sJafrewift-WOrtfli^dt is recognised'not only as a refreshing-:
^’.mmjctfaSo as a stimulating drink*!’—European Mai/,'-Nov. Tw
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
^ -KNOW. ■
WOiTgr FTilflT-S ALT,—A ^Gentleman 'writes :—
Since,I .have used 'ENO’S FRUIT SALT.hieht and
ihoi'iilngjfihy'dieadaclfes; &c.,.havc left niCj and'llils alter,
suffering for.'abbve'tweiUy'yeaVsl ' You'shonld make this
^ - if -- ■<
NO^a rREiT* *?SADT^-^;''<At-j>l3ady'.favri$esA •—^
I i‘.‘Etfeby thifit^mSaKfirtTS'pf’fbbd/ ceaseff trrnctpi'i^peWy.J’lor??
r 'afMeast .th'ree- niOntlishe'fOre'Icri.-nruciice.d
I^KSgf .-little.foodJ could take genevally.piihislied'nicfp.u.rfc(6iiniP(!:.>
Mj hie was one of great suffering, so'.'flia't T' iaus'f'haVe
■ ' before long.’.’ .. „• - .- -i-- vn >■->,
IN Tgyl^a^rjDA3UGIIT TO .GONTATN—A IJOljrEE^'OE.'.'
f J^'t^l^lUIE^SALT, '
'^KJBRAIi IiAXAtlVB Ahd TGitrc
• >4'IS*«OH“'VAKW.l!S; I'OKM.SrC>P ISliKltSTIOX.
GIIiAB'ijjifEED TO BK FUEFARED -FROM SOUND RIPE7:’
. FRUIT..! . -..- 1 .
?ihpF«»it Splt is one of Nature's own products; It contains all
the' valuabie s^lhip constituents of Ripe Eruft in 'a portable,.
agrsaMlevahd. ^hhPleffprm.- Bn'd is In every'respect as harmless
•‘as■tli'e'juiees'-of fruits from-which if is obtained.
: In Pimples andTllbtdhes on the. Fape, SaHowness of the. Skin,
‘ anif D'epreSsidrfi'O'f Spirifsr it is most useful; for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to .fruit in the natural way.,
in which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,.
which, if retaiaed, poisons the blood; and its advantages pvpr
fruit is that .it can be always at hand -when required. Its ]
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot.or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond ]
praise.
• ' ;;V v-;' fENO’S ■ • BAET” 7^
Is particulariv valuable. : No traveller shduid'leave iidthb'without '
a supply, for by its use the most'dangerous forms bf Fevers, ,
^ tBioott Poisons,- &c., are Prevented 'amaGurqd. It As, 4n truth^a J
' "Eamily- iledicine Chest in the, simplest j-ct .most potent'Jonn. J
- Instead of beihg-lowering tp the .'systemy-this preparation is, in ]
the highest degree, invigofatink. Its'effect in .relieving thirst, J
giving.tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most strlkihg.
E' n6’S' FRUIT.. SALT :‘(pue':. of;''.-Ntvbiii=e:-a ..own ]
products) keeps the blood ptiru;' and is. thus of .itself one .of;'1
ttie most valuable means of keeping the blood free from -,
fevers, and blood poisons, liver coinpiaU}t!i,r&c.,*ev.cr
discovered. As a means of preserving"aVul--restoring
,. .-. Vheidtli, ft'is unequalled ; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating.beverage. After a patient
V and’veatreful observation of its-effects wlien used, I have;
■'a#’;- .no hesitation in stating that if its greqt value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, ifot A hdusfe-
/ - hold in the land would, be without'’it';;)ior ,a 'single'
travelling trunk' or poftmanteauEut''ivdulcr cohtaiii ’ if.—
, — J. c, Eso." ^ 1 . -■ y-y'.Jrf*
TT NO’S' FRUIT SALT.—.“-I am ve^miicB^pieaeod^
A-i with youfeFRUIT SALT. I haveAuliyaproved its great ]
efficacy by its having entirely cured me or indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury. ;; . .
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PiALPITATION OF j
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangepient apd. Ipdiges -
tlon, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of vour FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the tiirfe,- and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when-I bought it. . I,had suffered more
r-or less, since the year 1841, from palpitatiompf the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. -.The least thing ,
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first'
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous,' annoying, and
’ truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. . Outof gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yai'mouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use.you please —I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, ‘‘W. B.'Beckett ”
Aug. 30,1877—10, York-sqhare, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
: Capsule is marked “ UNO’S FRUIT SALT.'” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthjesdimitatloh/ TRADE
MARiy-^ENOts ^FeuiT;SklA; Fruit SauSE, Oft Frikt I’ov   
:S<dd bx.^R Chemists.! Efice 2s,M^jind
SotiAgtfrffQ^gar^l'RAUfcAQi
T. - (S . COSTEKTS.'m -
,i. —MisceilantSvs Po&hs And Prose • Writings. ;
| Jaffna Lriwbf' the LazyAuthbr.—2. The Song of the NewspapeF1
!; lylit^ky..". The'.Song of the' Pawnbroker.--!. The Castle.—5. The
; Lay-of -the ’Fat Mhn.—’G. The Poetry of Science.-A7. How Kadji-
:AliSli.bac-was Fhotogi aphed. (A letter .from SUadji At .Slmcabac.
I A gentleman who visited London on. iliisiness connected With a
^TiMdshstLpahji'tp AH'SVlustspha'Ben Buckram, dhi^oof .fhe'QoK
!p';lege''bf:H;;.wling Di’rVishcs..at Constantinople'.)—Sf 'The Lay of the
Bfoad-Bi inmic-'i'-illat.—!).r St;' -Bride's-Bay.—10! The- Lay " of- the
‘ Market' Gartlynev.—11. Fast- Falls the Evonritlo:’-’—12.' Our Raven.-*
f'S3-lilaterCiliistic Religion. —13.’-,The' Lay' oLthe’ Photographer.—'*
.;• l-i.-'IIow to Don tile-' thc.’-U t il i ty ot' the Prfntmg Press.—in. The
i Song of tWW other iii-Eawl—10. Wird.efcbet<>^7*>/^.—173‘l Poof QldJ
. Joe!'.—is. The Human Hive.—10.. TheLay of the Mace-Bearers.—
Song.'^-21. A Yisiori;^^. ^tUiidef the ‘Linie£,”^23,‘ The.
Angel of Silence.
) Btiiludi, 'bv Anthony 'yVoUblejaws.
-24. T}ie Public Analyst —'Ja. i General'Gram's/Reception nt Follfe-'.
stohc.^:'0. Vflic- Rifle Corps.~‘j7. Tony.ls UahK-ut,—2S. .The July
Vii.fg.-20. The Con vcrt,ed(Caunan ' _ - ,'c,w' ‘
ifcSSSStfw*"' OPfiri^s ofthb
w'>y-Fronii^iAe*M&rn?ng Ppst.- \ ; . :
. ®ie;A&,ratn^, iiqs/.ovhiclf strongly recommends the book in a
fetueyv-aleaidy a cbhfni'hjohg,' says f-^*' Comic literature which
lionestl3'''.de'sev.vos;thL:'.epiilie‘t.i'seSms7,'to be rapidly becoming a
! thing ortho past; ‘c'onseqiieatly.auy writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits agefihine5veji)o.ofJiRm_qur/aekefves.the praise of all who
! are not too stupid-to. c:hj by an''ihucicent laugh.. Not that his muse
' .restricts herself only to sueff lighter utterances; on the. contrary,
]■ soxhd of his poems touch'-: ontlie-neepoSt aiidfmifSf sacred feelings
qfiour commpn humanity..: -. The unfortunate. Hadji's narrative
p.ofhis Adventures amongst the'magicianS'!bf“ Wiilt^cliapelis quite
f one of the funniest things that has-been published''foiV years.
The hook contains quite enough to ensure it< a welcome from
which its tasteful. appearance will not'detract.” ‘ TUe'.lI/orn/ng .
■ Post says of The Wobblejau Ballads-.—“ No;oftAcau help laughing
at them,” and it sayathat the rhymes are pitched !n “something*
like the same key’I as The 'JSon .Oaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers. “ with an appreciably successful result.” * -
From The Court Journal. -
“AH are. of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that-the author possesses the pure poetic
'gKR’!' J - * ' *. ■- . - -■ -
A--xtii-‘‘ir^-PPx^-The graphic.-j,* ?
:'can-bpp.rt.-oiafe.gentfnr-,unforced humour.should
S^SSSih/d-'ro^SSsiPWU&uljKis Prpse tmacnhings. ' Written,
rwmtSRl.p'ubwmbd^afiatrt'vieWcdpy-WilliamH. Harrison (38, Great*
rRussell-street); Both tli'c verses and the short essays are really
funny and in ‘some' of the latter there is .'uvein ofvgtnial‘Satire-
wliieli adds piquam-v to the fin.'.. The Lay ofthejsiewspdnepjiditor
s is,capital, if-iyathAteg&yaiftMfeaSO X^h^gMM^m.Maeebeb'ees S
bu rone -of the most lanfnarasDUsIsghe Tumi’S 'atj'.qtfnt ofhb'Wlie'
; went to be phologl'aphod.'’ . . -V "'v' ’i-'"Svli.1
' '•' From P«b/ic tipifeton*. •
* '“ A volume of remarliabty. good verse,.. . Some of the,metrical
| legends remind-us of.tiie wild chants that.used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some toil or fifteen years ago. Mr.
| Harrison* however, knows where to planfhis fun,’ And an accu-
('rate scientiflc mind like Jiis can make jokes with success... . To
' all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
; gift-book, we toirimenu JIM Lazy Lays.”
. From 77ie Bookseller. ' .. .
“An odd but most'eriterfaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies! soitfe in 'verse and others in' prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful, pen. The vein.. of
: hiunqur which penheates them is genuine; rich, and original, and
! niJt at aU'ifl-nafiffed;”
I ** *'!, - . From' 2fqf««'A! 1 ’
“ Scientific men ghd matters are in one or two cases alluded tdH
.and the imprint bears that- the. work is published gaifiii 1§77
h (popular chronology) ;-a.m. 6877 (Torqueifmda) ; a nr. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’’ We'believe that our readers may derive a little
amusemeht from a perusal of the volume.”
NFrom T/ie British Journal of Photography.
1 “ The Lo-iy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
■ are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others Social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
: amusing reading for*an occasional spare half-hour.... They cbh-
rBeffi nothing unrefined or.in badjtaste.” ‘
From The Dublin University Magazine.
I “ How Hadji Al Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
p ia well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
* From The Photographic NetSs.
S “Mr-'W'. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
joomieCtion with photographic and other scientific literature, has
^considerable facility of versificatieu, and deals, in pleasant and
fiumofous jnqpd. with many scientific follies wliicn are better |
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman. -
r “In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
dhei'els h good deal Of broad humour andsatiric power, witu a due
lomidation of solid soose.”. ..- a--.
- ... y, From The Bradford, Daily.,Chroniele.
•‘4Good poetical'diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a mfist"welcome,book... ‘ How Hadji al Shacabac Was Fnolto*'
graphed,’jWilllbe sureito make every reader roar with laughter.-”-
'* ' WFrora The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
; “ With such a free and easy.author it is naturally to be.cxpcQtgd-'
that his subjects should bear Some.trac'e of this'' peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as freehand easy as himself,... The
poems are all characterised oy, smoothness and rhythmical swing.,
... The work is very elaborately-'bound in.cloth and gut.A'.*! At
gorgeous design upon the cover.... Iftour readers wish to -en- ■>
■courage laziness they Have a most deserving object in a very"
I’clever and veEsatile member of the order.”
• . * From TheLicerpool Daiiy Oourier.
j “ In hjs hand-some{y bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H.'Harrison,provides a gift-bools elegant in its appear-
jance audtfntertalnlng in its dontents... . The author' is Imbued
>■ wUh thetrue spirit of humoifr, and amuses all while offending
j none;”
Fjom The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
] “A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
3 well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
! editor of The- Spiritualist. H.. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, amTSome of The W.obblejaw Ballads
(would not have beep-unworthy of Barham himself, some ot the-
‘.shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment arid poetio feeling which will make -them accept¬
able to most readers.”
’ From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
'The-finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
otbgraphed.’ It is dri admirable addition to our not too ex->.l
r,ve.comic,literature. - The story is one of which extracts’’,
not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorbus..' .fn
?ho wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
’HI find iyhat they waul uiiThi !Mzy Lays.” * pVfii
' “ A curious collection of verses 'arid' prose ‘-ssavs of nheq'ua
'merit.’... The serious and sentimental vffS'ed belong -to the typo
or Ml'srHetaiahs’s 'or E. E. L.’s p'rodtictiohs)”' ^
. From The Kensington News.
' It js " after the manper of Barham, Hqod, Mark Twain, or any,
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generatiofi'as thealithors of the most se^pus works. ThtLays
are always .prighial, sometimes serious,'generally comic, but
ndver vulgar.” f
Prom The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of,.itself—original, and a cast ofits
author’s mind.iJ(t. is a work oligceat power and beauty; mil i
lively:,iiuajinings and, bold outspoken thoughts, abouiidiiig in,
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one-
that may be read many times over,'.. The get-up of the book is;
very handabme.'’ w - ^
'!.*>>.■. From The Ncl.bcsiyiii News,
-“-A- iiir.nbef- of- clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being :a series of papers eiitltlcd The.kYobblejaio Ballads, which1
appeared in the columns of Jhis-paper short time ago;
and ■ which created •' such' a -furore at the time.” | A’./l. ,l «•“
; irate member of the "'cir-n Council ofUriaHi/ called the attention of-
i iKe'Mdyol' ana (jofooratioh of FofieslSiie to the' burlesques m Hie.
r “sIVobblefaio Balluds;” buthhe-merribers assembled laughed at the '
j matter,.andproceeded to the. next business. - Thc-Muy-ir said that he
! did not fund them.'] . . . ‘.‘It'contains -some very choice poems-. -
.l arid prose essays, is hound in.cio’th rich]y.giit;.;’.nd lias an origtiiaF
j design’ Of rip ril'd inary' hi e’rft dri the cover.”''
: Obtainable, price "?.• cd,,.,.])ost free,■ uti-thc Pulilishing Office, of4
; W. II. HAi!ufsQN, 88f Gi;(jat RusselH4ti'eetf'Ebiidon, W.Cf A
; JiBSMERISM AND: ITS PBENOlIRNA,, .V
] v.ry OR.. .. . - ; '
' ANIMAL MAGNEl’T^jVi,
■ Sy the'late Wm. .Ghecorv, iliD.'. •F.U-.S.'^.'Professor of
Clmnisiry at EdinBiirgll -Xfiiiv'&rsiif,. ;
Dedicated by the Author .by Permission to His Grace
• the Da!£e of Argyll,
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
: Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
.post free for 21s. TCopies may Also be bad bound in half
| calf; with marbled 'gdgos, price 8s. 6d. per volome, post free.
f / CONTENTS.
[ j CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process'far Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occt^S^Spqntaneously In Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
: the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
i Pain, ' ; : eNM
! G HAFTER IIConorolfExert'ised by the Operator over the Sub
jert in VarlotfsWgys—S|WyiUo Expression of Feelings in the Look
arid Qestnre—Etfectof Mnaf^^rnshlulness of the Sleeper—Various
]Dfegrees.of Siisceplibiliti'^-SleepTCaused.by Silent Will; and at a
41'istancf—Attraction Towards the 0‘f|<|riitor—Effect >n the Waking
.State of Commands Given in the SleejT,v_^.-
fflfESIAPTEltAfl;:^.Sympat-lir — ConiriiariRy; of Sensations; of
' lim'otiou's Danger of.'ICi-h Atxpuvimeiits-^'Pubii'c: Kx'tiil.miims of
'•Iwnbtfnl Advantage — Syfiftlathy wiftf' the 'Bystanders —Thought-
•’ Reading—Sources of Error—Medicai IntuHlon—Syriipalhetie Warn¬
ings—Sympallii-rs and Ant-ipatiuts—Existehcc of a Peculiar Force
dr Influence. ,«.■ . - ... ** ■"
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance fir Lucid Vision,“tqthout
'the Eyes-y-Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodiesi atja.
, Distance-Sympathy and Clairvoyance in'Regard to Absent Persons^
—Retro vision—T n tro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—'Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre-
i dieted—Prediption of Changes in theliealt'a-or State of the Seer—
1 Prediction qf'Accidenfe, and'of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous! Clairvoyance—Strikihg'Case of it—Spontaneous Retro vision
(and Prevision—Pecul iari ties of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes-
. merised Persons—Tr ansference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Eleetrri-Bioiogy, Eiectro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially:the1 same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
■ the Conscious or Waking'State—Dr. Darling’aMethod ana its Effects
:—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—•
’ Control Exercised by the jOperator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
L —The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied;
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural arid Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Importers—Luminous Emanations—Extasls
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s JExtatlcs—Visions of the S >1 ritual
World.
[ 'CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — SnaU Telegraph
Founded on It.r
CHAPTER IXAction of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—-Researches of Reichenbach—HlsOdyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, qr with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications mf
Mesmcrism-^Phsysiological, Therapeutical, eta—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic; Divination, Witchcraft, etc:; explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced' 'to Natural Causes—Apparitions— Second Sight is
Wakinjt.Clairvoy.ance—Predictions of Various Kinds. ■ -
CHAPTBR X :—Art Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A ForceqOdyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly'Exists,
:and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
.Characters—DUBcuUie.s of the Subiecb—Effects of Odyle—Sonfiraui*
'jbulisflr—r'Sflggestiqri/ Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Jiriaid Vision—
: Odyllc Emanations—Odylrc Trace? followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witriifirjift—The Magic Crystal, and MifsjKJeJe. dlridiTcd
(Walking Clairvoyance—Uujversal Sympathy—Lucid PcrMption of
(the Future. ' * ' * •.> '
CHAPTER XIInterest Felt, in Mesmerisin i.y Men of Science
.—Dili.; Liinits of Scieiitilic Caution—Piactical liiiits—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Falluref-’Mesmeriam a Serious
Tldug—C.iitions to berStudentr-Oppoeition’ to be Expected.
i eHAPrER XIIPhenomena Observed in the ..Conscimis or
"Waking SOit^Effectsof .Suggestion on.PersoiiS iri.ari Imiu'cssible
State—Mi'.''4jMvis’s Experiments With and 'WittibutfSuggestion—
Cases—Dr. 'Darling’s Experiments—Cases — Conscious' or.'Wakluig
CUirvoyaricS, Produced by Passes, or by . Concfiitration'—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces' Waking
Lricidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—MejSne'rised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the'Mesmeric ?8feep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Autrtor Throwii
into Mesmeric Sleep-Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Plireno.-M'esmermn’Mfi .tlie Sleep .
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Stari}—Cmcs—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Hetrovislon.
CHAPTER XIV:—DirectBiairvoyidrod—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy-
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of AfcXls—Other Cases. »
CHAPTER XV:—^Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes ’
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmefisth—Concluding
Remarks, and Summaiy. „
: London: W. H. Harrlsofi, 38, Great. Ruosell-s treet, VV.O.
SPrinteit tor^the! Proprietor’ by Bkvxribub & Co!, at the
? Holboni Prfntifig Works, Ftillwood's RentR High Holborn,
- m the Parish of St. Amdrew- above-Bar and St. George
; the .Martyr, London, and published by E. W. aiakn, Ave
! Maria-lane, London,'E.d.
