jRegistbbed as a Newspaper.
joUS^S^ ^^yCBo^og^iCSi^ ^di^Kc5s<.'
(i.ltet biilj S^xnfxial^m m (&tml
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : xi, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Er?:herzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: g6, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 3ig, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 259.—(Vol. XL—No. 6.) LONDON: FRIDAY, AUGUST 10, 1877.
OTontentg,
An Era of Enervation      ... ... 61
Conversations with a Haunting Spirit  61
Spiritualism and Swedenborgianism   62
The Teachings of Spiritualism   ...  63
The Last Days of Mr. Robert Dale Owen 64
Evil Relative, Not Absolute. No. 11... 64
An Extraordinary Apparition  65
"Why is so Little Heard of Memerism ? By Captain James 66
Healing Mediumship. By Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld ... 67
Investigators’ Seances  ...  67
PoetryByron on Dreams—Child’s Faith  68
Correspondence:—More Marvels at Malvern—Materialisa¬
tion of Spirit Heads. No. VII.—Myrrh—The Flying
Saint—A Speculation relating to the High Art of Ancient
Greece—The Difficulties of Inquirers—The Liverpool
Psychological Society.,  ... 68
The Healing Power of Mesmerism  70
Mediums  71
The Last Days of Mr. Robert Dale Owen   72
A Singular Story of a Lost Diamond Pin  72
Answers to Correspondents 72
Paragraphs:— A Ghost, 63 ; Education, 63 ; Religious
Mania, 65; A Wandering Spirit, 65; The Mistake of a
Somnambulist, 67; Spirits not Infallible, 67; Organisa-.
tion, 67 ; Mr. Robert Dale Owen’s Widow, 67 ; A Heathen
Prayer, 67; Ejusdem Generis, 67 ; The British Associa¬
tion 1877 Meeting, 67; Crazed by the Revival, 71 ; Facts
versus Materialism, 71; Other Worlds than Ours, 71;
Mrs. Tappan-Richmond’s Trance Utterances   71
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER :
A Record of the Progress oj the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): JPrince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;\His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Set, Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Pardon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the*1 Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bov. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Gxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ^United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,SM.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capueines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office,
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Cl ARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
J and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff, Ad¬
dress, G Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O,
Agenda for August, 1877.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be closed on
Monday, August 20th, and will reopen on Monday, September
3rd.
Friday, Zrd.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Seance Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
„ 10th.—Reception to the Baron and Baroness von
Vay, at 38, Great Russell-street. Admission
to members and friends, Is. Chair at 8 p.m,
Tuesday, Uth—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Friday 17th.—House and Offices Committee at 5.30 p.m.
COMMITTEES OP THE B.N.A.S.
Experimental Research Committee:—Mr. D. G. Fitz-Gerald,
M.S.Tel.E. (Chairman), Mr. O. F. Varley, F.R.S., Mr. W. H.
Coffin, Dr. O. Carter Blake, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. C. C.
Massey, Rev. W. Stain ton Moses, Rev. W. Newbould, Mr. E.
Dawson Rogers, Mr. Geo. King, Mr. H. Withall, Mr. J. W.
Gray, Mr. D. H. Wilson, Mr. T. H. Edmands, Mr. C. Blackburn,
Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. F. Barrett, Mr. G. O. Joad, Mr. F. W.
Percival, Captain James.
Finance Committee:—Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. Martin
R. Smirh, Mr. Alex. Calder.
House and Offices Committee: — Mr. E. Dawson Rogers
(Chairman), Mr.' Algernon Joy Mrs. Maltby, Mr. A. Calder,
Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. E. T. Bennett. *mni
Soiree Committee:—Miss. H. Withall (Lady President),
Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr.
A. Joy, Mr. E. T. Bennett.
Library Committee:—Mr. A. Joy (Chairman), Rev. W. New¬
bould, Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald,, Mr. E. Dawson
Rogers.
Seance Committee:—Mr. W. Newton (Chairman), Mrs. Fitz¬
Gerald, Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. H.
Withall, Mr. T. H. Edmands, Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. E, Dawson
Rogers, Rev. W. Stainton Moses, Mrs. Maltby.
Correspondenee Committee:—Mr. A. Calder, Mr. E. Dawson
Rogers, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. A. Joy.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
(As exhibited at the Caxton celebration), is a self-inking one
and can easily be worked by a child of ten. Ils work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens of type, &c., &c., post free 13 stamps.
O. G. SQUINTANI S Co., PATENTEES.
Show Rooms :—18, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Price from £3 to £9 10$.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by ,
Pear's, 91, Great Russell-etreet, London.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
RALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliaMe with the British National Association of Spiritualists
Pmnfimnnvr'i*
HENRY D. JENCKEN,’ ESQ., M.R.L
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association, for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—53, Sigdon Road, Dalston lane, dalston,
London, E.
(Close to Hackney Downs Station, Great Eastern Railway,
and five minutes’ walk of Hackney Station, North London
Railway.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The to# Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have' the privilege of attending the public seances or
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines aro
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
ormationof circles and conduct ot seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
WILLIAM FLETCHER, THE
• AMERICAN SPEAKER, WILL GIVE HIS LEC¬
TURE, “A Half Hour from Alexandria to Jerusalem,” at
Langham Hall, August 6th, in connection with Mrs. Weldon’s
regular Concert.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with tha
quiet and order essential to English Customs,
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.
SOCIABLE EVENINGS.
Every Monday Evening throughout the year, at 8 p.m., at tha
Langham Hall, Great Portland-street, for the benefit of Mrs.
Weldon’s Orphanage. The first Concert took place on Monday
evening, November 6, 1876.
Stalls (a limited number), 5s. each; centre seats, area (a
limited number), 2s. 6d. each. Admission, Is. Transferable
tickets, for a series of three months: stalls, £2 2s.; centre
seats, area, £1 Is.; unreserved seats, 10s. 6d. Mrs. Weldon
earnestly solicits subscriptions, donations, or old clothes
towards the increase of her Orphanage, which she started
eight years ago, and which has, till now, been supported
entirely by herself. Mrs. Weldon has been obliged, for want
of a larger income, to refuse as many as five forsaken children
in one week. Tickets may he obtained, and subscriptions,
donations, &c., received by Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House
Tavistock-square, London, W.C.
11
THE SPIBITUALIST,
August 10, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873,)
President.
Alexander Gaidar,Esg., 1, Hereford-squ^re, WestBrompton, $.W.
, yice-Presidwti.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfteld, Dldsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Ht'nywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Joncken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaoe, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., H.M.S. “ Malabar, ’ Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, vanbrugh-park-road. Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 84, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T.j 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Bemers-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N ,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. HJ M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
J. K. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson^Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A. r ^ ’
Mrs. J. M. Snear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes-,Esq.,Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 286, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rug du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Obl. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq , M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste/Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
MdHe. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris-
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr, Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr.’ A. E. Nefhrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock,-54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscner Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-streef, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad^Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
GRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
will be published as soon as Mrs. W eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Da Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolner, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, "W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
MR. C, E. 'WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLAGE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 178, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Speaker,
• will deliver Orations and Poems to public or
private audiences in any part of the United Kingdom. For all
particulars address to him at Eagle House, 14, Sill wood-road
Brighton.
ESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
PIANOFORTE for Sale (transposing), by
Chew. Fine and brilliant tone; stand any amount of
wear. Price £30; worth double. J. Marks, 286, Portobello-
road, Notting-hill.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRIT¬
UALISTS.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Sxmpkin, Marshall & Co.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s/ Trtjbner & Co.—VI. Price 12s.; England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers. 
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit.of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the. rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London Spirii-
uali^t Office.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems qf the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.  
KEVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fondS par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris, Post-Office orders payable
to M, Leymarie.
MUSICAL BOX.—A fine Musical Box,
eight-aired, and in good condition, to be RAFFLED
FOR. Thirty-two shares at half-a-crown each. A few shares
still to be disposed of. Application to be made at once to the
Secretary, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo.
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “HeavenOpened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published^ price 4d.
Clairvoyance, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
800ybr Is., post free,, or 500for Is. tod., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR: DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
The food that we live on. in¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomena], Histosical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
VojLujviE Eleven. Humber Six.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 10th, 1877.
AN ERA OF ENERVATION.
The apparent decadence of the chivalric spirit in modern j
times deserves the notice of those who now study by per- !
sonal observation the evolution of religious phenomena,
actions of self-sacrifice for the sake of principle being com- j
paratively so rare. Legends tell how, in the days of old, j
men went forth to battle and to die for the sake of that |
which they believed to be true, and how, rather than sacri- I
fice their principles, they preferred to sleep beneath their |
altar tombs, presenting not only marble but moral monu- j
ments for the elevation of the religious sentiment of pos- I
terity. As the reign of physical force wanes, as the semi- j
savage era of the cutting of throats dies out, and that of the j
reign of intellect gains ground, the same chivalric spirit j
may be sought, but can it be found ? Where are the people |
who say—“ This thing is true, and though father, mother, j
friend or fortune fail me, I will testify to the same. Though |
the heavens should fall, I will not temporise with a lie, j
whether there be final compensation for good or evil or no ?” j
Take an example—Where is the man of science, of reli- j
gion, of literature, or of capital, in a primarily ascendant j
position, who, knowing Spiritualism to be true, says, § I will [
carry my life and its former objects in my hand, and, risking j
all I have, will go forth to battle if not to die over this one |
truth?” No such spirit is now generally prevalent, and j
even among the more independent thinkers and actors, fear |
of what “ people will say,” or what Mr. Smith or Mr. Jones I
will think, is an all-potent influence. If Dr. Slade had j
been locked up because of the ignorance of two men, no j
Spiritualist who knew slate-writing phenomena to be true
had any right to be out of prison, or to stop short of fully j
supporting him in defending the truth attacked. Yet we |
doubt if twenty men and women can be found who would have j
so fought, and have knowledge only of about two. From a j
few noble souls at the top, down to a few miserable creatures at
the bottom, who would have advised him to run away from
his bail, an infinite gradation may be found; but what is
the proportion of the chivalric spirit now to that of the days
of old? Very small, to all appearance.
The truth cannot be too often or too strongly promulgated
from the spiritual press and the spiritual platform, that no
man is worth much morally or religiously, who is not will¬
ing to uphold, to the extent of self-sacrifice, the religious
truths he holds most dear, and if need be, to suffer for them
to the death. Too many people live milk-and-water lives
nowadays, caring more than anything else for the safety
of their miserable carcases, which encase spirits destitute of I
nearly everything in the shape of chivalry or nobility.
CONVERSATIONS WITH A HAUNTING- SPIRIT.
Among several interesting cases of hauntings detailed in j
a discussion at the last National Conference of Spiritualists, j
Mr. Morse told of a female spirit who, through his suffering, |
and be it remembered that soul-physicians must always j
suffer personally, “ had been able to cut the cords which j
bound her to disagreeable conditions.” Miss Kislingbury also !
showed that, in France, there are mediums who give them- |
selves up to seeking communion with unhappy spirits, under j
the impression, and I believe a right impression, that they j
thereby bring them relief. In order to show how this alle- j
viation may be afforded in the case of hauntings, without |
even visiting the haunted place itself, I quote a history I
taken from Mr. Kardec’s Heaven and Hell, which also gives !
not only evidence of the superior efficacy of prayers over I
exorcism, but a more intelligible and particular instance of I
the use of “ prayers for the dead ” than is generally under- |
stood by that term. It is a saddening and weird case— j
one of the many which Miss Blackwell is soon about to !
publish—although in the above-named book the bright side 1
! of the picture is, to say the least, quite as fully developed as
j the dark.
In a little house near Castelnaudary, strange noises were
| wont to be heard, and different manifestations occurred
| there through which the house obtained the credit of being
| haunted by some evil genius. On this account it was
; exorcised in 1848, by the priests, without any good result.
I The owner, M. D , having determined to inhabit it, died
! there suddenly some years after; and his son, who made up
| his mind to inhabit it also after his father’s death, one day
} as he was entering one of the rooms received a hard blow
| from an unknown hand; as he was quite alone, he had no
I doubt but that it must have occurred through an occult
i cause, and on that account he resolved to leave the house
] for good. There was a tradition in the country round,
| according to which it was believed that some great crime had
| been committed in this house in former days.
The spirit that had given the blow, having been evoked at
| the Paris Spiritualist Society in 1859, manifested itself with
j great violence, and every effort to calm it was powerless. The
| medium’s guide was interrogated on the subject and he thus
| answered, u This is a spirit of the worst description; it is a
| veritable monster; we forced it to come here, but we could
| not constrain it to write, spite of all that was said to it; it
| has its free will, and the wretched spirit makes a bad use
j of it.”
Q. (to the guide). Is this spirit susceptible of im-
| provement?
A. Why not? Are they not all so, this one like the
| rest? Nevertheless you must expect to find difficulties;
I but, perverse as he is, good in return for evil will end in
| touching him. Pray for him first, and evoke him in a
| month ; you will then be able to judge of the change which
| will have taken place in him.
The spirit, evoked a second time, showed himself more
1 tractable; then, by little and little, he became submissive
| and repentant. From explanations furnished by this and
| by other spirits, we learned that in 1808 he inhabited this
j house, where he had assassinated his brother, through
| jealousy, suspecting him to be his rival. He cut his
[ brother’s throat while he was sleeping; and some years
| after he did the same to the woman, the cause of his
! jealousy, whom he had married after his brother’s death.
I He died at the age of eighty, in the year 1569, never having
I been punished for his evil deeds, for he lived in times of
! I confusion. Since his death it appears that he has never
II ceased to seize opportunities for doing harm, and has been
I j the cause of many accidents in that house. A seeing medium
!j who was present at the first evocation, saw him at the
II moment they were trying to make him write; he shook the
| medium’s arm with much force; his aspect was horrible;
' | he was only covered by a shirt, smeared all over with blood,
! | and he held a poignard in his hand.
Q. (to the medium’s guide). Will you be so good as to
| describe the especial kind of punishment that this spirit is
j undergoing ?
A. It is a terrible punishment for him. He has been
! condemned to dwell in the house where the crime was com-
| mitted, without being able to direct his thoughts to any other
I subject than his crime, which is ever before his eyes, and he
| believes himself condemned to this punishment for eternity.
| He feels himself constantly as if at the moment of com-
! mitting the crime ; all other recollections are taken from
| him, and all communication with any other spirit is inter-
| dieted; he cannot remain, when on earth, anywhere but in
| this house, and if he is in space, he is there in darkness and
| solitude.
Q. Is there any way of getting him dislodged from this
I house ?
62
THE SPIKITUALIST.
August 10, 1877.
A. If persons wish to get rid of the obsessions of spirits |
of this nature, it is easily done by praying for them; that is j
what men always neglect to do. They prefer trying to j
frighten spirits with the forms of exorcism, which are, in !
fact, a great amusement to the spirits. jj i
Q. Can the spirit be dislodged by giving to persons j
interested the idea of praying for him, and by doing so |j
ourselves?
A. Yes. But remark that I said “pray,” and not merely |
repeat a prayer. .
Q. He has been there then for two hundred years ? Does !
he judge time as he would have done in the flesh; that is, jj
does time really appear as long or less long than it would to j
us here ? j j
A. It appears to him longer; he can never sleep. ij
Q. This spirit, spite of his inferiority, is open to the
good effects of prayer; we have found the same results in
the case of other spirits equally perverse, and of the most
brutal natures; how is it, then, that spirits more enlightened
and of more developed intelligence, so often demonstrate a i
complete absence of good feeling ; how is it that such as these
last will laugh at the most sacred things, and are, in fact,
touched by nothing, going on with their cynicism to the
lowest degree of depravaity ?
A. Prayer has noj effect except in favour of the spirit
who repents. That spirit who, urged by pride, revolts
against God and persists in his disorders, even exaggerating
them as do these unhappy spirits, for such as these, prayers !
can do nothing and will do nothing until some spark of |
repentance shall be made manifest in them. The want of j
efficacy in prayer for such as these is part of their punish- j j
ment; prayer is a solace for those only who are no longer j j
quite hardened. I I
Q. When one finds a spirit quite inaccessible to the good j j
effects of prayers, is that a reason for abstaining from i j
prayer on his account ? j j
A. No, certainly not; for sooner or later it may triumph j j
over his hardness of heart, and influence him for good. j j
The above is the case with some sick persons, on whom j j
remedies have no effect for a long time ; the effect is not j j
appreciated at the time ; with others, on the contrary, they j j
act at once. If we will but imbue ourselves with this prin- j j
ciple that all spirits are perfective, and that not one of them j j
is eternally and fatally doomed to evil, we must compre- j j
hend that prayer, sooner or later, must have its effect, and j j
that that prayer which appears of no avail at first, does not j I
the less plant the salutary germs which predispose the j j
spirit to good, though it touch it not at once. It would be jj
wrong, then, to be discouraged, because one does not sue- | j
ceed immediately. j j
Several communications with this spirit brought out a not- j
able change in his moral state. Here are some of his |
answers :— j
Q. (To the spirit). Why were you not able to write the j
first time that we called you ? j
A. I would not. I
Q. Why would you not.' ' j
A. Ignorance and brutality ruled. j
Q. You can now quit the house at Castelnaudary when j
you will ? . j
A. I am permitted because I profit by your good counsel. j
Q. Do you find alleviation?
A. I begin to hope. !
Q. If we could see you now, under what appearance should
we see you ?
A. You would see me in my shirt but with no dagger.
Q. How is it that you would no longer hold your dagger ;
what have you done with it ? (
A. I curse it; God has spared me the sight of it.
Q. If Mr. D  (he who received the blow) should re- J |
turn to!the house, would you hurt him ? i
A. No, for I repent. J j
Q. But if he should defy you again ? j
A. Oh ! do not ask me that! I could not help myself, r j
that would be more than I could bear—for I am but a miser- ] I
able wretch; j
Q. Do you foresee the end of your punishment ?
A. Oh! not yet; it is already much more than I deserve to j I
k now, thanks to your intercession, that it will not last for ever. ‘
Q. Will you describe the situation you were in before we
called you the first time. You must understand that we ask
you this to have a means of being useful to you, and not
from curiosity.
A. As I have told you, I had consciousness of nothing in
the world but my crime, and could not quit the house where
I committed it, except to raise myself into space, where all
was solitude and darkness around me; I could not give you
an idea of what it was; I never understood anything about it;
directly I raised myself upwards in the air, it was dark, it
was void; I do not know what it was. Now I feel much more
remorse, and I am not constrained to remain in that fatal
house; I am permitted to wander on the earth, and to im¬
prove myself by what I am now able to see and think upon.
But still I only comprehend more fully the enormity of my
crimes ; and if I suffer less in one respect, my tortures are
greater in another through remorse; but, at any rate, I
can now hope.
Q. During your long isolation, your captivity, so to speak,
did you then feel remorse ?
A. Not the least, and that is the reason why I suffered so
long. I only began to feel remorse, which came upon me
unexpectedly, when the circumstances occurred which led to
my invocation, and to which I owe this beginning of my
deliverance.
SPIRITUALISM AND SWEDENBORGIANISM.
The relation of Swedenborgianism to Spiritualism is a
story for a humorist; stolid should he be who would not
chuckle over its details well told.
Years ago when familiarity with spirits was rare, Sweden-
borgians used to snap up and treasure every scrap of super¬
natural intelligence. The grand common objection to
Swedenborg was his asserted acquaintance with angels and
devils—it seemed an insuperable obstacle to faith. For its
reduction, his followers maintained that open intercourse
with heaven was man’s ancient privilege, that he lost it by
degradation in worldliness and sensualism, and that he
would recover it by regeneration. Moreover, they would
urge, even in his present low state, he is not altogether left
without sensible evidence of a world beyond the tomb, and
straightway a budget of modern proofs of supernatural
existence would be opened. Many of the early Sweden-
borgians had wonderful private experiences to relate. Hind-
marsh could have contributed many an anecdote to Mrs.
Crowe. Spirits rapped in Noble’s study. Clowes professed
himself an amanuensis of angels, and that many of his
sermons were dictated by spirits in the night.
A people in such a case, it might be supposed, were ready
to run wild after mesmerism, or spiritual manifestations,
but whoever had so conjectured would have proved greatly
mistaken. Clairvoyants and mediums confirmed in general
Swedenborg’s other world revelations, but contradicted him
in many particulars. This was intolerable ! Contradicting
our heavenly messenger! At once the old line of argument
was abandoned. Nothing was more wicked than to converse
with spirits. Spirits are liars; intercourse with them is
dangerous and disorderly, and forbidden by the Word. True,
Swedenborg did talk with spirits, but he held a special
license from the Lord; he warned us of its perils; and his
example is no pretext for all and sundry.
It is told of Thackeray, that seeing oysters displayed in
one window at 7d. a dozen and in another at 6d., he remarked
to his companion, “ How these shopkeepers must hate each
other?” The anecdote is a fair illustration of Sweden¬
borgianism versus Spiritualism. Whilst the Spiritualists
offer wide and easy access to the other world, the Sweden-
borgians would limit all acquaintance therewith to the re¬
ports of “ our author.” If you presume to any knowledge
better or beyond, you are a bad man. It is no longer the
Solifidian or the Tri-personalist (as in the days of Clowes
and Hindmarsh) who is the butt of Swedenborgian archery,
but the Spiritualist.
In return, the Spiritualists rank Swedenborg among their
chief apostles, and question and adopt his testimony at dis¬
cretion ; but this liberal indifference only adds fire to the
jealousy of the Swedenborgians, and fiercer and thicker fall
the blows. It is the case of the big jolly navvy and his
August 10, 1877. THE SEIEITTJALIST. 63
furious little wife over again: “ Why do you let her beat
you so ?” “ Oh, sir, it pleases ^r, and she don’t hurt
— White's Life of Swedenborg.
THE TEACHING'S OF SPIRITUALISM.
Thb following is one of the Sunday discourses delivered by Mr. John
Chapman, at 63, Newland-street, Liverpool:—
“What is the good of Spiritualism? ” is a question often asked by
persons who cannot “read sermons in stones,” and “see good in every¬
thing; ” it therefore becomes a duty binding upon those who see a light,
however feeble it may be, to make known to others that which they
believe to be true.
The question, “ What good can come out of Spiritualism ? ” is more
easily asked than answered. What are those higher blessings and
religious teachings which it holds out to mankind ? When we look at
its strange and sometimes apparently meaningless mental and physical
phenomena, sometimes we may feel bewildered, and see no straight line
to higher and nobler ends.
What I have characterised as meaningless phenomena, had their
counterparts in years gone by. For instance, the marriage in Cana of
Galilee in the presence of Christ when the water was turned into wine,
and certain other phenomena which took place at about that time. The
question very likely then arose in many minds, ‘ ‘ Of what utility are
these things ? ” Mankind seemed in no way ready to receive them;
they would not have them, but derided Him through whom they came,
and persecuted Him to death. Even His disciples made no impression
on the multitude, nor proclaimed to them at that time the high teachings
they had received from Christ. Those who received healing benefits
did not always testify to them. But the facts were in the world, and
they presented problems which had to be solved. Although as it was
said, “Light had come into the world,” yet that light was rejected by
many; though men had ears to hear they would not listen, and though
they had eyes to see they would not observe. But the facts were in
the world, and how to utilise them was the great problem to be solved.
One who was born in due time, as he himself says, was convinced of a
life beyond the grave by the mysterious appearance of a spirit form,
and by hearing a voice which he recognised as that of One whom the
world had put to death—the man Christ Jesus. That mysterious voice
heard, and that spirit form seen while going to Damascus, awakened
Saul to a conscious belief of a life beyond the grave, and gave a rational
interpretation to all that he had heard of the Nazarene. Saul began to
reason from the facts within his own experience, “ That voice I know
and believe to be the voice of Jesus; if so, Jesus is still alive, and if
life after death is inherited by one, then this continued life must be for
all.” This fact being proved to Paul’s mind, he went straightway to the
disciples of Christ at Damascus, and remained with them several days,
where he no doubt heard much living testimony as to what Christ had
taught his disciples, viz., the forgiveness of sins both by God and man,
and the gift of eternal life, which J esus had promised He would prove
to be a fact, for He had said that He would go away for a little time
and then return. This was proved to be a fact to the disciples, and was
afterwards proved to Paul. He, with others, then preached that life
was not merely temporal, but eternal; he also promulgated the higher
teachings of Christ as he had learned them from the disciples. In his
teachings he quoted phenomenal facts from Jewish history in common
with those of Christ, and told his own experiences bearing upon the
problem of eternal life, which he testified was the gift of God to all men. I
have said that the facts presented to the world in the days of Christ and
His disciples, furnished a problem to be solved, and it never had its
solution till Paul declared that “ Life and immortality had been brought
to light,” through the man Christ Jesus, and this he preached in every
possible place.
Spiritualists have the same glad tidings to declare to the world, based
upon facts within their own experience. If Spiritualism proves any¬
thing, it proves resurrection from the dead, it solves the problem, “If a
man die shall he live again ?”
During the last twenty-seven years, certain spiritual phenomena have
attracted the attention of not merely all in this country, but of those
dwelling in all lands, and the question presses itself upon us—“ What
use can we make of the facts ?” I answer, |‘ Any use we like.” There
are some observers who have sat at the spirit circle, seen the phenomena,
heard the direct spirit voice, seen the moving of solid objects, had com¬
munications from outside intelligences, but have let everything pass
without further thought, beyond being just a little interested for the
time. Another and more scientific class wish to have tests, and an
assurance that what is seen is real; when this evidence has been given
they go away thinking that they have witnessed nothing more than a
simple phenomenon which they cannot explain.
Others observe, believing in the facts, and are ready to fight for the
truth of the phenomena, but that is all. What can we expect that such
people will make of Spiritualism ? Such people are but holding Spirit¬
ualism down in the dust; their souls are never stirred by the beautiful
reflection that their dear departed friends have once again endeavoured
to meet them in loving sympathy, and were glad of a way being opened.
Let there be a higher Spiritualism, such as I have referred to in the
life and character of Paul, for Spiritualism points as much to eternal
life, and proves it as forcibly, as did anything that transpired in the days
of Christ or His apostles. If our departed friends live, we shall live
also. What thought could be more ennobling ? What gospel should be
more welcome to the human breast than that of immortality and eternal
life?
It is a duty binding upon every Spiritualist not to disgrace the cause
he has espoused. The same thing which will disgrace any other system
of religion will disgrace Spiritualism.
; | I will quote a sentence or two uttered by the Dean of Manchester,
j (| from a paper read by him at a Church Congress at Plymouth, on Tues-
| v day, October 3rd, 1876, on “ The Causes and Influences of Unbelief in
| >i England.” He spoke of the poverty of spiritual life in a great many
i (| who held the truth. Men who believed in the cardinal doctrines of this
j (i faith, he says, ought to show the influence of that faith in their lives,
|; for the professed infidel had a large body of allies within the camp.
I (i Thus the Church’s foes were those of her own household, whose negH-
| si gent lives condemned their avowed convictions, and led men who were
| y | without to remain in their unbelief, because they saw that professed
| (! belief was to so great an extent barren of all fruit. This applies with
| (\ equal propriety to the professors of all religions,
i > i What has been the secret of the growth of all religions of all countries
! (| and ages among the races of mankind ? The answer to my mind is in
| (| plain words, “ Good conduct and sincerity on the part of their professors.”
|) j The principles laid down in Christ’s sermon on the Mount have and
111 always will be the foundation and superstructure of true religion. One
|(| word uttered by Jesus covers the whole groundwork of true religion-—
} that word is “Righteousness.” Nobody, I think, ever before or since
I (| has expressed so clearly the meaning of this word as He did. It did not
11| consist, He said, in false professions or in deception of any kind, but in
|) i honesty of heart and life; not in any outward performance to be seen
(| of men, but a righteous motive governing the heart. Acts of goodness
> | were not to be held up to be seen of men, but to spring from an internal
} | sympathetic feeling. You remember how He accused the Scribes and
(I Pharisees of hypocritical religious ceremonies, and how He told the
| j world who were the blessed, and who would see God. He laid down
/1 the principles of true religion, and those principles must be incorporated
(i with Spiritualism by those of us who acknowledge its truths; if not,
II then our Spiritualism becomes to us a mere speculation, meaningless,
)j and absurd. The goodness of God in permitting communion of his
(j children, whether in the body or in the spirit, will then have no abiding
(| influence upon our affections, or make us work out that perfect life and
/1 holy purpose, which would raise us to a higher state. This, however,
(| is the privilege of those to whom Spiritualism has become an abiding
|! truth.
j i There may be difficulties in the way of this religious enlightenment,
(! especially among those from among the Materialists who have been
11 convinced of the truth of the facts and phenomena of Spiritualism,
j We should not forget that such minds have for long years been in the
(| habit of looking at all spiritual subjects as cunningly devised specula-
) i tions intended to uphold priestcraft and kingcraft, but from the ranks of
! the Materialists have flowed a very large number to swell the ranks of
(i Spiritualists, and who have received the light so far as its phenomenal side
>; could present it to them. But without they gain religious perceptions
}j to lead them to a higher acquaintance with the teachings of Spirit-
(i . ualism I cannot perceive what benefit they will derive from it. I do not
11 say that materialists rank amongst those who disregard virtue or good-
) i ness of life, but when the knowledge of another and a higher life breaks
(! into their souls, it may yet be difficult to train their minds to regard
11 Spiritualism as a stimulant to higher and better thoughts of their
) | eternal nature; yet if they see that it adds another link to the chain of
(i existence, that knowledge should lead them to higher thoughts of God
j | and of their own responsibilities; Spiritualism will then become to
)j their minds one of the brightest beacons in the pathway of life, shedding
(| over their souls a brighter joy than earth could ever give. Toothers
) i I would say, do you wish Spiritualism to benefit the soul ? Then look
)\ to what it indicates; its work is goodness, its prospect is eternal, its
height is glory, its depth is love, and its breadth is humanity.
)j A Ghost.—Spirits are appearing under every conceivable circum-
stance and condition in this country at the present time. Whenever
)| any avenue is presented, they are ever ready to take advantage of the
)| same. It appears from the Warren (R. I.) Gazette, that some time
(j last winter, quite a sensation was produced in Hartford, Conn., by
)| the disappearance of Judge Matson, who, although his fate still re-
mains unknown, is supposed to have drowned himself in Long Island
|l Sound. It is now stated in the papers that a few evenings since a
ij venerable old gentleman, known in the church of which he is a deacon
)| as “Father Winship,” saw and talked with the apparition of the
( missing man in the streets of Hartford. The story does not appear to
be a mere idle tale. Deacon Winship gives a circumstantial account
of the interview, and adds that ho was greatly affected by so strange a
(| meeting.—Religio -Philosophical Journal.
Education.—Le Messager says : “In Switzerland, where instruction
\| is obligatory, only four out of one hundred cannot read ; in Holland,
>1 three out of one hundred ; in Norway, four or five out of one hundred.
)\ In Denmark every child goes to school till fourteen years of age. In
(\ Sweden, where instruction is also obligatory, there is not one that
)j cannot read. In Germany the same system prevails with children from
(! six to fourteen or fifteen years, a measure soon accepted among the
V customs of the people; while among the soldiers only five out of one
)l hundred cannot read. In France, of one hundred recruits twenty-three
(j could neither read nor write. Of one hundred marriages thirty-four
\ i couples could not sign their names; instruction not obligatory.
;! Belgium ditto, and of the recruits of 1862, thirty could not read or
?j write. In England half of the inhabitants cannot read; instruction
(| not obligatory. In Austria there is the same condition of things. In
)j Italy (still more Roman Catholic), of one hundred inhabitants seventy-
(j one know not how to read. In Spain (still more Catholic and still
si worse) of one hundred seventy-five can neither read nor write.
)! Portugal the same as Spain. In the Argentine Republic a truly sad
(j state of ignorance exists, and shows what should be done for the
Si enlightenment and freedom of the people.” The Revelacion of Buenos
I i Ayres, first, and The Revelacion of Alicante subsequently have published
' i these startling facts.
64
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 10, 1877.
THE LAST DAYS OF MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN.
To the Editor of the “ Brooklyn Eagle.”
In your obituary notice of the late Robert Dale Owen in Tuesday’s
issue (June 26th), there is one error which, in justice to Spiritualists
and their cause, should be corrected, and which, from my knowledge of
the fairness which so generally characterises your article, I feel assured
you will correct when you are satisfied it is an error.
In your notice you said, “ But thousands in this country and in
others have read his Footfalls on the Boundaries of Another World,
Debatable Land, and other like books treating of the phenomena of
Spiritualism which it is said he in his latter days repudiated.”
I assure you there is no truth in this report. During the last three
years Mr. Owen did not fail to visit me whenever he came to New
York, and frequently he was my guest for one or two weeks at a time,
and left my house for his home at Lake George only nine days previous
to his death, having then been with me two weeks, and there were few
hours during that time when we were together in which Spiritualism,
either directly or indirectly, was not a subject, if not the subject of
our conversation, and not only was his belief in it as firm as at any
previous time, but his interest in it was undiminished.
In his note to me of May 25th, notifying me of his intended visit,
after stating that his principal object was to procure medical advice,
he adds:—
“ Aside from the immediate object, I shall be very glad to have
another chance of a few long talks with you on the great subject which
interests us both. For the last year I have scarcely had a chance to
talk of Spiritualism with any intelligent and experienced friend of
the cause, and I feel, I was going to say, hungry for such an oppor¬
tunity.’’
The italics are his own. I think you will admit that my assertions
are thus substantiated by his own words. You do him no more than
justice when you say that “ his domestic life was always pleasant, and
his charming personality was felt in all his relations in life. He did
valiant work in his early manhood, and his middle life and old age
were worthily spent in the service of humanity and in making the
happiness of those allied to him.” I would add, it has not fallen to my
lot to know a more unselfish, a truer, or better man.
Eugene Crowell, M.D.
196, Clinton-avenue.  ' 
EVIL RELATIVE, NOT ABSOLUTE.
No II.
The following is a continuation of the essay on “Evil” given
through the mediumship of Mrs. Webster :—
Evil, then, is negative, not positive ; a perversion, not a principle ;
a resultant, not a cause. In other words, it is one of the infinite forms
which the universal law of action and reaction assumes in worlds where
matter and spirit being yet undeveloped and unassayed, imperfection
is the general rule.
You say that if action and reaction be the universal law operating
throughout all space, as I originally averred, and that if evil, in oppo¬
sition to good, be one of its inevitable and necessary forms, then must
evil be perpetuated throughout eternity and all the realms of infinitude.
The error into which you fall here arises from your habit of generalising
everything; a philosophical habit, no doubt, but one which, in common
with all others, may be carried to excess, and then, like all excesses, it
generates error. Thus you take it for granted that all forms or ex¬
pressions of general law continue the same through every ascensional
phase of development. This is a fundamental error. The law, or
innate principle, is an eternal truth and a providential dispensation
directly emanating from the Creator, hence of necessity immutable and
co-eternal; but the forms under which it manifests itself vary ad
infinitum, developing more highly perfected and refined modes of
expression in proportion to the increasing purity and perfection of the
spiritual and material elements with which they have to deal.
You ask me to illustrate this action by some one of my graphic and
practical illustrations. Suppose, then, that grapes being pressed, are
converted into juice, the juice being fermented is converted into wine,
the wine being distilled is converted into alcohol, the alcohol into ether,
and then being subjected by implements and processes beyond terres¬
trial ken or manipulation, to transformations far more refined still than
anything human minds can conceive; each of these sublimated con¬
ditions evolves additional and higher properties and powers, highly
diversified and improved in all their influences and modes of action,
but not the less identical in their essence, and controlled by the same
law of action and reaction as at the outset: does not this afford you an
approximate notion of the ideas I wish to impart ?
The moderation and discrimination with which stimulants are
imbibed by the reformed and enlightened patient, will show how
widely different may be the effects of the juice of the grape under
modified and improved material and moral conditions. Moreover,
observe that even in its original and unrefined state, it is the abuse, not
the use, which is pernicious. The juice of the grape, in all its pristine
modifications, is never injurious, so long as its use is directed with
proper self-restraint, and a judicious adaptation of its strength to the
purpose for which it is destined and to the temperament of the
recipient; where such moderation and discernment are brought to bear,
it invariably does good, not harm. Thus you perceive that the com¬
parison, however material, is to the point on all counts. When men
are wise, self-dominating, and aspiring, the stimuli which God has
placed within them as springs and goads, and the temptations and
trials He has exposed them to in order to urge them forwards in the
race, and to purify, refine, and develope their innate capacities so as to
fit them to come with honour and profit out of their competitive
I) | examination, are put to the purpose for which they are destined, and
I (j prove the greatest of all benefits in consequence. When, on the
| [i contrary, men suffer themselves to be dominated or carried away with
111 them, the result is that peculiar form of reaction which in human
i ji conditions assumes the expression of that which we denominate “evil,”
| |i but which, being simply a plasm into which a deviation from its proper
i | i course has moulded an unrefined element, vanishes with the distortion
| (! which gave rise to its deformity, and with the elimination of the dregs
>; which gave it consistency.
/: You have still one remaining objection to start, after which you say
(i you will rest content with my explanations. Be it so. I, too, wish to
| >|. clear up every remaining doubt in your mind, and thus to satisfy you
11!, absolutely upon these moot points as far as possible. You ask how I
I | can reconcile the initiatory tutelage imposed upon the soul, and the
| > i arbitrary bias given to it ab origins by the animal forms it vivifies, pre-
| (| vious to entering upon its progressive human career, wi th that im-
! (1 partial justice which both you and I claim as one of the indispensable
II attributes of God, and also with the free will you feel and I assert to
( j be the noblest birthright of the soul. Nothing easier. God, knowing
| all things beforehand (as I, in common with all theologians and all
j logicians who are not Atheists, necessarily acknowledge), is enabled to
| allot to each individual germ those animal conditions best adapted to
j the future career, which, either in this world or another, that soul
j will turn to the best account. You say that this still leaves the prin-
I ciple of coercion at the bottom of the scale, since the nature of the
>], faculties or propensities which its animal conditions have stamped upon
j the soul, is indelible, and determines the future path, although the
(| choice of that peculiar idosyncracy does not depend upon itself. This
; j is a cavil, not a serious argument, and it is one which applies to the
j providential guidance of the soul through all its subsequent vicissi-
| tudes by means of stimulants, opportunities, suggestions, and chastise-
i ments, as well as to its starting point. Providential guidance—in
j other words, wise foresight and paternal direction—is not by any
(i means synonymous with the imposition of a force which abrogates free
(j will, and reduces the subject to the condition of an automaton acting
11 solely by another’s will. Only when the guidance is absolute, id est
when the subject is deprived of all power, means, or possibility of
| originating or exerting the principle or action of free volition, is he
! reduced to this condition. So long as the path is pointed out to him,
11 and the means proffered, he is at liberty to pursue or to quit it, to
j accept or to reject the suggestion and the aid held out to him; he thus
(j remains incontestably a free agent.
j I have told you (what all the laws of nature formulate no less con-
| clusively) that in creation the part assigned to woman in the scale of
(j being is subordinate to that of man ; nevertheless, the impartial equity
|| of the Creator recognising the right of every reasoning being to raise
I itself to whatever degree of superiority for which it has the aspiration,
u the energy, and the perseverance to qualify itself, has conceded to
j every female the power and the right to educate herself to a level in¬
ti tellectually, morally, and socially, to that of her master, whenever she
(i has sufficient determination to pursue this ambitious aim unflaggingly
11 through a succession of existences, thus forming to herself virile brains
h and faculties by dint of aspiration, labour, and consequent expansion.
11 So, likewise, is it with all souls. God, in His omniscence, seeing before-
11 hand what can be made of each, i.e., the amount of self-exertion to
| which souls can be stimulated under given conditions, provides them
11 with primitive organisation, and all such subsequent opportunities and
! i assistance as can be afforded to them, to enable them to advance in the
'j line He perceives they will take, compatibly with the curbs and re-
j straints which are requisite in a greater or less degree to all undeve¬
loped spirits. All such spirits pass through phases of weakness and
imperfection in order to prevent the propelling goads and temptations
becoming the instruments that shall hurry them to destruction.
Hence it results that souls morally and physically start in leading
strings, but the spiritual curbs are not bonds any more than the
physical ones.
Spiritual progression is similar to physical progression. It com-
| mences with absolute tutelage. This is the soul’s infancy. Then it
| goes through the different stages of childhood and adolescence, the
parental guidance to which it has been originally subjected being more
and more lightened with every succeeding epoch, till, as its adolescence
advances its free will is left wholly unshackled, subject only to the
correction which is drawn upon it by its frailties and its aberrations,
and which are destined by that extreme schooling of individual and
general experience — which not even the infallible guidance of the
| Almighty can equal or replace—to school it effectively for its higher
destinies. It is also destined to purify and develope it definitively for
j those sublime spiritual spheres, where sin and evil are absolutely
eliminated from the spiritual essence, and where progress, undefaced
by the grosser forms of reaction, proceeds in unsullied glory and beati¬
tude throughout eternity.
Here I close my argument on this intricate topic, which has so
j harassed and perplexed you ; if you are not satisfied, I can only say
| that you are hard to please, and must rest content with that which I
have told you, for the above is the sum total of the information I have
been enabled to obtain on the subject from “ reliable authorities,” as
j special correspendents express it in official language.
Mrs. Weldon’s lecture on her Orphanage went off excellently. On
September 3rd and 10th Mr. W. G. Colville will give trance addresses
to her listeners at the meetings.
Mr. C. C. Massey has given notice that at the Council meeting of
the National Association of Spiritualists next Tuesday, he will move a
resolution in relation to the Lunacy Laws Commission of the House of
Commons.
Ati&trsT 10, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
65
AN EXTRAORDINARY APPARITION.
{Translated from the “Revue Spirited June ls^, 1877.)
To the Spiritist Society, Paris*
Bordeaux, 22nd April, 1877.
Gentlemen,—I send you an account of an extremely curious case of
an apparition which appeared to one of my friends, a man of acknow¬
ledged honour, but whose name I am not permitted to publish. He
has been so good as to accompany me to M. Comera, to whom I had
related the facts, in order to confirm the history to him in all its details;
M. Comera has attached his signature. This affirmation is all the more
valuable because it comes from a man who is in no respect a follower
of our faith, but who is strongly attached to the Catholic religion,
through family tradition, education, and conviction.
(Signed) Georges Carton.
Narration.
“During my residence in Rome as a pontifical Zouave, I was an in¬
timate friend of the fencing-master of the regiment, named Y . We
both came from the same department in France, and I was very young;
these causes had induced him to treat me with kindness. When the
regiment was disbanded, Y returned to his family on the Loire.
Having resided at Bordeaux I had but rarely seen him since that time,
and at the period when the facts I am about to relate occurred, I had
not seen or heard anything of him for at least two years.
“ The facts I allude to took place about fifteen months ago. My wife,
waking me up suddenly in the middle of the night, cried out, e Michael,
Death! ’ I opened my eyes and beheld V—— on his knees on my
chest, looking fixedly at me. Without being the least put out by the
unexpected apparition, nor astonished at the singular fashion in which
it presented itself, I cheered my wife, saying, ‘ Holloa, why here is my
friend V—-—! What brings you here?’ I then begged V to get
off me, and to sit down; for, in fact, he incommoded me dreadfully; he
weighed so heavily on my chest.
“ y—_ gat himself down on the side of the bed, and told me that he
was just dead, and as soon as it was over he determined to pay me a
visit on account of our old friendship. Then he added, ‘ I will come
during three days and three nights, and will teach you the hey twist
{tour de cle). You know I mean that Italian fencing thrust {coup
d'escrime) which you never could get hold of at the time when you were
my pupil. This thrust will be of service to you, for before very long
you will be challenged to a duel, and this thrust will get you out of
the affair (te tirera de Vaffaire). He then added that before dying he
had charged his sister to send me his foils, which he .left me as a legacy
in remembrance of him.
“ He walked up and down, talking all the while. At one time he
took a cigar out of his pocket, already half smoked, and lighted it again
at an ember that he took from the hearth. After several hours of this
colloquy, in the course of which he told me of the deaths of several of
our old comrades in arms, events of which I was ignorant, but which
have been since confirmed, V  disappeared, saying that he would
return the following night to give me my lesson.
“ During the whole of the day I saw Y at my side; he followed
me everywhere. At length, fearing that I was under hallucination, I
wrote to my father, who lives in a place near where V  lived. I
explained to him what had happened, and begged him to let me know if
the former fencing-master was dead during the preceding night. My
father received my letter two days after. He went to see the sister of
V  , who confirmed every detail of my letter. My friend had died
some moments before his appearance to me, and he had, in fact, charged
his sister to send me his foils.
“ The next night I found myself pulled roughly by the arm. It was
Y ‘ Come, get up,’ he said. ‘ What for ?’—‘ To take your lesson.’
1 But it is useless; let me sleep.’ There was no good in resisting;
whether I would or no, he forced me to get out of bed, put a foil in my
hand, and began.
“ For four hours I was obliged to go on fencing. V  drove at
me, pressed me hard, without intermission, regardless of my fatigue;
and, at length, when he made up his mind to let me get back to bed, I
was broken down and bruised, but I had learned his key-twist, as he
called it. Well, it had been an impossibility with me before that night,
now it is familiar to me.
“ During all this drill my wife was looking on at me struggling in the
dusk, and, terrified at all she was witnessing, dared not breathe a word,
but kept on praying.
“ I pass over the details of the next day; they are unimportant. I
was in haste to get to the term fixed by my friend for the finish of his
appearances. For two days, whenever I thought of all this affair, I
abandoned myself to the most painful; the most disquieting reflections.
At moments I feared I had become mad, and I reasoned with myself, to
persuade myself that I still kept all my senses about me.
“ V came again the following night. I told him what agonies
his presence gave me, and I besought him to give me proof of his death,
to convince me that I was not dreaming. £ You were,’ I said to him,
‘ a well-known person in our society; I ought not to be the only one,
then, who is cognisant of your decease. Tell me some one who could
confirm it.’ It is well to add that, on account of the slowness of com¬
munication between Bordeaux and the locality where my father resides,
my father’s answer to my letter had not arrived.
“ V then said to me—‘ Buy the number of the Univers news¬
paper that will arrive here the day after to-morrow, you will there find
the news of my death.’ He departed, and on the second day after I
bought the Univers. His death was there announced, as he had told me.
Now, at the time that he made this prediction, the journal was not yet
printed.
“ Some time after, on the occasion of the convocation of the territorial
army, in which a grade had been awarded me, I had an altercation with
one of our colleagues, which necessitated a duel. It would not be discreet
I to enter into further details on this subject; I only allude to this inci¬
dent, because it corroborates that other prediction of Y ’s,«That
thrusts will be of good use to you, for before long you will be challenged,
and it will get you out of the affair.’
Since then, my friend appeared once more, four months back. Again
my wife awoke me, frightened at the noises that she heard in the house.
After a short time, we saw a human form walking about the chamber.
I recognised V . He was examining with curiosity everything that
he came near; he was rummaging the drawers, and leaving nothing in
its place. Finding on the washhandstand a scent-bottle, he turned
towards me, smelling it, and said to me, ‘ Odours! that’s pretty for an
old trooper.’
“Afterwards he passed into other rooms of our apartments, and (I
know not how to account for this), spite of the walls that separated me from
him, spite of the dim light that lighted him, I saw him distinctly from
my bed, without losing one of his movements. In the chamber where
our servant slept, he stooped for an instant over the forehead of the girl,
and kissed it; a prank which seemed to amuse him, for he turned again
towards me, and began to laugh, looking at me slyly. This reflection
then struck me: That he was still the jolly fellow that I had known.
He now returned to my chamber and opened the glass bureau, which he
began to rummage so curiously, that he had, so to speak, got into it.
Then, tired out with this visit, which had become importunate by its
length, and vexed by the terror he caused to my wife, I arose, and
sharply closed the door of the bureau, with the intention of shutting him
in, hoping thus to get rid of him. Vain was the attempt! Immediately
he stood again in the middle of the room, and said to me in a tone of
reproach, ‘ Ah! You would shut me in, would you? Very well!’ Then
passing through the shut window, he departed, but, in disappearing, he
struck the shutters with such violence that all the house rang with it.
The next day my neighbours asked me if I had heard this noise.
“ I have not seen him since.’’
Certified in conformity with the narration made before us,
A. Comera, chemist, Rue de Pessac, 63, Bordeaux.
Georges Carton, 36, Rue Magnan, Paris.
Religious Mania.—At the meeting of the South Shields Board of
Guardians, yesterday, the Chairman (Mr. J. Henderson) reported that
the Special Committee had visited the Lunatic Asylum, Sedgefield, and
found the inmates from the Union well cared for. He remarked that
there seemed to be an increase of ten or twelve inmates over last year.
The Rev. Mr. McKenzie asked if there was any information as to the
cause of the increased lunacy in the district. Mr. J. Crisp said that
the committee were struck with the fact that there were three joiners
all from one shop at Hebburn. Mr. Ramsay, relieving officer, said
the cause of the lunacy of the three joiners was religious mania. One
of the men was a very temperate man, and the other two were teeto¬
tallers. There was a religious foreman in the shop. (Laughter.) A
member:—“We had better apply to the foreman for the keep of
the three men.” The matter then dropped.—“ Newcastle Chronicle?
August Zrd.
A Wandering Spirit.—“A Subscriber ” writes to the Religio-Philo-
sophical Journal from Ontario, Canada, as follows:—“ Allow me to
report to you a singular circumstance which happened in the month of
May, 1875. I have been in business in this village for some time. My
sister was keeping house for me (off and on) about three-fourths of the
time; the remainder I lived alone. One night I retired to my room,
there being no person in the house but myself; shortly after retiring
I fell asleep, lying on my side with my back to the front of the bed.
About half-past two or three o’clock in the morning I felt myself dis-
■ turbed, as I thought when partly awakened, by some person in the
■ house. I felt the bed-clothing draw gently from my face and neck with
a very slight pressure on my shoulder. Being partly awakened by
these movements it seemed to me that some person was bending over
me to see me in the face. I now was thoroughly awakened, and
] knowing that there should be no person in the house but myself,
| I turned immediately to face the intruder, and behold, there stood
a lady a few feet from my bed, looking me full in the face. She
was an entire stranger; had this form been of the male sex, I
should have made war with it, but being, as it appeared, a lady,
I asked who she was, and received no reply. I was on the
| point of repeating my demand when the strange visitor moved away in a
| graceful manner, looking me steadily in the face till she was lost from
| view by passing into another room. I was so aroused by this strange
i occurrence that I slept no more that night. I examined the doors and
I windows of the house, and there was no way in which any human being
could gain access to my room. On meeting my sister the following
i day I related to her the circumstance, giving her a minute description
| of the features and general appearance of the strange visitor. After
| considerable talk about it, my sister remarked, “ Well, you may some
j day see a lady answering the description you give,” and remarked
I jestingly, “ I hope you will see her very soon, for I am tired of keeping
house for you and mother too.” I thought there might be some truth in
| the first remark, and think the latter was all truth, though she spoke it
I j estingly. A few months rolled by, and one day a gentleman who lived some
sixty miles distant, and who was acquainted with my parents, and
slightly acquainted with myself and sister, called to make us a visit and
presented my sister with his daughter’s photograph. On the following
j day she showed me the photograph, and I at once remarked that it was
a true picture of my ghost, if it was a ghost. “Yes,” she answered,
“ this picture answers to the description you gave.’’ I did not know
that the gentleman referred to had a child living, but I made it my
| business to make the acquaintance of the young lady, and let it suffice
to say that in a few months we were married. I am a man that never
i believed in witches, ghosts, or hobgoblins of any kind, but what I saw
1 I cannot deny.
66
THE SP XEXTUALIST.
AuGttsT 10, 1877.
WHY IS SO LITTLE HEARD OF MESMERISM ?
BY CAPTAIN JAMES.
It lias often been asked, v If there be really any truth in
mesmerism, how is it that we hear so little of it in the pre¬
sent day ?” Several reasons may be given to account for the
apparent falling off in the practice of mesmerism, or as
some people prefer to call it animal magnetism.
In former days the principal opposition to mesmerism
arose from its claims to the production of certain phenomena
which opponents declared to be far too startling for belief,
and these were the wonders of clairvoyance in all its
varieties, viz.: retrovision, prevision and introvision.
At the present day, however, thanks to the proofs of the
reality of clairvoyance given by Miss Lottie Fowler and
other modern media, that gift is now almost universally
accepted as an undeniable truth by all those who have
honestly taken the trouble—without preconception or pre¬
judice—to investigate the claims of this truly wonderful
endowment, and many rabid anti-Spiritualists, while de¬
claring that Spiritualism “ is the last thing they will give
in to,” accept clairvoyance as an established truth.”
More than thirty years ago, before Spiritualism with all
its wonderful phenomena had been heard of in this country,
and mesmerism had no rival in its claims to our interest
and attention, it was widely practised, and the columns of
the Zoist, the Critic, and the Medical Times were full of
remarkable cures effected by its means, and most of the
cases recorded were reported by members of the medical
profession practising in London, or in the principal provincial
towns.
The various interesting phenomena also observed during
the mesmeric treatment, such as clairvoyance, sympathy of
some of the senses, and the excitement of the different
phrenological organs, created general interest and curiosity;
in short, it was a novelty, and to a certain extent became the
fashionable topic of conversation.
Are we then to suppose that the human constitution has
changed since those days, that severe operations can no
longer be performed without pain during the mesmeric sleep,
and that palsy, rheumatism, epilepsy, and a host of other
diseases can no longer be cured or alleviated by the same
means ? Surely this cannot be the reason for the apparent
decadence of mesmerism. There are still many successful
practitioners _who produce precisely the same good effects on
their patients as their predecessors obtained, whether we
call these practitioners mesmerisers or “ healing mediums,”
which probably may be fairly considered as interchangeable
terms.
At the period before mentioned, many capital operations
were successfully performed on patients during the mesmeric
sleep, both in England and France, and these cases drew
general attention to the subject, the only drawback to the
value of its pretensions being the comparatively small
number of patients who could be rendered absolutely in¬
sensible to pain. Then came the discovery of ether and
chloroform as anaesthetics, which could be applied to any
individual, the only objection to those agents being, that
occasionally the patient died during the operation, a mishap
which never occurred in a mesmeric case. Moreover, it
ought not to be lost sight of, that the majority of the mem¬
bers of the medical profession still treat with contempt, if
not with the- active hostility of former days, the claims of
mesmerism as a curative agent, and it is well known that
their influence is very extensive. In many a country parish
the doctor is considered to be an authority on all scientific
subjects—whether he may have studied them or not—and he
is looked up to by many a confiding patient as if he were a
small parochial pope, whose opinion must be final as to the
value of mesmerism, or in fact of any new or old discovery
that may promise relief to human suffering.
Perhaps there .is no quality on which the average Briton
prides himself so much as what he calls his common sense,
which remarkable endowment—provided he be treated secun¬
dum artem—occasionally leads him to prefer the prospect of
death itself rather than to owe his recovery to some un¬
orthodox remedy, which he has been dogmatically assured
is nothing but quackery and humbug. It is also to be ob¬
served that there are still many liberal-minded medical
practitioners who have not the slightest objection to mes¬
merism, who would in fact be willing to employ any means
that held out the least promise of benefiting their patients,
but who are deterred from having their names mixed up
with the subject, from the consideration that it might create
a prejudice against them on the part of their professional
brethren, and in the minds of many of their patients, and
with consequently a possible loss of practice. That this is
no idle fear or fancy is evident if we refer back to the
history of mesmerism more than thirty years ago, when Dr.
Elliotson himself, with all his wonderful talent for diagnosis,
(and I well remember hearing another physician, immediately
after a consultation with him, exclaim, “The accuracy of
that man’s diagnosis is something marvellous,”) yet he, in
spite of all his advantages, is well known to have lost half
his practice, because—he dared to be honest.
One of the leading medical journals of that day actually
uttered as a threat “ that any medical man practising mes¬
merism deserved to lose all his patients ! ”
The last, but perhaps the most probable reason, explana¬
tory of the apparent decadence of mesmerism as a curative
agent, is the trouble, anxiety and fatigue entailed on those
who would gratuitously devote their time to its practice, for
in truth mesmerism may be shortly described as the action
of one human being parting with a portion of his own health
and strength in order to benefit another.
He who regularly undertakes the treatment of disease by
mesmerism, must sometimes be prepared to give up his days
and nights to particular critical cases, with occasional tem¬
porary injury to his own health from mere fatigue and want
of sleep.
Many years ago a friend of mine, who was a most expe¬
rienced and skilful mesmeriser, and who is now a frequent
contributor to the pages of the Spiritualist, at the request of
two London physicians undertook the case of a lady who was
in a most dangerous state. The mesmeriser attended day
and night for many weeks, during which time his patient was
kept almost constantly asleep, and he ultimately had the
enviable privilege of restoring the sufferer to perfect health.
I am convinced that were all the details of this very remark¬
able case to be published, watched as all its phases were by
two physicians, one of whom was perhaps the first physio¬
logist of the day, they would form a most valuable contri¬
bution to medical science. It is evident that in such a case
as this few people could be found able to devote the time
necessary for such a lengthened treatment, and still fewer who
could have borne the fatigue.
This is the grand difficulty in the way of the practice of
mesmerism; the practitioner cannot treat a case by merely
observing the symptoms, writing a short prescription to be
made up by some one else, and then proceed to treat several
other patients in the same manner, but he must confine him¬
self to a few cases only, according to his health and strength,
and the time he can spare.
These reasons, particularly the last, appear to me to suffi¬
ciently account for mesmerism not being more extensively
practised in the present day. It is no longer a novelty, and
it is difficult to get people to devote their time and strength
to its practice; but in answer to those who triumphantly
assert that because mesmerism now is comparatively little
heard of, therefore there can be no real efficacy in the treat¬
ment, I can confidently promise that if they would only
devote one half the time they waste in doing nothing, to the
treatment of even one case a day, they would have reason to
acknowledge at the end of the year that at least that portion
of their time had been well spent.
Tottenham,
M. Gustave de Veh and Mrs. de Yeh are at Interlaken.
The Madrid Criterio points out that more than fifty journals now
exist devoted to the Spiritual movement.
Thomas L. Hakuis is in California, endeavouring to establish a
branch community there similar to the one that he controls in the East.
Thk Boston Herald s&ys that in Chicago and its suburbs there are
more than one thousand public and private mediums fully developed in
one or more distinct phases.
Belgium, though a Catholic country, has five journals devoted to
Spiritualism—De Rots, Le Messager, Le Moniteur, Le Chercheur, aud
Le Galileen,
August 10, 1877.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
67
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP. ; ||i
BT BARON DIRCKINOK-HOLMFELI). : ]'(]'
I have been oppressed by an important law-suit, by the |; I
heat, and by bodily exertion, and my nervous power has In
thus been lowered, and I have been attacked by bronchial m
weakness and bad action of the heart and other organs. I m
however felt wonderfully relieved when, after a lecture at the m
Doughty Hall, on Sunday night last, Dr. Monck invited |l
sufferers to come to him upon the platform. I did so, and to I j.
this day I feel the comforting results of his healing powers, j j
I went yesterday to see him; he passed into the trance jji
state, and I had the treat of nearly one hour’s intimate com- j j
munication with his controlling spirit, Samuel Wheeler, who j |
gave me the results of Dr. Scott’s thorough examination of j j
my whole physical organisation. His favorable statements j |
encouraged my hope that I for a comparatively long time j |
shall be able to serve my friends in Spiritualism, and | |
humanity at large. j
As I am about to return to my home after having gained my I
troublesome law-suit (I dare say by spiritual influence), I 1
wish before leaving this country to give a hearty farewell to j j
my friepds and all honest promoters of the Spiritual cause.
It would take up much time to tell you all that was in- | j
struefive in Samuel Wheeler’s communications. I will merely j |
add that neither Dr. Monck, nor any medium whatsoever, j
could have spoken to me of their own accord as that spirit j
did. !j
20, Bloomsbury-street, London, August 4th, 1877. j j
One or two choir flirts will do more towards making a revival a m
failure than ten regular spear-tailed devils. Mr. Moody does not say i j j
this, but he thinks it.—-Religio-Philosophical Journal, j j
- At the annual distribution of prizes, held at the Royal Academy of j( j
Music, on Saturday, the 21st July, a silver medal was awarded to j(|
Mr. Charlton T. Speer, son of Dr. S. T. Speer, for great proficiency | !
upon the pianoforte. j j I
The Mistake of a Somnambulist.—The Pottstown (Pa.) Ledger j j
tells this story: “ A gentleman residing in York-street, in this borough, i j |
who is a somnambulist, arose from his bed a night or two ago and i j j
commenced walking about. His wife also arose, and attempted to get j )j
him back to bed again. But mistaking her for a burglar, he com- {(S
menced beating and ill-treating her at a fearful rate, and finally got one j j j
of her thumbs in his mouth, into which he inserted his teeth, which !) |
penetrated the bone. On discovering what he had done, the somnam- u
bulist was not only very much astonished, but was affected to tears on j j
learning how he had treated his spouse, for whom he entertains the ! j
warmest affection.” |j
Spirits not Infallible.—“I could not, as an honest observer, put )
aside constantly accumulating evidence of facts; my experience teaches ! \
me, however, that Spiritualism is too great a reality to be trifled with, | j
and it may be of too exciting and all-engrossing a character for the |)
consideration of persons of weak or nervous temperaments. I am !(
sure that spirits may become our companions and teachers, but I do j
not believe that they are infallible guides. They may mean well, yet W
err in judgment. They may, like the savants of the present day, think
that they have more knowledge than is borne out by the results ; they S)
are therefore not to be followed in a spirit of blind confidence, and \\
never by a surrender of our own independence.”—Benjamin Coleman n
on Spiritualism in 1862. j)
Organisation.—Dr. Gr. W. Carpender writes:—“We all like to be j j
well thought of, but to secure the world’s good opinion, we must make |)
our religious opinions respected, and there is only one way, which is by R
making them a power. England, Ireland, and Scotland, a small fraction j j
of earth, as two small islands, would be but little thought of, but as a R
well organised nationality they became the best of workers, and now j
wield an influence over the world second to none. Her subjects embrace j j
one full third of the earth’s people. Nature in producing or manifest- j)
ing life, uses organisation in all instances ; compounds life with life, i (
with the object of attaining higher manifestations, call the process evolu- j V
tion, force, or what else we may, the fact is patent to all. Why not j)
strive to imitate nature for higher and nobler work ? Concentrate our j |
powers, show our forces, demand the respect which is our due, and \)
thereby protect ourselves.”—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
Mr. Robert Dale Owen’s Widow.—The late Mr. Robert Dale j
Owen married his second wife, Miss Lottie Walton Kellogg, at j)
Caldwell, N.Y., June 23rd, 1876, one year and one day before his ||
death. Mrs. Owen is a daughter of the late Martin A. Kellogg, of ])
Hartford, Conn., and a granddaughter of the Rev. Bela Kellogg, for R
many years a leading Congregational minister in Connecticut. She is |
a cultivated artist, and has travelled and studied abroad many years, j)
About three years ago Mr. Owen dedicated his autobiography to her, R
speaking of her as “ a dear friend at whose pleasant home on Lake j \
George part of these pages were written.” Her home at which Mr. j
Owen died, was built some years ago, and is situated at “Peerless i(
Point,” a romantic headland on the eastern shore of the lake. Mr. j
Owen had been confined to his bed less than a week before his death. R
A large part of his property, which is considerable, is left by will to j
his widow,—Religio-Philosophical Journal, !|
INVESTIGATORS’ SEANCES.
The last of the series of seances at the rooms of the
National Association of Spiritualists, took place on the 27th
ult., Mr. C. E. Williams being the medium. The manifesta*
tions were at first rather weak, but after the duration of
about half-an-hour, the voice of il Peter ” was heard ; lights
were seen floating in various parts of the room ; the bell on
the table was lifted to a height far above the medium’s head,
and the musical box wound up, and set going by a force pro¬
ceeding from a great distance from the medium, and
entirely out of his reach, even if his hands had been free. By
accident or carelessness, some person at the other end of the
table to that where I sat disjoined hands with his neighbour,
and a tumbler glass was smashed into small fragments by a
force also entirely external to the medium. A cabinet
seance was then held with slight results. The voice of
“ Peter ” was heard in a whisper. There were present more
than the usual number of stranger inquirers, at this seance.
This was the ninth of a series of excellent seances given by
Mr. Williams, who for uniformity and regularity of
phenomena, as well as for frank sincerity and patience with
sceptics, has kept well to his old reputation.
C. Cakter Blake, the Seance Committee.
The Rooms and Library of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists will be closed from August 20th to September 3rd.
The works of the Baroness von Vay, Studien uber die Geisterwelt, and
Geist, Kraft, Staff, are obtainable at the Spiritualist branch office.
The sittings of the Experimental Research Committee of the National
Association of Spiritualists are adjourned till Friday, September 14th.
The reception to the Baron and Baroness von Vay by the National
Association of Spiritualists takes place to-night, at 38, Great Russell-
street, London, and a good attendance is expected.
On Sunday next, August 12th, Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance
address in the Spiritualists’ Hall, 164, Trongate, Glasgow; service to
commence at 6.30 p.m. Mr. Morse will deliver another trance address
at the same place on Monday evening, August 13th, to commence
at 7.30.
Some of the committees of the National Association of Spiritualists
are too small; they are not large enough to give security against public
business falling under the control of cliques, especially when only two
or three of the members are regular attendants and form a quorum. No
committee should consist of less than, say, ten persons, unless all its
members are noted for business capacity and for never originating
unpleasantness and contention.
A Heathen Prayer.—The Calcutta organ of one of the Hindoo
religions thus puts up its prayer in reference to the war in Turkey:—■
“ The battle cry has been heard, O God! and hostile nations have
already confronted each other, and begun the fierce work of destruction
and bloodshed. Who will arrest the evil ? Who can ? Almighty God,
Thou alone canst humble nations to the dust, and dissuade them from
bloody deeds. We humbly look up to Thee and pray that hostilities
may cease, and that peace may prevail once more in Europe.”
Ejusdem Generis.—The minds of legal authorities were sorely exer¬
cised some time ago by the signification of the above words. It is,
however, not so easy to draw a legal enactment. The following amend¬
ment, says The Pall Mall Gazette, was proposed on the 22nd of May,
1865, by an eminent Queen’s counsel, since deceased:—“Dogs trespassing
on enclosed land.—Every dog found trespassing on enclosed land unac¬
companied by the registered owner of such dog, or other person, who
shall, on being asked, give his true name and address, may be then and
there destroyed by such occupier or by his order.” This definition from
the Darlington Improvement Act (1872) is the result of the combined
efforts of a Parliamentary Committee, Parliamentary counsel, and
Parliamentary agent:—“ The term * new building’ means any building
pulled or burnt down to or within ten feet from the surface of the
adjoining ground.”
The British Association 1877 Meeting,—The 1877 meeting of the
British Association for the Advancement of Science begins at Plymouth
next Wednesday, under the presidency of Professor W. Allen Thomson,
F.R.S., of Glasgow. Professor Thomson made some incautious remarks
against Spiritualism at the Edinburgh meeting of the British Association,
but directly he ascertained that the phenomena were tolerably well
authenticated by responsible and intelligent people, he apologised in a
most thorough and gentlemanly manner. If some of his scientific com¬
peers were sufficiently upright to do the same, they would raise them¬
selves in the estimation of the many persons acquainted with the facts,
and who therefore understand the worthlessness- of most authoritative
utterances about Spiritualism from public platforms. A rumour reached
us some time ago that the Council of the British Association has taken
steps to prevent the consideration of the facts in natural science known
as psychological phenomena, at the Plymouth meeting. If so, it is to
be hoped the matter will be brought into daylight by questions at one of
the business meetings, and the full historical responsibility of the moral
cowardice be publicly fixed upon the present Council, and upon the
whole Association. .
68
THE SPlRlTtTALlST.
August 10, 1877,
IJcrtrg.
BYRON ON DREAMS.
<! Dreams do divide our being; they become
A portion of ourselves as of our time,
And look like heralds of eternity ;
They pass like spirits of the past—they speak
Like sibyls of the future; they have power—
The tyranny of pleasure, and of pain;
They make us what we were not, what they will,
And shake us with the vision that’s gone by,
The dread of vanished shadows. Are they so ?
Is not the past all shadows ? What are they ?
Creations of the mind ? The mind can make
Substance, and people planets of its own
With beings brighter than have been, and give
A breath in forms which can outlive all flesh.
I would recall a vision which I dreamed,
Perchance in sleep—for in itself a thought, -
A slumbering thought, is capable of years,
And curdles a long life into one hour.”
CHILD’S FAITH.
All beautiful tales, I trust, are true.
But here is a grave in the moss,
And there is the sky. And the buds are blue,
And a butterfly blows across.
Yes, here is the grave and there is the sky:
To the one or the other we go,
And between them wavers the butterfly,
Like a soul that does not know.
Somewhere ? Nowhere ? Too-golden head,
And lips that I miss and miss,
You would tell me the secret of the dead—>
Could I find you with a kiss !
Come here, I say, little child of mine,
Come with your bloom and your breath.
(If he should believe in the life divine,
I will not believe in death!)
** Where is your brother ?”—I question low,
And wait for his wise reply.
Does he say—“ Down there in the grave ’*'? Ah, no ;
He says, with a laugh, “ In the sky!”
Mrs. S. M. B. Platt, in Scribner's Monthly.
Great freedom, isgiven to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametricaVy opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be keptby the writers.']
MORE MARVELS AT MALVERN.
Sir,—In the investigation of this matter of Spiritualism we want,
first of all, reliable facts. Hypotheses, theories, philosophy may wait.
As in physics, so in psychics, it seems to be of little use to speculate on
causes or modes, until we have collected our phenomena. Having had
some good opportunities for observation recently, I have thought it my
duty to put on record what I have observed for the benefit of other
inquirers in the science of life.
Willie Eglinton has been rapidly regaining his health at Aldwyn
Tower, Malvern, by the natural means of breathing a pure air, washing
in pure water, and living on a pure diet. These, with rest, exercise,
out-door life, and genial surroundings, are, as we all know, the condi¬
tions of physical health; and the spiritual rests upon the physical.
With youth and a good constitution the result is natural and infallible.
Nature never fails to do her work, if we allow her the needful conditions.
People get well rapidly at Malvern, because they find here some of the
most important of the conditions of cure.
And these conditions, our friends from the other side inform us, are
also favourable to their manifestations. All that I have described to
you, and all that I shall describe, have been under what seem to me
absolutely perfect test conditions ; but of that the reader can judge as I
proceed.
July 23rd, Mr. Eglinton, Mrs. Nichols, two other ladies of our family,
and myself, were in a small room, with the one window darkened, and
the one door locked. I carefully searched the medium (Mr. Eglinton)
to be sure that he had no masks, drapery, or apparatus of any kind.
He lay upon a sofa, and we formed a semicircle from his head to his
feet, within which was a small round table. On this table was laid a
large, heavy musical-box, which winds with a lever and ratchet-wheel.
Besides the outer wood cover, there is an inner glass lid, which com¬
pletely protects and isolates the works. At a distance of twelve feet, on
a book-shelf, was a mouth-organ. The five persons forming the semi¬
circle held hands.
A few moments after the gas was turned off, “ Joey ’’ spoke with his
sharp, distinct, peculiar voice, which is not in the least like that of the
medium, or of any person present, or the ventriloquial voice, with which
I am well acquainted. It has a complete individuality, and its pecu¬
liarities, and use of words, and certain lapses in speech, are quite
different from those of any person present. Joey is ceremoniously
polite. He addresses each person present, observing an orderly pre¬
cedence. The first salutations over, he suggested that the mouth of the
medium should be filled with water. This was done, Mr. Eglinton,
though apparently in a deep sleep, taking the water into his mouth.
The gas, lighted for this purpose, was turned down, and instantly the
mouth-organ, which had been on a distant book-shelf, was heard within
the enclosed space, sounding strong, full chords of three notes. I struck
a light, and the medium emptied his mouthful of water into an empty
glass. All hands had been held. By no possibility could the organ
have been brought or played upon by any one of the five persons
present.
When the light was extinguished, Joey said—“Well, Dr. Nichols, is
that a good test ?”
“ Yes, Joey,” said I; “ I think it is a perfect test.”
“ Yes,” said Joey; “ you noticed that I played full chords, so ”—
playing as before—“ so you couldn’t say that Willie played with his
nose, as he might have done, this way.’’ And Joey played a series of
single notes, evidently with one of his nostrils.
The next test was with the musical-box. Joey wound it up ; that is,
it was wound up and set going, and no one of us did it. The medium
was lying on the sofa, so near that every breath or the least movement
could be heard. To move the winding lever the outer cover must have
been raised, and a strong force exerted. Then Joey said—
“ Now, Dr. Nichols, place your hand upon the glass cover.”
I did so, thus securing the isolation of the works. While I thus held
the cover, so that no hand or instrument could reach the machinery, it
was made to stop, go on, play a few notes, answer questions by striking
one or three notes or chords. Miss M , sitting at my right, also
held down the inner, glass lid, and the instrument was made to stop or
move as she desired, by what Joey said were waves of a force under his
control, which checked the motion of the fly-wheel governing the
movement. Those who understand the mechanism of the larger kinds
of musical-boxes will see that there could be no better test of the action
of a preternatural force, controlled by some intelligence beyond the
volition or consciousness of the persons present. It was precisely like
holding your watch in your hand, and seeing it stop, go on, move one or
three seconds, &c., at command.
Then, at the request of Joey, we moved our chairs to the end of the
room, about eighteen feet from the couch on which lay the medium.
Curtains were dropped across the room four feet in front of him. A
small lamp was lighted, and the gas turned down. It was a soft, dim
light, but every object was clearly visible.
In a few moments a man came out of the central opening of the cur¬
tains. He was about six feet high, with a thick, long dark beard, and par¬
tially bald head. He was robed in white drapery. He did not speak, but
bowed his head or shook it, to say “ Yes” or “No ” to questions asked.
His looks, though dimly seen, and, still more, his air and movements,
and the answers he gave convinced me that he was my brother, who died
a few years ago in America. He was much taller than Mr. Eglinton,
and quite different from him in every way, who also had never seen and
scarcely heard of him, and knew nothing of his personal appearance.
A female form next appeared, also that of an American relative of one
of the circle. The test here was in the delicate feminine face and figure,
and the graceful costume, which by no possibility could have been
counterfeited by the medium, whom I had carefully searched.
Then came Joey himself, in material form. He wore a close-fitting
white dress from head to feet, but also covered himself with diaphonous
drapery, so transparent that his whole figure was distinctly visible.
Joey is a little taller than the medium, and much more slender. His
legs;and thighs not nearly as large, and very lithe and sinewy. He was
no silent ghost, like the others. He talked volubly all the time, first
with one and then another. Mrs. Nichols wanted a piece of his' beau¬
tiful white drapery. “ It is of no use,” he said; “ it won’t stay.” But
he sat down on the floor and showed us how it was made. Moving both
hands rapidly, he seemed to gather white fog from the atmosphere, and
work it into a texture of delicate, transparent gauze, nearly a yard
wide. In a minute or two he made several yards, which we could see
growing as he formed it; and he threw it towards us, as a draper throws
silk or muslin as he unrolls it, until we all took hold of the shining web,
and felt it between our fingers. It was very thin, but very hard and
solid in its texture. Then it was quickly drawn away, gathered up, and
dissolved before our eyes.
Joey was talking all the time, and we could hear the medium breathing
hard on the sofa, and moving like one in a nightmare.
Then Joey got into a chair and sat on the back of it; sprang down
and, taking up the chair by one of the legs, flourished it in the air as if
it had been a wand, showing great muscular power in his fingers. He
took up the small round table by one of its claws, and waved it also
about in the air as I am sure neither I nor the medium—the only men
in the room—could have done. He did the same with the heavy
musical-box, first winding it up and setting it playing.
Finally, when Joey had disappeared, the medium came before the
curtain, with a little girl standing beside him. Then the parting saluta¬
tions to each person were made. In a few moments three raps were
heard—the signal to light the gas—and the medium woke from his
trance of nearly two hours.
The conversations with the materialised forms that have the power of
speech are very curious and, in themselves, very striking and perfect
tests. We have had Joey talking with us when the medium’s mouth
was full of liquid; when it was covered with gummed paper; when he
was at a considerable distance. We have the absolute certainty that he
is, in person, in mind, in voice, a distinct individuality, who can come
into a room when the door is locked, appear and disappear, and do many
things ordinarily impossible. If you will allow me, I will give in a
future paper an account of some other tests, and of the, perhaps, best
tests of all—the proofs given in the conversations of these materialising
spirits of their individual reality; and some clue, perhaps, to their
motives and characters.
I have related no fact that cannot be proved by the oaths of from two
to six intelligent and unimpeachable witnesses.
T, L* Nichols, M.D,
Malvern, July 29th, 1877,
August 16, 187?.
TfiE SPIRlfUALtSf.
MATERIALISATION OP SPIRIT HEADS.—NO. VII. (
Sir,—July 29th,,—No more mould-making since my last, only some |?
talk with John King about this master of “materialisation,’’ on which j
some little dawn of light seems really to be rising out of these H
phenomena, accompanied as they are by his declarations, as recorded in 1
my recent letter. I commend them (and what may yet follow) to the !
especial attention of my friends, Messrs. Stainton-Moses, W. H. Har- I
rison, C. Carter Blake, C. C. Massey—a tutti quanti of the philosophising j j
students of our phenomena-facts. The main point which they tend to j (
establish seems to be this, that the spirits about to “materialise” j{
gather out of the atmosphere, and out of the organisms of the medium j \
and audience, globular particles similar to those ultimate particles (of ! (
bioplasm, I suppose) of which our bodies are composed, and put them ! j
together, or solidify them into form; experiencing often great difficulty in | (
holding them together, there being a tendency to disaggregation and | (
scattering when the conditions are unfavourable or the power weak. I j
These ultimate particles of what we call r matter ” may be roughly com- j (
pared to the separate grains of sand, not in a block of sandstone, but in a i I
huge edifice, nay, a vast city (the body of a man), built up of such sand- i j
stone blocks. Whatever this “ matter ” may be, John King makes out the i <
matter temporarily existing in aggregated solidity in these materialised i <
spirits to be the same as that of which our bodies (themselves tern- j j
porary too, though much longer in duration) are also built up; and j (
he makes a portion of its constituent particles to be actually derived and j i
withdrawn from human organisms. I have since addressed to him | j
some interrogations, such as: “ When you have thus got the requisite | j
atomic materials, how do you combine and consolidate them into ! i
one form, one face or head, rather than into another ? Is it by j j
an act of will, by will-power ? Or do you deposit them on the i i
outside surface of a spirit form, of the ‘spiritual body’ St. Paul |j
speaks of; or do you incorporate them with it?” He said: “Call j ]
it will-power, if you please, and I may as well adopt that form j <
because will-power enters largely into it. But I cannot malte you fully i1
understand it. Without those particles or atoms you could not see the ] ]
spirit, nor feel it, nor hear it. It might touch you, and you would not j i
know it. The spirit is there with them, and they are incorporated j1
together. But they (the atomic particles, evidently') always tend to j
fall away and disperse. They hold together by a certain attraction or j
gravity (sic), but unless the power is good they will fall away. A nose »|
will fall away, or one part or one side of a face, and we cannot help it
if the power is not good. You must often have observed that?'—“ Yes,
often.”—“ If they are to speak, organs for that purpose must be formed j
for them, otherwise you could not hear them, or could not hear more than j
a slight whispering or hissing sound" (as we have, indeed, often heard), j
“and when they are formed out of the medium's body, you will hear j
something reminding you of the medium's voice, as you often hear in
mine." Yes, and on the one occasion (the only one), when my mother
spoke several connected sentences, close to my ear, her face having been
visible there the moment before, I could catch distinct intonations of the
medium’s voice in her utterances.” “ When we have formed and solidi¬
fied a face, it is not so much incorporated into that of the spirit as that the
spirit gets into and incorporates itself with it. If the spirit cannot do
so, there is no life nor expression in it, and it then looks like a mask
without any life in it. And when it cannot stay therefor more than a
moment, you at once see the difference." (This corresponds perfectly to
what we have often observed, and what has been recorded in former
letters.) “ When the weather is bad, we have to gather all the material
out of the medium, and if he is not then in favourable condition, we cannot
do anything. It is very important that he should be not only
well in health, and free from physical suffering, but in a tranquil,
contented, and comfortable state of mind." He added another
curious statement, viz., that when the heads were dipped into the
paraffin they were solidified as hard as stone! This seems to explain |
their thus dipping with their eyes open, their indifference to any degree
of heat, and the easy extrication of the hair from the paraffin, an opera¬
tion which experiment (on a doll’s head of real hair) will soon show you j
to be impossible with human hair. The Count once tried the experi¬
ment of dipping, not his head or face, for that would have asphyxiated
him, but his chin into the liquid paraffin. The experiment cost him
dear. It cost him three or four hours of work and trouble before he
could get the lower ends of his whiskers and moustaches free and clean
from the sticking grease of the paraffin, and a day before he was all
right again. No wonder (or rather much less wonder) if, when this
dipping into almost boiling hot paraffin takes place the materialised
head has been solidified into something as hard as a stone ! solidified,
it seems, by “will-power,’’ and solidified, apparently, somewhat as John
King’s “lamp ” or “stone” gets solidified; for it is certain that we have
often seen that “stone” vary greatly in size before our eyes, and we j
have seen it undergo successive dippings for moulds at different sizes at
the same seance, shining clear and bright all the time by its own |
luminosity, yet producing moulds of different forms as well as of different
sizes—by will-power, as he says. See the photographs of it.
Once when we thus saw change of shape as well as of size in his
“lamp,” or luminous stone, I said to John King that since he could thus
apparently give it by his will such form as he pleased, I wished he would
show it to us in that of a cross, of which the sign had been so often • j
made upon us. His reply was simply that he certainly could not give j
it a better form than that of the cross. A few days afterwards he told
us that he would show it to us in various forms—a cross, a flower, &c. j
He has never yet actually done so to us, but I see in your paper of
July 27 th that he has shown it through his other favoured medium
Williams (to Mr. Tomlinson), as a brightly luminous cross.
In reference to this making of moulds for faces and busts, I have
found a strange indisposition to allowing us to send over to you repro- ]
ductions of the busts, and even, to some extent, of photographs to be
reproduced and sold, in order to meet the many calls for them (as I
many are also addressed to me).. And he has said to me that “ they 1
have Williams over there—why don't they work and try and get them for
themselves—that would be still more satisfactory for them." Well,
indeed, why don’t you ? I have before prompted you to do so. Possibly
that may be the reason (or one of their reasons), for this strange dis¬
couragement to us against our sending copies of ours to London to
be reproduced and sold. There must be no selling at profit, even if you
are allowed to reproduce and sell at all. I cannot readily doubt but
that you can do quite as well over there in this line, with your medium
Williams, as we here through Firman.
A few days ago I interrogated John King about the form, aspect, and
visage in which these high and pure spirits, we were now accustomed to
see, existed and showed in their present phases or spheres of being.
“ You tell us,” I said, “ that we see them by your light as they appear
in the spirit life, and as we shall see them when we get there. Tell me
whether those features and faces in which we thus see them, and are
hereaftertoseethem,andinwhich they form their moulds, are those which
they wore in the earth-life. Or do their features of the earth-life constitute
a mere basis of form which becomes beautiful and glorified so as to be
scarcely recognisable to our eyes, accustomed to the earthlier aspects of
the mortal flesh.” (I must say that in my mother, while I see a certain
general resemblance of shape of face, what I chiefly recognise is the
expression—and her particular expression—of intense motherly love,
with much accordant action, tender caress and benediction, and a certain
something which I feel more surely than I can either see or express
while I have found it confirmed by what she has written through the
mediums.) I went on to say, expressing it at that moment better than
I now do; ” I can imagine, and I have a notion, that they have now
faces and forms quite different from those which hereditary trans¬
missions, and cognate resemblances, or other accidents, gave them in
the earth-life. That their now higher spiritual development, and new
spiritual beauty and elevation, may act as a new in-forming influence
and cause and force to mould external form into an accordant and
correspondent beauty. I do not advance this as a belief or as a theory
of mine, you so often object to my theories upon] matters of which I
know nothing, and about which I inquire. I only say that it seems to
me that perhaps it may be so.” (I had in mind the marvellous beauty
I had seen in these busts, not alone of the girl-angel faces of “ Angela ”
and “ Alexandine,’’ but especially of the male, youthful, seraphic
beauty of the head of “ Grlaucus,” who was an old man in Rome more
than eighteen centuries ago, his old age being still symbolised in his
white hair, surmounting a face representing the young mature beauty of
the immortal life). To this John King answered simply, “ You have got it
exactly and you have expressed it very well." You and your readers will
think as you please of all this. My present work and duty are simply
to record facts for others to draw their own conclusions from.
August 4,th.—We have had nothing more in the moulding business
since the successful bust of Alexandrine. We expect another next week.
But it seems we are also to have some photographs. John King directs
the Count to have a photographic apparatus ready for him to take
advantage of a good opportunity of power and conditions. Whether the
photographs will be given under the sunlight, or by a special light
made by himself, or taken in the dark, we do not know. He has said
they can be taken in the dark and that it has been done in London by
Mr. Slater, he (J. K.) helping. This we had read of, or of the same
thing in America. He said that if there were a balcony to the apart¬
ment he would go out upon it and give it there. 1 It would astonish the
people in the street," he added, 11 to see us then jump off the balcony." “We
could not follow you in that,” I said, “the landing would be unpleasant.”
“ / should not jump downwards, I should go up." The Count has a small
apparatus, but is going to get a better one.
First face moulds, and then busts, and then photographs, to be taken
by ourselves in full sunlight, or else produced for us in the black dark
(and I think he means that), I wonder what marvellous phenomena will
be given next ? I can only say that he has said that both we and the
world would be astonished.
I asked John King'to-day if he would not give this same manifesta¬
tion of moulds of spirit heads in England, through his other medium
there, Williams, and inspire and stimulate other inquirers there to the
same work as we have carried out here ? He answered, in substance,
that it could, indeed, be done through Williams, but would be difficult;
for where was to be found a person or a circle who would work with such
persistent patience and perseverance, and harmony and liberality, as had
existed here through our dear friend (the Count) ? “ But,’’ I said, ff can¬
not some of our friends in London (and I named two or three) organise
a steady course of seances with Williams, and with you and with two or
three more thorough and reliable and harmonious friends; and then,
with patient persistence, and following the example of our success, work
out the same results ? Won’t you put them up to it, and.prompt them
to do it, as I have tried to do ?” He answered, rather strangely, I
will not say wildly, but positively—“ Well, among a million of Spirit¬
ualists in England and America and everywhere, you wont find another
one capable of all our dear f riend has done, and therefore deserving the
success of the same results?' This was his reply. But I do not take for
absolute gospel all that either he or any other spirit says. They all
speak from the standpoint of their own experience, knowledge, and
faculty, just as we all do in this life. I have certainly read of many
phenomena of materialisation elsewhere, through other mediums (I
prefer that form to a pedantic media) and other assisting spirits, which
seem to be stronger, in some respects, than the analogous one we have
got here with our two mediums, Firman in the flesh and John King
out of it. I hope our friends in England will not be discouraged from
trying, with untiring patience; and that they will attain to even better
results, which may then be recorded by better historiographers.
August bth.—In a few days you will receive a further supply of
photographs, though there is no authority for them to be reproduced
and sold. If that authority is given to anybody, they can only dis¬
tribute by selling them for naked cost, without a farthing of profit |
70
THE SPIHITtTALIST.
August 10, 1877.
the idea of which seems to be particularly repulsive to our uncommercial
invisible friends.
I do not relate minor incidents, but I will mention that to-day, for the
first time, we have the circumstance of John King (splendidly shown by
his light) asking for a chair and coming to seat himself at our table, and
there speaking, besides doing other acts of affectionate life. You have
had this in England, and for much longer duration of time; we have
not had it before. Besides the Count and myself, there were present a
lady and a child. He told us henceforward to have always a chair for
him, but at the other end of the table, near to his dear friend.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
MYRRH.
“ Et apertis thesauris suis obtulerunt ei munera * * * et myrrham.”
Sir,—Having had the misfortune to visit the Hebrides, and having
read the poetry on page 53 of The Spiritualist, I wish respectfully to
ask botanists in general, and Spiritualists in particular, whether
“ myrrh ” is to be found growing in Scotland ? C. Carter Blake. ,
THE FLYING- SAINT.
Sir,—Allow me to recommend Domenico Bernani’s life of S. Joseph
of Cupertinum (1822) and the very beautiful life by Pastrovicchi in
] 753; another by Agelli in the same year is less worthy of attention.
Turning to the Breviary, there is no direct mention of the levitation of
St. Joseph of Cupertinum in the fourth, fifth, and sixth lections, but
the twelfth chapter of the second book of Corinthians is selected as the
third lection. This incidentally introduces levitation. The Bollandist
reference is “ Y Septembris (xviii.), page 992.” C. Carter Blake,
A SPECULATION RELATING- TO THE HIGH ART OF ANCIENT GREECE.
Sir,—Many years ago, long before I knew anything of Spiritualism, I
used to wonder why people are surprised at the old G-reek sculptors produc¬
ing their unsurpassed masterpieces. It seemed to me then simple enough,
though, girl-like, I never expressed my crude thoughts. I had always
a feeling more than a definite idea, but it was a feeling that never left
me, that the originals of these wondrous works had been real gods and god¬
desses—that Apollo really appeared and was modelled by the great artist.
I had always also a vague feeling, which I never sufficiently understood
to express in words, that all modern sculpture must as a rule be based on
ancient Greek art, as no such opportunity is now given to mortals of
seeing a god, and that all modern sculptors can only model from the
finest human form. All these stupid imaginings, as I considered them to
be, never forsook me, although until recently they still seemed nonsense
to me. The knowledge of Spiritualism has, however, given a sensible
shape to my fancy. Is it impossible that the great Greek masters were
aided by visions of the materialised form of their gods, whom all suppose
now to have been distinguished but mortal heroes ? As “ this material
world is but a model in clay of the spiritual world,” so our spiritual
bodies are to be perfection in shape and form. The Greek models are
held to be perfection. As a rule is there such a thing as perfection in
this world ? And yet we feel that perfection is the only word that can
be applied to some in the splendid array of beauteous forms personating
the beings called Apollo, Venus, Minerva and Juno.
Has the human race so sorely degenerated; or is talent degenerated ?
All our finest modern sculpture is entirely based on Greek art; there is
nothing new, and nothing to show that we can ever do better than copy
from the antique models. All our modern beauty is derived from the
ancient. These are truisms. Last week I saw in the rooms of the
National Association of Spiritualists the photographs sent from Paris of
the paraffin moulds of spirit heads. The one of “Angela” represents
our idea of pure Greek art. As I looked at it, my old girlish instinctive
feehngs came back to me, and I seemed to find a clue to my wandering
thoughts. Perhaps the great Greek masters had been assisted by the
materialised spirit of one of their gods, by a spirit of some hero,
meaning to them as he came from the haze of antiquity a veritable god
to be worshipped. Is the idea still a crude one ? As an artist I feel
strongly on the subject, for real beauty seems dying out of art, for art
is as much injured by materialism as everything else.
I must add that though I had these erratic ideas concerning the reality
of Apollo and others, I did not fully realise their strength, for being
brought up in the orthodox school I was bound to believe, and thought
I did beheve, that every other religion was rubbish but ours, and that
it was heathen darkness to think otherwise of the Greek phalanx of heroic
names. It appears to me now, through the medium of Spiritualism, that
light is dawning on the subject. Is it so, or are my ideas still crude
and worthless ? Isabel de S.
Kensington. ■ ■ -
THE DIFFICULTIES OF INQUIRERS.
Sir,—Will you allow me to say that I consider the letter of the
Rev. W. Miall, which appeared in your issue of the 20th, one of the
most useful and important which I have read for a considerable length of
time. His experience is but the type of that of many an earnest investi¬
gator, and I think if more of these had the courage to come forward and
record their failures it would lead to an investigation as to their cause,
and perhaps to valuable hints and help from their more fortunate
brethren. Failures, as well as successes, would thus tend, slowly but
surely, towards a further elucidation of that spiritual truth for which
I trust we are all labouring. Mr. Miall speaks of himself as a two
years’ investigator; alas, I have been interested in the subject for more
than double or treble that time! and yet, owing to lack of oppor¬
tunities of testing the phenomena, and partly, perhaps, to a morbidly
sceptical turn of mind, strongly tinctured with Materialism, I cannot
free myself from those doubts which only oft-repeated personal ex¬
perience can have any chance of entirely removing. Spiritualism once
placed by personal experience beyond the troubled region of doubt,
would indeed be the pearl of great price before which all earthly
treasures sink into comparative insignificance, but in our search for
it we must make sure of every step we take, or our sparkling foun¬
tain will “ change into mocking sands as we draw near,” and our fine
gold become dim and turn to dross in our eager grasping hands. Two
decided steps in the right direction have been recently taken, first, the
suggestion respecting the gradual relinquishment of the doubt-producing
cabinet, and secondly, the endeavour to sift the true from the false in
accredited ghost stories, those pillars upon which Spiritualism in all
ages has, to a large extent, rested. I sincerely trust that ere long the
former may have become an accomplished fact, and the latter, by its
unflinching exposure of inaccuracies in the narrators, lead to a higher
standard of truth, and a more strict regard to details of place, date, and
circumstance, where these in any way affect the credit of the narrative.
I therefore trust that the letter of Mr. Miall will have the effect of in¬
ducing those who have already emerged into the light, to lend a helping
hand by facilitating the means of acquiring personal experience, to those
who are endeavouring perchance with dim eye and faltering step to climb
out of darkness and doubt into spiritual light and happiness.
Eliza Boucher.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
;i Sir,—A general meeting will be held at the “Camden Hotel,” 12
Camden-street, on Wednesday, 15th inst., at 8 p.m. All friends are
invited. ' S. Pride, Sec,
THE HEALING POWER OF MESMERISM.
Mr. E. H. Yalter, a practical mesmerist, residing in Birmingham,
enclosed the following printed certificates in a letter to us, without any
request for their publication ; but we print them, because the healing
power of mesmerism cannot be too widely known or exercised:—
This is to certify that for more than three years I had been a great
sufferer from rheumatics. For ten months’ time I was a patient at the
General Hospital, at which institution the medical men did all they
could for me, but without succeeding in curing me. It was with great
pain and difficulty that I could raise one hand at a time to my neck,
and that I could not even brush my hair or button my collar on. Mr.
E. H. Yalter, to whom I had told the circumstances, said he thought he
could relieve me, and I consented to be placed by him under the
“Mesmeric” influence. I am happy to state that he quite cured me,
and that the acute pains from which I was suffering from in the back,
shoulders, and arms were entirely removed, and that I am now able to
raise my hands high up above my head without the least pain or
inconvenience, which I had not been able to do for more than three
years.
I am happy to state that I can now follow my business.
Up to the time when I placed myself under the charge of Mr. Yalter,
I did not believe in mesmerism, but I am thankful to be able to give
my testimony in favour of its truly wonderful and marvellous powers.
(Signed) John Fox.
65, Grant-street, Birmingham, 1873.
Rather more than three years ago I had an attack of paralysis in the
left arm, extending from the shoulder to the hand, leaving the arm bent
upwards, tbe fingers of the hand tightly closed, and the thumb rigidly
fastened down over the first finger. I had no power whatever to move
or open the thumb. By using great exertion I could only just lift the
arm about two inches. I had medical advice, tried the voltaic battery,
magnetism, and also Pulvermacher’s chain bands, but derived no
benefit. The arm still remained fixed. I then resolved to try Mr. E.
H. Yalter’s mesmeric treatment, and after a short time the following
are the results :—I can now raise the arm level with the shoulder, also
place the arm behind my back, and let it hang down by my side. The
use has also returned to the thumb, which I can now move about freely,
and even lay hold of and pick up articles. The arm has also become
supple, and can be bent backwards and forwards. The grip of the fingers
has also considerably relaxed. Not only has the arm become very
strong, but also my physical strength has much improved. I also have
to state that I can now raise and bend the left knee, which I was
unable to do previously.
I am happy to certify the truth of the above facts, resulting from Mr.
E. H. Yalter’s mesmeric treatment, for the benefit of others who may
be sufferers from diseases. (Signed) G. T. Harris.
2, Homer-street, Mosely-road, Birmingham, Feb. 20th, 1875.
Having been troubled with rheumatics in the right arm and shoulder
for some years, but especially for the last twelve months, I was deter¬
mined to try Mr. E. Yalter’s mesmeric treatment, and am happy to
state I have derived great benefit from it. Previous to trying his
mesmeric treatment, I was not able to hold any article between my arm
and body, without much pain, but which I can do now with ease and
comfort. I can also now raise the arm above my head, and place it
behind my back, which I could not do before.
In order to test the treatment to the utmost, I have not worn any
additional clothing, but have been going out and been exposed to the
cold and damp, without any return of this painful complaint.
(Signed) Samuel Smith.
56, Lower Hurst-street, Birmingham, September 20th, 1875.
This is to certify that I had been suffering for some weeks from
intense neuralgic pains in the head, over the left eye. The pains in the
head used to commence at about nine o’clock in the morning, and
August 10, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
71
lasted with great violence for several hours daily, generally about six j (j
hours. I was attended by two medical men, and todk their medicines, u|
but they both failed to relieve me. I was unable to follow my employ- j (j
ment. Mr. E. H. Valter undertook my case, and I ain happy to state m
that by his mesmeric treatment the pains were removed, and I am now j / i
cured. (Signed) William Gummery. m
224, Bristel-street, Birmingham, October 26th, 1874. !>i
MEDIUMS. | |
Mediums have often been compared to a musical instru- | j
ment, on ■whom the angels play, giviug expression one j j
minute to beautiful poetry, then to a discourse on some | |
social subject, then perhaps giving a description of j j
scenes in the spirit-world. If there were no musicians, j j
there would be no musical instruments, and if no spirits, | j
there would be no mediums. One follows naturally from j |
the existence of the other; one is an outgrowth of the j |
other, and the two are inseparably blended in the produc- | j
tion of any given result. A French philosopher claims j j
that there is in each organisation a sonorous fluid, which : j
properly played upon tends to harmonise the various parts, | j
and the instances of diseases cured by the sweet sounds of j j
various instruments, are truly remarkable ; but the potency j j
of music in such cases depends to a great extent on the |
existence of this sonorous fluid in the system—whether | |
scanty or abundant. With mediums there must be a like I I
quality, denominated by some spirits “nerve aura,” j j
through the instrumentality of which they illuminate the | j
brain of the medium, or place the same “ in tune ” so that j j
a high order of intelligence can play upon it, and give ex- | i
pression to its own thoughts. . j
Mediums are sometimes attuned for a certain class of j
manifestations. They are in harmony with a certain order |
of influences, and when a person or spirit outside of that j
circle or order approaches them, the mediums feel uneasy, j
are absolutely repelled, and often to the casual observer |
seem to be unaccountably irritated. This accounts for j
those strange idiosyncrasies of different mediums—their I
aversion to some persons, and their attraction to others. |
Take, for example, the sea-shell—what makes it sing? |
A philosopher who has investigated the subject well, says |
in the Boston Watchman, “that when the sea-shell is held |
up to the ear, there is a peculiar vibratory noise which the j
children assure each other is the roar of the sea, however |
distant they may be from it. The peculiar sound is a j
phenomenon that has puzzled scholars for a long time. I
The experiment is easily made by simply pressing a spiral j
shell over the cerebra of either ear; the sound is much like j
that of a far-off cataract. What causes it? Every muscle in |
the body is always in a state of tension. Some muscles |
are more on the stretch than others, particularly those of j
the fingers. It is conceded that the vibration of the fibres
in the fingers being communicated to the shell, the latter j
propagates and intensifies them as the hollow body of a j
violin does the vibrations of its strings, and thus the |
acoustic nerve receives the sonorous expressions. Muscles
of the leg below the knee are said to vibrate in the same
way, and if conducted to the ear produce the same result.”
There is an analogy between the manifestations as given
through the instrumentality of the sea-shell and spirit
control. Spirits do not utter a sound when controlling a j
medium; they do not express a thought and force the j
medium to utter it; they do not rhyme off their sweet |
verses in the ear of the medium to be repeated; we say j
emphatically that mediumship has no such basis on which j
to rest. The thoughts of the spirit are imparted to the |
medium in a manner analogous to the vibrations imparted |
to the sea-shell or to a musical instrument, and as the j
latter produces a musical sound, the former produces flashes j
of poetry or gems of wisdom for the consideration of j
mortals. In the highest inspiration, the spirit and medium j
are for a time one. • . . |
There is a great variety in mediumship—trance, in- |
spirational, psychometric, and physical, with various sub- j
divisions. No two blades of grass, out of the infinite j
number that exist, are exactly alike, and we need not expect |
to find two mediums out of the few hundreds before the I
public, who are alike in any two particulars. They differ j
in their essential characteristics, and in consequence of j|
this the spirit-world is enabled to present to us a greater ''
variety of thought and information than otherwise would
be possible.
Mediums may be regarded as the bridge between the two
worlds—the golden span that unites the two shores, and as
such they should be tenderly guarded and cared for. They
cannot endure discord or antagonism, for they are placed
in harmony with the higher intelligences, hence adverse
criticism, temporal misfortunes, personal and family trou¬
bles, sweep against their finely attuned organism, and they
suffer—suffer untold pains and anguish. Mozart’s ears
were so delicately organised that a serious discord in music
would make him sick. He was a musical medium. What
was true of him, is true to a certain extent in every phase
of mediumship, and will apply to all delicately organised
and refined mediums living. They should have harmonious
surroundings—homes free from too great cares and respon¬
sibilities, and where the voices of loved ones from both
shores are in harmony with their own natures.
Mediums should be protected in the exercise of their
heaven-born gifts; they should be liberally compensated
for their services, and in all cases every necessary want of
their nature should be supplied. As well expect the bud
to bloom and present to the world its rainbow-tinted hues,
while frosts are biting it, insects stinging it, and worms
preying upon it, as expect mediums to give angelic mes¬
sages while troubles and cares weigh them down. Medium-
ship is a precious boon; it is the diamond of human nature,
the scintillations of which are messages from our loved
ones in the summer-land, and as such it should be pro-
| tected, encouraged, and liberally compensated.—Religio-
I Philosophical Journal.
I It is the mind that makes us rich and happy in what condition soever
we are ; and money signifies no more to it than it does to the gods.—
j Seneca.
| A private society of Spiritualists at Vienna has addressed an invita-
j tion to Dr. Slade to hold a series of seances in the Austrian capital this
j autumn.
! Crazed by the Revival.—Revival excitement has been too much for
I the brain of Luther Newton, a middle-aged and careful farmer, and
leader in the religious awakenings at Phillipston this spring. Among
| other insane freaks, he pinned his father to the ground till the old
gentleman forgave his enemies; commanded an express train to stand
still, being, he said, “snatched off the track by the Lord,” just as the
irreligious engine was about to crush him ; and anointed his wife from
head to foot with butter as a religious duty.—Springfield Republican.
Facts versus Materialism. — Give materialistic sceptics some
| tangible evidence, bring it home to the evidence of their senses, let
I them feel assured that, contrary to their reasoning, it is a fact in the
j present day, that a hand belonging to mortal can present itself as in
| the days of Belshazzar, and write a sentence visible to all, and you at
once tear away the film which has previously precluded them from
seeing the truth, and you force an acknowledgment that, after all, the
I Bible may be a reliable history, and not the fiction which they have
been accustomed to think it is,—Benjamin Coleman on “ Spiritualism
| in 1862 ”
| Other Worlds than Ours. — When the Marianna Islands were
discovered, it was found that the inhabitants had supposed that their
islands were the only land, and they the only people in the world.
Notwithstanding the disbelief of materialists and material scientists,
| there lie realms beyond the domain of physical science almost infinitely
larger than that portion of our planet unknown to the Marianna Islanders,
| abounding with objects of intensest interest, and whose existence can
| be demonstrated as positively as that of the trilobite of palosezoic time ;
though for ages the world’s keenest observers never dreamed of its
being.—Denton.
| Mrs. Tappan-Richmond’s Trance Utterances.—In the course of a
trance address recently delivered at Chicago, Mrs. Tappan-Richmond
| said:—“ Has not Spiritualism dared to hurl the gauntlet into the very
arena of scientific investigation and challenge explanation ? Has not
Spiritualism dared to probe beyond the gateway of death and the walls of
! creeds and theological institutions, and to say that God is a God of love,
| and that all his children survive death 1 Has not Spiritualism dared to
bridge the chasm between science and religion, between God and nature,
and declared that there is no longer a warfare gigantic and unquenchable
between God and his children; and having done this, is it not also the
science upon which the human mind can for once reconcile its relations
| to the Infinite ? And shall it go unscathed by the tyrannies of the
world ? Shall the spirit which persecuted the Quakers, the Puritans,
i the martyrs and sages in early Christian times, be allowed to slumber ?
Would it not be strange if behind those walls, where theology is a part
of the daily life and feeds upon stone, there should be some discontent,
| because the bread of life after all should presume to appear outside of the
| walls ? Is it not indeed strange that more of this spirit is not manifest,
j and does it not bespeak a greater advancement in human thought, that
nothing of any importance has yet been done to suppress this great
heresy, and it has marched on into the world until now within the very
teeth of monarchy and church institutions they are fighting the battle
once more ?”—Banner of Light.
72
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 10,1877.
THE LAST DAYS OF ME. EGBERT DALE OWEN.
To the Editor of “ The Banner of Light?’
Sib,—Having received a number of letters from Spiritualist friends
making inquiries respecting the state of Mr. Owen’s mind, and of what
occurred during his visit, of two weeks, at my house a short time
previous to his passing away, I have thought it best to reply through
the columns of your journal. An additional reason for doing so is,
that my account may be a contradiction of the false report which has
been circulated by the New York Times, and two or three other papers,
that previous to his death he repudiated Spiritualism.
On the 25th of May last, Mr. Owen wrote me apprising me of his
intended visit, and after stating that his principal object was to procure
medical advice, he added : “ Aside from the immediate object, I shall
be very glad to have another chance of a few long talks with you on
the great subject which interests us both.” I give this extract to show
his continued interest in Spiritualism.
He came to my house on the 1st of June, and remained with us
until the 15th. 1 soon became satisfied that his case was hopeless, and
called to my assistance Dr. Kenny, the mesmeric physician. The
controlling spirit of the latter examined Mr. Owen, and told him to
have no uneasiness as to the result, for he would soon be well, but in a
private consultation with me afterward—the same day—he told me that
he would soon pass away, and it was that he meant when he said he
would soon be well.
When Mr. Owen had been with us about a week, Mr. and Mrs.
B , of Boston, visited us, and remained three days. Mrs. B is
one of the most interesting private trance-mediums I have met, and
we held seances each morning and evening, Mr. Owen being present at
most of them, and at one of these the presence of his father, Horace
Greeley, and Daniel Webster, was announced, and each had a kind
word of greeting for Mr. Owen, who had formerly been personally
acquainted with them, when the controlling spirit said that Commodore
Stringham was also present, “and he says he became acquainted with
Mr. Owen across the water, when he and Mr. Owen were there.”
S Yes,” Mr. Owen replied, “ I became acquainted with the Commodore
when I was Minister to Naples, and he was in command of the Medi¬
terranean fleet, with its headquarters at Naples, and we were in each
other’s society much of the time, often dining and visiting together,
and we became much attached. Has he anything to say to me ? ”
The reply was, jB Old friend, you cannot stand at the helm much
longer. You have sailed a good ship, and your course has been well
kept; the voyage is nearly ended; you are in sight of port; you will
soon come to anchor, and it is now time for you to retire to the cabin
and let other hands take the helm. All your friends await your coming
on the other shore, and will be glad to greet you. Do you
understand?” Mr. Owen replied that he did.
The few present were saddened; they knew but too well the import of
what was said, and Mr. Owen himself comprehended it equally well, but
did not seem to be cast down, and remarked that he was prepared and
willing to meet the change at any time. When we met for the next
seance, Mr. Owen was resting himself in his own room, and we did not
disturb him ; then the intelligence informed us that his earthly
course was nearly run, that very soon he would rejoin those of his
friends who had passed on before him, and who now were impatiently
awaiting his coming. The previous seance was the last at which Mr.
Owen was present.
In one of our first conversations after his arrival at my house, when
the possibility of a fatal termination to his disease was referred to, he
expressed a hope that his life and strength might be spared until next
winter, so that he should be able to write three more articles for
Scribner’s Monthly, which would conclude the chapters of his auto¬
biography, he having already written three, and placed them in the
hands of the publishers of the magazine. But in a day or two he
seemed to have lost this desire, for he did not afterwards refer to the
subject.
While with us he suffered severely, but not intensely. Perceiving,
from the first, that his case was hopeless, I gave him slight encourage- I
ment as to the final issue, and led him to infer, rather from what I did
not say than from what I did, my opinion of the result. When Com- j
modore Stringham addressed him in such significant language, he
construed it correctly as declarative of approaching dissolution, and
when, the following morning, I questioned him as I had done before j
as to his willingness to lay down the burden of earth-life, and enter
upon the spiritual, he emphatically declared, as he had done before, his
readiness and desire to meet the great and final change whenever it
should come. His only apprehension was that his sufferings might be j
prolonged and increased, but from this he was mercifully delivered, for
he passed away on Sunday, the 24th of June, nine days after he left
my house for his home at Lake George.
His mind, during the time of his visit, was clear and unclouded,
and his interest in everything relating to Spiritualism was unabated. |
On the day he left us he promised to communicate with me at the first
opportunity which should present after he had passed away. The
mediums upon whom I principally rely being absent, the opportunity
has not yet been furnished, but when it is, I have no doubt I shall
receive joyous tidings from him—if not from his own lips, at least
from his dictation.
As an author, Spiritualists best know him by his contributions to
our literature. His Footfalls and Debatable Land have not been ex¬
celled by any works on the subject, in ability and usefulness, and they
have had a circulation unequalled by any others. They will always
deservedly remain standard works on Spiritualism.
All Spiritualists knew Robert Dale Owen, either personally or by
reputation—they knew him, also, either from the good he had done
them, or humanity in general; and as l am writing for Spiritualists, it
would seem to be a superfluous task to eulogise him, his character and 1
works. His mind was comprehensive and logical, and more than
simply intellectual, for in the highest sense he was intelligent. He not
only possessed a vast fund of information, gathered largely from ob¬
servation and experience, but with a tenacious memory and keen per¬
ception of the relations of things, he without apparent effort could
draw upon it to an unlimited extent, and, through the exercise of his
descriptive powers, impress clearly and forcibly upon the minds of
others the ideas which were so real and tangible to his own mind. His
conversation and manners charmed both old and young, learned and
unlearned, and, while interesting, he instructed all. All who knew
him esteemed him, and those who knew him best, loved him. An atmo¬
sphere of sincerity, gentleness, kindness, and purity, surrounded him, and
every earnest, aspiring soul, when brought within its influence, felt
spiritually and morally invigorated and strengthened. His presence
was truly a benediction.
Robert Dale Owen has fought the good fight, he has nobly accom¬
plished the work assigned him in his earthly life, he has exchanged the
corruptible for the incorruptible, the mortal for the immortal, and has
received the crown of righteousness; but he has only passed to a higher,
a brighter, and purer sphere, with his interest in the good cause un¬
diminished, and from whence, with increased power and energy, he
will assist the advancement of the great work to which he was so
faithfully devoted, and which he so ably and untiringly prosecuted
while here. He is not dead, neither is his mission to humanity ended.
The crystal gates are ever open. Death to him is immortal life.
Eugene Crowell, M.D.
Brooklyn, New York,
A SINGULAR STORY OF A LOST DIAMOND PIN.
A singular incident happened in connection with a theft in a man¬
sion in Yan Ness Avenue a few nights ago, which Spiritualists will
immediately seize upon as an evidence that departed spirits are really
wont to return to this mundane sphere and exercise their power for
good or evil on the inhabitants thereof. In the elegant mansion re¬
ferred to lives a lady who has recently been visited by a sister, one of
those fortunate mortals who is the possessor of diamond jewellery and
gold coin in abundance. Shortly after her arrival the lady of the
house, for some good reason, discharged a female servant, and em¬
ployed another in her place. A day or two after this event the visitor,
desirous to go on a shopping expedition, took her purse, containing a
valuable diamond pin, and a respectable amount of coin, from its place
of security in a drawer, and laid it upon the bureau. She went from
the room several times in making her preparations, and, when ready
for departure, the purse with its contents was missing. The alarm
was at once given, and the two ladies, assisted by the new servant,
made a thorough search. The house was swept, the furniture moved,
and every possible crevice into which it could have fallen examined,
but all to no avail; the purse had disappeared as completely as though
the earth had opened and swallowed it. It was late at night before
the search ended, and, completely tired out, the household retired. In
the middle of the night the lady of the house was awakened by the
entrance of her sister, who was acting in the most singular manner,
and asking constantly for writing materials. Her nervous system
seemed to be highly excited, and she did not appear in her right mind,
though it was not a case of somnambulism. Paper and pencil were
given to her, and she immediately covered the former with scrawls
which were hardly decipherable. She soon quieted down and lapsed
into her normal condition, when the two ladies set themselves to work
to decipher the writing, in which they were finally successful, finding,
however, it all to be a repetition of the sentence, “ She has hid it
under the stool.” They decided that “ she ” meant the new servant,
and, proceeding to the latter’s door, they knocked for admittance. The
girl soon unlocked the door, when the ladies informed her that they
could not sleep, as the loss of the purse made it impossible, and that
she must dress and assist them in a further search. She grumblingly
obeyed, and as she came out of the door the ladies entered. At the
foot of the bed stood a covered stool, the cover reaching to the floor.
Highly excited, the ladies rushed to it, tripped it over, and there lay
the lost purse, with its contents intact. The servant from the outside
of the door had closely watched the ladies’ movements, and as they
placed their hands upon the stool she turned, ran down stairs, un¬
locked a door, and rushed into the street and away before she could be
apprehended, and she has not been seen or heard of since. So far from
being a Spiritualist, the lady is very positive in her disbelief of any
such agency, and, moreover, is an old-school Presbyterian, and in ac¬
cordance with her religious doctrine is opposed to any such theory as
spiritualistic influence. She ascribes the incident to the fact that her
nervous system was much overwrought—that she had been thinking and
dreaming about her loss, and, as there was no one upon whom the
blame could be charged, she accused the servant of the crime, though
an apparently unexplained circumstance is the fact that she had never
been in the servant’s room, and knew nothing of how it was furnished.
The facts occurred, however, precisely as above stated, and Spiritualists
and anti-Spiritualists will each undoubtedly^ be able to furnish a satis¬
factory explanation.—San Francisco Chronicle.
The attention of our readers who wish to complete their libraries,
is invited to the list of American books on Spiritualism printed on our
next advertisement page. We shall shortly withdraw many of them
from publication, and in future import only those most in demand.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
W. L.—You had better consult the Brixton Psychological Society, 6, Lough¬
borough-road-north, Brixton.
THE SPIBITUALIST,
August 10, 1877.
in
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. fid.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. fid.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, I6s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.'
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. Ss.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com-
e account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 16s. .
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ahility, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
leving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science; the Spirit' and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of atrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that ail spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7a. fid. „
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits tbrongb
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam, fis.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams,
fis.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave, fis.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will
2s'. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. fid.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. BuckniR and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
68. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s. _
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . , 15 0
The Physician. VoL I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. ,, II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ III, „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . ..76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis . . .76
i Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest ... . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . , , .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims , . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . ,30
Morning Lectures ... . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
». d.
24 0
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . •
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieitualist Newspaper . . z 6
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 C
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , , . , .' . 12 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . , 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description ofi Manifestations
recently prdduced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Other
Obseevers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messes. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical."—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be ■
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Brice Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” the hair
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holbom,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
iv
The great question of the day.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable, flpwards of 600,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PBINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS. — A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quietly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases j
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
muts be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
vyay of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.O.S., L.A.C., London, writes:—
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Couneillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction,, as customers who get it almost alway s recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c,”
' “ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says be never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL”
Sold by all Chemists, prick 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX
THE SPIRITUALIST. August 10, 1877,
THE REALITY OF SPIRIT
PROVED FROM RECORDS AND WORKS ON THE
SUBJECT.
BY “M.A. (OXON.).”
Introductory Chapter.—The general aspect of the subject:
its many-sidedness. Certain broad views to be more par¬
ticularly illustrated in subsequent sections. The claims and
present position of Spiritualism.
SECTION I.
Historical.—A retrospect of the history of the subject, illus¬
trated from Epes Sargent’s Planchette (reviewed), Mrs.
Hardinge Britten's History of American Spiritualism,
Wallace’s Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, Howitt’s
History of the Supernatural, Shorter’s Two Worlds, J udge
Edmond’s Tracts.
SECTION II.
Scientific.—Dealing with some aspects of the phenomena of
Spiritualism in reference to theories and explanations that
have been given. Hudson Tuttle’s Arcana cf Spiritualism,
(reviewed), Hare’s Spiritualism Scientifically Explained,
Crooke’s Besearches, De. Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit.
SECTION HI.
Phenomenal.—Dealing with published accounts of form-
manifestation, especially from Olcott’s People from the
Other World (reviewed), Epes Sargent’s Proof Palpable cf
Immortality, Wolfe’s Startling Facts in Modern Spirit¬
ualism.
SECTION IV.
Religious.—Showing the religious side of the subject as
brought out in Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modern
Spiritualism (reviewed), Dale Owen’s Address to the Clergy
in his Debateable Land, S. C. Hall’s Use of Spiritualism.
SECTION V.
Clairvoyance.—Dealing with the inherent powers of the
incarnate human spirit, especially that of clear-seeing or
supersensuous perception, as exemplified in simple dear-
sight or psychometrically in Denton’s Soul of Things, and
Andrew J. Davis’s Magic Staff (reviewed), Cahagnet’s
Arcana de la vie Future.
SECTION VI.
Occultism.—Dealing further with certain occult powers of
' the human spirit, and with phenomena attributable to them,
as shown in Art-Magic, Ghost-Land (reviewed), and further
illustrated by records of phenomena hitherto unpublished.
THE TRANS-CORPOREAL ACTION OF SPIRIT,
Especially during Sleep: Immediately Before, and at
the Time of Death: and under some Strong Passion
or Emotion.
[This will form a considerable section, distinct from the rest
of the book: and will include a large number of facts, new
and old, arranged on the principle of reference to their deter¬
mining cause, where such can be ascertained.]
NOTE.—The above scheme of the book of essays and
reviews previously announced, is a draft only, subject to any
alterations that may be deemed desirable. It is published
in compliance with a request from many sources for informa¬
tion as to the title and scope of the work. The title now
affixed explains what is intended. The scope of the work is
to notice sorhe aspects of Spiritualism as they are presented in
the works of other authors; and so to point out and summarise
the best books on the subject.
Though the plan may be modified, it will not be substan¬
tially changed.
The sections which deal with the phenomenal and religious
aspects will be so arranged as not to trench on the works
announced for future publication—Spirit Teachings and
Besearches in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism.
M. A. OXON.
The volume will be published at 10s. The names of sub¬
scribers should be sent to F. Pereival, 15, Conduit-street, W.
London, May, 1877.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of .the table or'sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the. letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage 7 ”. Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA, • -
OR , ,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University, ■
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
. CONTENTS. ■,
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Lbok
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various1
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions' of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Wam--
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force "
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Cbjects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Tr ansference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology ■
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VH:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritua
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It..
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XlII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualis
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
I TER ARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address O.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.C.
RIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.  
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained speedily every week from W. Kefinedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7.30.
EYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
respectfully announce that they execute ALL deseriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Bevebjdgk & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holboru
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O. .
