EaMSTURED A.S A. Newspapeb.
S]sf© 0^ ^dl^KCsi-
*
#I^st toit^ Spntttalxsm m $xmi §nfam.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : it, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street.* SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 275. (Vol. XI.—No. 22.) LONDON:* FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1877. Published Weekly ; Price Twopence.
OTontentg.
Religious Speculations among Spiritualists 253
The British National Association of [Spiritualists :—Form
Manifestations 254
The Antiquity of the Contention between Spiritualism and
Materialism   ... 256
The Career of Colonel Henry S. Olcott. By C. C. Massey 257
The Slate-Writing Phenomenon Again. By Epes Sargent 258
Readings by Mr. and Miss Dietz 258
Mesmeric Healing 259
“ London, Chatham, and Dover.” By Florence Marryat.
(Poetry.)  259
Form Manifestations       259
Correspondence:—Mr. Calder's Address—Mr. Maitland's
New Book—Mesmerism—Mr. Guppy’s “Devil” —
Slate-Writing (Phenomena—What Truth is there in
Astrology ? — Spiritual Literature in Liverpool—A
Case of Disftess ...     ... 260
“ A Vision,” and other Poems 263
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Next Wednes¬
day’s Soiree   ■ 263
Spiritualism-in Dalston 264
God’s Work Better than Man’s  \ 264
Answers to CorrCs^eedCnts  ... ...    ... 264
Paragraphs:—The Study of Mesmerism, 253; Mr. Morse’s
Appointments, 255 ; Mr. Colville’s Sunday Services,
255; Newcastle Psychological Society, 255; Experi¬
ments on the Mesmerising of Animals, 257; Professor
Gregory’s Animal Magnetism 258
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER :
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics oj
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
NEW MEMBERS.
Subscriptions paid before the end of the year by members
elected after this date will clear them up to the end of the year
1878.
EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE.
Chairman—Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.s.Tel.E.
The Research Committee having expended the sums en¬
trusted ip them, will be glad to receive subscriptions towards
the obje’ts they have in view.
SOIREE.
On Wednesday next, December 5th, a Soiree will be held
at 38, Great Russell-street, to welcome Miss Kislingbury on
her return from America. To commence at 6.30. Open to
members and friends.. Admission, Is.
SEANCES FOR ENQUIRERS.
Seances for Enouirers are held at 88, Great Russell-street,
at 8 p.m., every Wednesdav. Medium, Mr. Egb'nton. En¬
quirers admitted by free tickets on the recommendation of
a member, or by personal application to the secretary. Mem¬
bers, with one friend. Is. for each person. Number limited
to twelve.
INSPIRATIONAL ADDRESS.
Mr. J. W. Colville gives an Inspirational Address gratis at
38. Great Russell-street, at 4 p.m., every Saturday. Subject
chosen by the audience. Questions invited. A poem, also on
a subjeat chosen by the audience, at the close. Admisssion,
to members, free.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, TV.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS . K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
   Willesden,N.W.
Just published, price 7s. 6d
The soul, and how it found me |
being a narrative of phenomena connected with the
production of England and Islam, by Edward Maitlan 1.
■ Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.
Works by the Countess oe. .Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
'13 ETCHENBACH’S RESEARCHES, by the
jlVi late William Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E. 455 pp..
demy 8vo. Second-hand, in very good condition. Scarce.
10s.- Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London. W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL. oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual-
ts in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
so has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature. Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchteuberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Bark as, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe-: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the’’Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A; Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton, FR.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.RI.. Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places: —
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: BrM«h Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Just published, price 4d.
CLAIRVOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Oampden-
hill, Kensington.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are onen to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientiflo subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one took from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers hive been Instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
A. JOY, Acting Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For Information as to rules of membership. &c., &o., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sbo.
LANGHAM HALL, 43, Great Portland-street,
London. W. J. COLVILLE delivers an Inspirational
Oration followed by an Impromptu Poem (subjects chosen by
the audience), on Mondays at 8 p.m. Admission free to
balcony. Reserved, seats 2s.; unreserved, is.
/CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
Vy and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Ca-diff.
EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BERISAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the modiumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 61., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth 1b. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualvt
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russeil-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakop, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsie: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
r|1HE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Rassell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will flni it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving yon time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms:—1 So, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illmtrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <fcc.;
post free, sdven stamps.
IRKBECK BANXT—-Established TssiT—■
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C,
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issu id.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 30, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Colder., Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. 'W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev.N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa. Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malapar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, vanbrugh-park-road. Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd/J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, DesmondG., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd,North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, Itennlngton-
park, S.E'.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.Ai, University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Daiston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Relrrers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N„
S'cr'awbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawhridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Re.lcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W.. M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Moreil, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
W bite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Wiihall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoflsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Pertj-, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
II. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. ClaVairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledsianes.Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq-, 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Bel grave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Beigrave-road. S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet. Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kerfsington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Daiston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-Iane,
Daiston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Socledad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad|Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
' This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a ‘Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trtjbner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiapbas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. ‘ Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Golby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
•the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume,
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
ASTROLOGY, a popular sketch of Celestial
Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J. PEARCE, author
of the Weather Guide-Book, &c. Price Is. London:
Berger, Newcastle-street, Strand. Sent post free by the
author on receipt of twelve penny stamps; address, 3, Oedars-
terrace, Lavender-hill, S.W.
“ This work is the best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacquamted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily understood idea of what it really is ; and before under¬
taking to learn anything about it by any of my own works, I
advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.’’—Zadkiel.
N.B.—The author gives private instruction in Astrology.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This boob, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomena], Histosical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
  Address as above.  
MR, J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
SPIRITUAL HEALING
BY JAMES REGAN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQ., LONDON, W.O.
N.B.—Patients desiring personal treatment will please
make appointment in first instance by letter; terms as per
agreement.
MR. W. EGLINTON
Has returned to town, and may be addressed,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON
 S.W. 
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
Ip W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
Li @ engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
w
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired).
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.O.
MR. J. HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasant,
East-road, City-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en¬
gagements to start seances and to develops mediums.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at th eir homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, 90, Great Russell-
etreet, Bloomsbury, W.C. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, from 12 to
5 p.m. For visits of friendship, from 8 to 10 p.m.
Madame llancoris, 25, Guiiford-st.,
Russell-square, will hold Seances on Wednesdays,
Fridays and Sundays, at 8, for Music, Clairvoyance, Trance,
Automatic Writing, Tests and advice. Friends and
Spiritualists.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Is., post free, or 500for Is. Qd., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSENGER,
ALMANAC and EPHEMERIS for 1878, containing
Predictions of the Weather and Mundane Events, Birthday
Notes, &c., &c. Post free, 7d. ; with Ephemeris, Is. Id.
Raphael's Guide to Astrology, containing rules and infor¬
mation whereby any person may calculate and judge a
nativity. The most original and simple work on Astrology
ever published. Cloth, gilt, 3s. London: J. E. Catty 12
Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
% M|j|& dI % I’ljogrEss xJ % attb uf ^pnjtiaalbnt.
Vojlujvie Eleven. Number Twenty-two.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30th, 1877.
RELIGIOUS SPECULATIONS AMONG SPIRITUALISTS. jJ
A tolerably distinct line of demarcation in religions j j
belief, exists between the majority of the Spiritualists of j
England and America, and the majority of the Spiritualists j
of Continental Europe. The latter believe in the doctrine of i
Reincarnation—that is to say, that a man returns again and j
again to this earthly life in the body until he has worked out |
his own salvation through energy in pursuit of right, and |
punishment by eternal law for the commission of wrong, j
until he has fitted himself by merit and not by arbitrary |
benefaction at the hands of a partial Eternal Power, to enter j j
the popular realms of the blessed, which are but more | j
advanced spheres of work in the estimation of those higher | <
minds who do not conceive themselves to understand the ! J
whole realm of natural law, or to comprehend the designs of j;
the Almighty to such an extent as to render Him a super- j s
fluity in His universe. The other great division of Spirit- j!
ualists, including those in Great Britain, does not deny this j;
position, but regards it as “ not proven.” The evidence j
brought against the mental inertia of British Spiritualists j
in the matter of Reincarnation has not been sufficient to in j
any way disturb the dead weight of stolid apathy, nor will j
an endless quantity in the future of such letters from dis- I
putants on both sides as we have printed during the last two j
years in any way disturb “The Claimant” mass of in- j
difference.
The reason of the apathy is this:—The Reincarnation j
doctrine comes as a new religious idea, without expert- j
mental or evidential proof, or so little of it that that vital |
section of the argument is left in the background. The j
advocates of Reincarnation say :—“ Our doctrine explains j
masses of hitherto unsolved religious difficulties.” Admitted. rj
But explanation is no proof of truth. Five different ex- j
planations will sometimes account faultlessly for several |
difficulties at once; yet, but one of those explanations is j
right, and the other four must be false. And in such
cases, when the demonstration comes in course of years, j
and the four false explanations are cast out, where then is j
the foothold of those who accepted explanation in place of j
demonstration? The Ptolemaic theory of the movement j
of the heavenly bodies perfectly explained the facts as then |
known; but it was false, and has since been utterly destroyed i
by the demonstration of the true theory.
Why has the Reincarnation doctrine such attractions to ]
intelligent Spiritualists ?—Because a heaven full of common¬
place people, whose souls have been satirically said to be not j
worth If saving,” and whose society on this earth is a thing j
to be avoided by intelligent and high-class people, is too j
monstrous a reward for such a dead weight of mediocrity; j
and because a hell for people intelligent enough to con- j
scientiously think for themselves, and to accept outlawry as |
preferable to going to heaven with the dead weight of j
average stupidity, is too great a punishment for those who j
do their best in that condition of life in which it has pleased j
God to place them. The orthodox heaven and hell being i
thus unbelievable by the reverent intellectual mind, humbly |
seeking for religious truth, the want of another hypothesis j
is felt. Reincarnation fills the void thus created by the |
religious aspirations of the soul. It imagines no arbitrary j
Deity; it accounts for the justice of God in sending some
people through life—as the Countess of Caithness says—“in ]
an arm-chair,” whilst others suffer materially from the j
cradle to the grave. The pages in Old Truths in a Nero Light, j
by the Countess of Caithness, on the manner in which the j
Reincarnation doctrine explains the justice of God, as dis¬
played in the varied conditions of human existence, are
very interesting. As all have to pass—in the long re-
incarnationist chain of their lives on earth—through the j
same ordeal to gain the same experiences, or spiritual wealth, I
there is no injustice. Moreover, there is moral and material
economy in the system. If all human beings have to work
out their own salvation, without interference at the hands
of a demoralising and undignified omnipotent favouritism,
why should other realms be invented to give mankind ex¬
periences, for the working out of which ample provision has
already been made in the ordinary material planets of the
universe ?
When calmly considered as a remarkably powerful specu¬
lation, one error seems to us to underlie all this, even if we
agree to sail in the balloon of theological imagination un¬
ballasted by proved fact. As no two things in the material
universe are alike, why should we assume that men have to
pass through experiences to bring them to a monotonous
state of sameness, from which unparalleled plane they make
their first start in a truly spiritual state? Would they not
be happier if dead uniformity were but a theological dream,
never to be realised here, or hereafter ? To what extent
should we suffer if wTe could now artificially create that
uniformity in English society ?
As several explanations may thoroughly cover several
agglomerations of mental difficulties, and as the majority
of the explanations must be false, and only one of them
true, we are brought down, as “ B.” points out in this and
the last number of The Spiritualist, to the point of experi¬
mental demonstration, and by concentrated attention upon
this alone, can the advocates of Reincarnation hope to make
any impression upon the prevalent apathy in relation to the
| doctrine ? What is wanted are plain straightforward narra-
! tives, signed with the full name and address of each witness,
| setting forth the facts which he, A. B., considers to de-
j monstrate that he lived a former life in the human body on
| this or any other earth. Miss Blackwell, that very refined
and intellectual advocate of the Reincarnation doctrine, ad-
i dressed herself directly to this point, when she told how at
| a seance with Mrs. Mary Marshall—who did not know her—■
| her former lives were told her by the spirits, whose revela-
| tions agreed with those she had previously received else-
| where, and although she gave the spirits no clue by leading
| questions. This case we rule out of court, because if called
I upon for the evidence, we can prove that through a medium,
| not merely the present thoughts, but the long-forgotten
| thoughts of the sitter have been circumstantially and
| minutely given as spiritual prophecies, which predictions
! were utterly false, and would have been recognised to be
I false by the sitter had he known at the time to what the
! communication referred. Prince Wittgenstein addressed
| himself most forcibly to the method of demonstration now
| asked for, in an article in this journal which he once wrote
i about a medal, but a weak link in the evidence was, that
| one of the dramatis personae may have been a sensitive
| influenced in her utterances by his unexpressed belief.
Therefore, if our Reincarnationist friends, by whom we
| wish to be taught, will leave off saying that their doctrine
| explains so much—which may be admitted, and which is
| but feeble indication of truth—and will substitute properly
I signed and authenticated demonstration for speculative ex-
! planation, they will begin to disturb the existing mountain
| of indifference, and to excite the irritation of antagonists,
| which irritation may be a sign of the presence of some truth
| having a firmer foundation than that of an ephemeral in-
| telleetual balloon.
The Study oe Mesmerism.—Dr. Crowell writes from New York :—
‘‘The study of mesmerism is the true and proper preparation for the
study and investigation of the spiritual phenomena ; all Spiritualists
who have neglected it should inform themselves of its facts, and they
will find this knowledge of great assistance in enabling them to under¬
stand the related facts of their own philosophy.”
254
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Nov. 30, 1877.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
Last Monday night, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald,
M.S.Tel.E., presided. There was a large attendance.
The Rev.W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., then read the following paper :—
“ It is now nearly a year* since Miss Kislingbury read a paper in this
place on the subject of “ Form Manifestations,” in which she pointed
out that the term covered a wide area, and might apply to very diverse
kinds of phenomena. The choice of that term (erroneously attributed
in her recent book by Madame Blavatsky to myself) seemed to me very
felicitous, as did the paper in which Miss Kislingbury developed her
views with regard to the various phenomena embraced under it.
Nearly six months afterwardst I submitted to this society a paper on
the same subject, in which I endeavoured to particularise what had been
done in the way of accumulating exact knowledge, and to point out what
still remained to be desired. Exact knowledge, when accounts were
thoroughly sifted, there was very little. Some fortunate experimenters
had, indeed, been in a position to give positive testimony as to the pro¬
duction of a human form which they had seen, and of the existence of
which they had assured themselves while the medium was in their
sight. But these were conspicuously the exceptions which only served to
prove the rule.
“In most cases—practically in all save a tiny percentage—the scientific
result was nil. A medium was secluded from view, and certain forms
were more or less visibly perceived to issue from the cabinet in which he
had been placed. Of the changes which his system underwent, of the
connexion between these mysterious apparitions and his body, of the
method by which such results were obtained, we knew absolutely
nothing. In given cases, were they separate individualities built up
from materials found in medium, or circle, or atmosphere, or a combina¬
tion of these ? Were they cases of transference from the plane of spirit
to the plane of matter ? Were they transfigurations of the medium ?
We did not know. We could not tell; we could not even guess.
To remove this ignorance, of which I ventured to say in my paper,
“ that we ought to be thoroughly ashamed,” to obtain a first step to
knowledge, I suggested as a primary necessity, the abolition of the cabinet,
and I gave some obvious reasons for such a demand. I need not re¬
capitulate these, for they have found a pretty general acceptance now.
But I may say, in passing, that reiterated exposures of fraud, as in the
late Bliss case in America, make it more and more necessary to remove
all means whereby an impostor may deceive, and none is more useful in
this respect than a dark cabinet. When this suggestion was first made
it was received far otherwise than it is now. With one consent spirits
and mortals rose and denounced the sacriligious person who would lay
hands on the very sanctum sanctorum of the ghosts. Circles were held
in which the idea was summarily pronounced impossible of execution, and
that on the best authority, in fact by our own correspondent at head¬
quarters. It could not be done : the spirits said so. Q E.D. Veteran
investigators told me in abundant letters with which they vexed my
soul, that I was going far too fast; and that I was imposing
my own conditions ; wanting to take photographs without a dark room ;
dictating to angels, and so on. There was a general consensus of
opinion between those on earth and those who had gone before, that
the thing could not, should not, and ought not to be done.
Well, I had very little to say then. I knew that every new experi¬
ment by which our store of knowledge has been increased has always
been received with such suggestions, and that especially by those in¬
visible operators who are so nervously sensitive to any change of con¬
ditions. I was content to bide my time, and say little.
Now, I have more to say. The principle of experiment has been
applied, and the difficulties have all vanished. The thing that might,
could, would, should, and ought not to be done is an accomplished fact.
We have heard from Mr. Colley, and we have seen from various letters
printed in The Spiritualist and Medium,% that the process of evolution of
these forms from the side of the medium has been observed, not once
only, but repeatedly, and under conditions which, as they have been
detailed, are certainly sufficient for the purpose of exact observation. I
have myself been present at one such experiment, and what I saw,
under conditions which I hope may hereafter be improved, but which
enable me to appreciate the more favourable experiments of others
was a valuable addition to my knowledge.
“ I have already published in The Spiritualist a short account of the
points which struck me, and, referring the curious to it, I confine myself
now to noticing some further details. To make myself intelligible,
however, I must shortly premise that at the seance to which I refer I
witnessed the production of two forms, one a child, one a tall man ; that
these forms were apparently evolved from the body of the medium, and
that after an interval of independent life, they vanished from my gaze :
further, that I satisfied myself by various tests of their distinct existence ;
that they could walk, sit, talk articulately in a loud whisper, and that
one of them inscribed a number of hieroglyphics in my pocket-book.
Moreover, I may add that I touched the hands of both figures, and
noticed the drapery they wore, also a curious helmet, or head-dress of
metal, that graced the head of one of them.
“Premising these points for the information of those who are not
acquainted with my accounts, I proceed to notice some farther points.
“ 1. As to the mode of production and dissipation of the form.
“ The evidence goes to show that it is produced from the left side of
the medium, near the region of theheart. The first appearance is nebulous,
as though vapour were in a state of agitation, and was being condensed
into a solid form. The motion is as if a vortex were created within the
figure. This rotatory motion goes on until the vaporous mass is con¬
densed into a figure. It is then apparently united to the medium by a
* Spiritualist, Dec. 22,187.6. t Spiritualist, May 18,1877.
i Mr. Colley, Spiritualist, Oct 5, 1877; Medium, Oct. 12, 1877.
cord of the same nebulous substance as that of which itself is formed,
(j By and bye this is severed by a motion of the medium’s hand, and the
]j figure stands apparently, but not really, alone and independent. Not
) | actually independent, I say, for it is necessary for the medium to approach
(| the form at intervals of a few minutes in order to revive its vitality.
>i “I saw one of these forms moving about, lifting a chair, talking,
n writing, while the table and myself were between it and the medium.
U It was to all intents and purposes a distinct entity.
>| “The mode of absorption seems to be analogous to that of its evolu-
|| tion. The same notion of a vortex is preserved. It is, so to say,
(! sucked into the medium and reabsorbed. On this point Mr. Colley’s
)j evidence is precise. I take the liberty of condensing, but present the
(i sense intact:—
11 “‘When the form at last retired, I was permitted to accompany it
[| until I was close to Dr. Mouck, as he stood full in view of all. As it
ji neared him the gossamer filament which unites the form to the medium
(| again came into view, the vanishing point being towards the heart.
)\ By means of this cord I saw how the figures seemed to be sucked back
(i into the body of the medium. Like a waterspout at sea, the superior
j! vital power of Dr. Monck drew on the spirit form gradually, so that I
was enabled to watch the process, “./or, leaning against, and holdmg,
I the medium, with my left arm at his back, and my left ear and cheek
Si to his breast, his heart beating in a most violent and alarming way, I
I saiv him receive back into his person ” the form before distinct from
(j him. I marked its fair aspect, eyes, hair, and delicate complexion,
| and kissed the dainty hand as, in process of absorption, it dissolved
(| into the medium.’
j “ From this it will be seen that Mr. Colley’s view was near and com-
)| pletely satisfactory. If such evidence is to be put aside, where are we
i to stop 1 It seems to me to leave nothing to be desired on the score of
j completeness. I have no such evidence to give. I wish I had ; for it
Si is greatly to be desired that phenomena of this startling nature should
(j be again and again observed by independent witnesses, and the most
(j exact records preserved. They are of incalculable value as means of
I! advancing exact knowledge.
(j “2. Now what was this vapour which was so agitated from a'central
(i point as to form this figure ? WhaJ; was the pabulum ?
|i “Briefly—odic, psychic, or vital force. It is the universal pabulum,
fj the raw material used in all operations of this nature. At a seance I
U see it as floating masses of luminous vapour, which condense into forms
H visible to my clairvoyant sense, or form the material out of which the
(i invisible operators produce whatever physical manifestations they
i desire. I have seen it as a fiery cloud over the circle before some scent-
|i laden breeze has swept over us ; as a pillar of light, when the same
u scented air is carried round the circle ; as a ball of light, when peculiar
) j rappings are made ; in short, it is the pabulum of spirit manifestations.
)\ And here we get a clue to its source. It is the medium’s vital force.
(I “ 3. The variety of materials, if I may use the term, made out of
i this pabulum is not a little singular.
j “Drapery, metal, and, so far as one could tell, ‘all things that
j appertain to the perfection of man’s nature,’ The drapery that ap-
)j pears in connection with these forms has always been a puzzle,
j Whence did it come? And when the seance was over, whither had it
(j, gone? We had here an illustration of the whence and the
I whither; but if one had cut some of it off, torn it, rudely detained it
j in one’s grasp—what then? Would it have remained the counter-
[1 part more or less exact of fabrics of the earth? Would it have
ij been dispersed in air? I do not know; but such points should be
J! cleared up.
II “ The hand, too, was to all intents and purposes fashioned as mine
'I is, but cold, and giving off or surrounded with a most repellent atmos-
|| phere. It felt like the hand of a corpse, and, approaching it, sent a
shudder through me. It seemed to me as if the air were in circulation
round it; as if, indeed, the whole body, with its circumambient atmos-
| phere, were held in attraction round a centre. The notion of the
vortex never left me.
“ I had another opportunity, on the evening of November 24th last,
j of witnessing the production of this drapery. Mr. Eglinton was the
i medium, and the seance was held at the house of Mrs. Makdougall
! Gregory, 21, Green-street. The medium lay on a sofa in our sight;
j but here again testimony is rendered of far less value on account of
the very dim light permitted. What apparently took place was very
similar to what I saw with Dr. Monck. A nebulous mass appeared :
it seemed to be in a state of constant motion ; the medium too, rolled
on the sofa backwards and forwards until his whole body was
enveloped in a mass of white gauzy drapery. He afterwards stood up
| draped from head to foot in this white substance. Where it came
from I do not know, or how it was made, or what became of it. One
must see the same thing again and again, and in very much better
I light before offering any opinion.
| “ 4. The movements of the forms were constrained and automaton-
| like. There was an absence of lithe freedom of movement which was
j very striking. The little girl could clap her hands and ring a kand-
| bell, and her lips moved as whispering sounds issued from them. The
| male figure lifted a chair, sat down with difficulty and awkwardness, and,
j at my request, inscribed some hieroglyphics in my pocket-book. But
j the movements throughout were unnatural and constrained, as I have
j before noticed in some of these forms.
; “5. Lastly, What was the formative power?
} “ I believe it to be one external to the figure. I believe them to be
pieces of animated spirit-sculpture controlled ab extra, possibly in a
manner analogous to that in which a mesmeriser controls the move¬
ments of his subject. Everything pointed to this conclusion—the con-
j strained attitudes, the movements so automaton-like, the hollow, sepul¬
chral voice ; speaking, too, a language unknown to the Egyptian figure ;
the reiterated refreshing of the forms from the body of the medium, and
the motion of a number of molecules temporarily held in attraction round
Nov. 30, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
255
a centre of force, which was prominent to my mind throughout: all
this favours the idea of external creation and control. Who the
operator was I do not know; but I believe him to be distinct from
that specimen of his handiwork which I saw. If he can make drapery,
and hair, and flesh, and metal, so that they present to ray eye the self¬
same appearance as those objects naturally do, then it seems to me that
I must know very much more of him and of bis resources before I can
accept these forms as any evidence of identity. It seems to me that,
as the same pabulum under the formative will of the invisible operator
took shape as a helmet or a band, as drapery or a head of hair, as in the
one case there resulted a girl and in the other a dusky man of stalwart
size, so at the same irresponsible dictation there might have stalked
amongst us a red Indian brave or a Hottentot squaw, a counterfeit
presentment of great Csesai’, or of any other historic or unknown
character that fancy might dictate. It seems to be a mere question of
the shape of the mould or direction of the plastic skill of the invisible
operator.
“For this very sufficient reason no evidence of identity can at
present be had from these form manifestations—at least to the public.
I can understand persons who are in constant association with a par¬
ticular spirit thus presenting himself, becoming convinced of his moral
consciousness, and believing his statements. But for the public it
would seem to be waste time to attempt to gain evidence of personal
life after death from such phenomena. It is best, surely, to view them
simply as phenomena, without vexing ourselves with complicated ques¬
tions of identity, or endeavouring to make the facts carry conclusions
which they will not bear. As phenomena, they are presented for
investigation : of their objective reality no doubt can exist in the mind
of any informed man. But beyond that all is darkness, illumined only
by fitful gleams of more or less probable speculation.
“ The thing itself is there, but by what method it has been formed,
what its source and object, whether it is an animated statue or a
spiritual being encrusted with molecules of matter ? whether, if so, it
be of our race or not, and, most important of all, what is the power
that lies behind it 1 what the formative intelligence that can create and
destroy in this wise 1 These are questions which remain for solution,
and which will be solved, not by wild guesses or enthusiastic specula¬
tions, but by sober, patient, and protracted investigation.”
At the close of the reading of the foregoing paper, the chairman
expressed the opinion that cabinets must be abolished before much
progress in the knowledge of the nature of the phenomena can be
made. Perhaps the awkward movements of some of these forms were
due to their possessors coming suddenly within the influence of gravi¬
tation.
Dr. Wyld said that Mr. Colley had stated that he had seen these
forms grow from the size of a doll to that of a man, which would tend
to prove that the materialised figures were automata produced by spiritual
force. If so, as automata, their outward appearance gave no proof of
identity; their producers might be able to copy features, and “to
deceive the very elect.” Mr. Colley had told him that the clothes of
Dr. Monck rotted quickly ; might this not be due to Some of their con¬
stituent particles being used in the processes of materialisation, and
afterwards returned to him somewhat, say, in the condition of shoddy ?
(Laughter.)
Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Didsbury, stated that Miss Kate Cook had
been giving seances in his house, and that one of her spirits had told him
that the spirit drapery was not brought into the room in the condition in
which it was shown to the sitters, but it was carried in a “fluidic” state.
He then described the seance, the details of which he had previously
published in The Spiritualist.
Mr. Mawson and Mr. Ashton complained that in consequence of the
platform being placed at the extreme end of two rooms, the listeners in
one of the rooms could not hear most of the remarks of the various
speakers.
Mr. Thomas Shorter thought that experiments to determine the re¬
lative weights of the forms and mediums during the manifestations
would be of value. The sitters might also be weighed. Mr. Colley
and Mr. Stainton-Moses had made no mention of the place in which the
three seances with Dr. Monck had been held; if such astounding
phenomena took place in the rooms of the medium, or of any spiritual
institution, or anywhere where bias in their favour might be supposed
to prevail, latent suspicion would exist in the minds of many persons, and
it ought to be eliminated, although he did not for a moment wish to
suggest that such suspicion would rest on a just foundation. Observers
should not be too hasty in attempting to explain by a single theory
various phenomena differing perhaps in their nature, and not to be run
at desire into one mould.
Mr. Charles Blackburn thought cabinets to be useful in conserving
force at materialisation seances, and light at times had a painful effect
on the medium. Once the spirit asked him to suddenly turn a strong
light upon the medium at a critical stage of the manifestations, and,
with a shriek, the entranced medium flew upwards, whirling in the air,
and fell flat on the floor, with her head under a chair. He expected to
find her injured, but she was not hurt.
Signor Rondi said that he had held both hands of the medium
who was developing under Mr. Blackburn’s guidance, and had seen a
figure grow behind the medium until it was three or four inches taller
than herself, then going down to the floor, leaving only a piece of white
drapery to be seen, and up again close to the medium, and speaking to
them both. The spirit had considerable weight; he ascertained this by
asking her to stand upon his hand, which she did, his hand being also
close to the medium’s boots; the spirit had no boots. He had seen
forms growing from her side, and several times from near her feet, he
meanwhile holding the medium’s hands. He had seen a little girl
about three years old materialised at the same time as a full-grown
figure, and had seen these two spirits and the medium together. The
face of the child was draped, but the child could run about, and he had
111 examined its little flexible hands. He had also seen both spirit and
! j medium walking in the room together. There was a good light,
i j | The Chairman wished to know whether these things took place in
| j j the house of the medium.
j) | Signor Bondi said that he had had materialisations with her in his
j j own rooms, as well as at her own home, and that Mr. A. R. "Wallace
| | had been present at one of the seances in the former place. Mr.
i | Wallace remarked on the occasion that a large box would be required
i j to pack away all the white drapery in which the form was clothed.
|jj Mr. Wallace, at request, followed the spirit into the cabinet, but found
jji , that it had gone, drapery and all; there was nothing there but the
| j entranced medium.
If The Rev. Thomas Colley had had a seance on the previous Friday,
|{| and not in the house of the medium. A. form came from behind the
ij edge of the table ; at first it was a perfectly human form, much like a
ijl little doll. The thought had struck him that the medium in these
111 manifestations might be in an analogous position to that occupied by a
| ; lens in respect to light, and that, as the conditions on the spiritual side
j j j of him varied, so did the objective forms presented to human observa-
| I tion. He thought cabinets should be disused, but not suddenly and
| | arbitrarily. Not only did Dr. Monck’s clothes decay rapidly, but the
| | silver in his pockets blackened speedily in consequence of some chemical
|)! action.
j j Miss Kislingbury wanted to know whether Mr. Egliuton’s face was
! | seen during the seance mentioned by Mr. Stainton-Moses. Was it a
|) | case of transformation of the medium, and not of materialisation ?
ij| Mr. Blackburn said—“ But how about transformation into a baby %”
|j| (Laughter.)
j j | Mr. Stainton-Moses replied that there was no doubt it was a trans-
iji formation ; no secret was made of the fact. Mr. Shorter appeared to
|f | have forgotten how he had searched and sealed the room in which Dr.
| Monck’s seances took place ; the only window looked into a deep well
j j at the back. He should like to get one of the forms into a corner to
| f | see what would become of it; somebody once suggested shooting one
i) of them, but he replied—“ Don’t shoot it, give it to me; I should like
j| to try experiments with it.” (Applause). The “hieroglyphics”
jji written by the figure he had described were only scribble—no hiero-
i) glyphics at all.
I j i The proceedings then closed with the usual votes of thanks.
If At the next meeting a paper will be read by Dr. Wyld. These
1)! meetings are gradually exciting as much interest as the early Gower-
| j I street and Beethoven Rooms spiritualistic conferences.
j In the course of the recent controversy in the pages of Nature,
i Mr. Crookes exhibited Dr. Carpenter in his true colours with well-
| deserved severity.
I Could not various spiritualistic societies and private individuals
j give Mr. Coates, of Liverpool, engagements enough to bring him to
i London for a week, to show mesmeric experiments in public ? Is
| there a field for him in the metropolis 1
I Mr. J. W. Fletcher, trance medium, will deliver an address at
I the East-end Spiritual Institution, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile end,
i London, on Sunday evening next, at seven p.m. ; subject — “Who
! are the Christians ? ”
i Mr. Morse’s Appointments.—On Sunday next Mr. J. J. Morse will
| deliver a trance address in the Spiritualists’ Hall, Newgate-street,
J Newcastle-on-Tyne, at 6.30 p.m.; subject, “The Spirit-Life.” On
I j Monday evening he will deliver an address in the same hall, at 8 p.m.,
j I the subject to be chosen by the audience. On Tuesday evening Mr.
I I Morse will deliver a trance address, at the Excelsior Circle, South
| | Shields; and on Wednesday, December 5th, he will deliver a trance
I 5 address at Sunderland.
| Newcastle Psychological Society.—The committee of this society
I desires to acknowledge with thanks the following gifts to its library,
i viz., one copy each of Swedenborg’s Heaven and Hell, Divine Love
j and Wisdom, Divine Providence, The Four Leading Doctrines, The
| ■ Apocalypse Revealed, and The True Christian Religion, from the
j j Swedenborg Society; three vols. (bound) Banner of Light, wad. three
| l vols. (bound) Religio - Philosophical Journal, from Mr. J. N. T.
j Martheze; a presentation copy of the The Lazy Lays, from the author,
I | Mr. W. H. Harrison; one copy each of Kardec’s The Spirit's Book
| | (Blackwell), Barker’s The Mendal, Denny’s .4(pAa, Crookes’ Researches,
j|j Tappan’s Discourses, and Crosland’s Apparitions, from Mr. Joseph
I j j Skipsey ; the first seven vols. of Human Nature, from “ A Friend ”;
i f i and copies of Mr. Morse’s Leaves from my Life, from Mr. W. Hunter
jjj and Mr. H. A. Kersey.
I | Mr. Colville’s Sunday Services.—On Sunday next Mr. W. J.
!jj Colville will deliver an inspirational discourse in the Cavendish Rooms,
| | Mortimer-street, Regent-street, London, on “The Day of Judgment
if I from a Spiritual Standpoint.” The service will commence at 11.15 a.m.
|j! punctually. In the afternoon, at 3.15, the first of a series of discourses
ijl will be given at Salisbury Hall, 429, Oxford-street, the subject, by
|f j particular request, “ Marriage.” Questions are invited, and an extem-
j poraneous poem will be uttered at the conclusion of the discourse ; all
I I seats free. On Monday last Mr. Colville delivered a discourse on
|f | “Vegetarianism,” in Langham Hall, followed by replies to questions,
|j| and two impromptu poems, one on “Reincarnation,” the other on
||| “ Charity.” Miss Chandos Leigh Hunt presided. In the course of her
if I remarks from the chair, she stated that the meetings had by no means
|j| proved financially successful, and that there was an average loss of
|f £1 2s. every week. At the close of the meeting it was decided to con-
|j| tinue the lectures for the three following Mondays—December 3rd,
I | 10th, and 17th—and then stop them. Mr. Colville requests Spiritualists
‘O to do all in their power to secure larger attendances.
256
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 30, 1877.
THE ANTIQUITY OF THE CONTENTION BETWEEN
SPIRITUALISM AND MATERIALISM.
Tuening to Plato’s works* in my study of the controversy
between the Materialist and Spiritualist school, I have been
much impressed by finding ascribed to Socrates and his
friends in Phcedo, the very difficulties and arguments which
appear as new in the modern discussion. These help to
confirm me in the persuasion that it is in the alleged facts
and phenomena, reaching Spiritualists and Psychologists in
their unpretending investigations, that any knowledge is ever
to be acquired. I give some extracts bearing on present
opinions and which will possibly aid those who may not have
an opportunity of turning to the volume themselves.
Socrates is discoursing with Echecrates, Phsedo, Appole-
dora, Cebes, Simmias Crito, and others, at their last inter¬
view with him on the day he is to die. In reply to an observa¬
tion by Crito he says, (t I now wish to render an account to
you of the reason why a man who has really devoted his life
to philosophy, when he is about to die, appears to me on good
grounds to have confidence, and to entertain firm hope, that
the greatest good will befall him in the other world when
he has departed this life. How this comes to pass I will
endeavour to explain. . . . Many who rightly apply themselves
to philosophy, seem to have left all others in ignorance that
they aim at nothing else than to die and be dead. If this
be true it would surely be absurd for them to be anxious
about nothing else during their whole life and then when it
(death) arrives, to be grieved at what they have been long
anxious about, and aimed at.”
Simmias, upon this, smiling, says:—u Socrates, I think
that the multitude if they heard this, would think it very
well said in reference to philosophers, and that our country¬
men particularly would agree with you that true philosophers
do desire death, and that they are by no means ignorant that
they deserve to suffer it.”
After some intermediate discussion, Socrates remarks :—
il It has then in reality been demonstrated to us that if we
are ever to know anything purely, we must be separated from
the body, and contemplate the things themselves by the mere
soul.”
Cebes, farther on, then takes up the discussion saying :—
“ Socrates, what you have said about the soul will occasion
much incredulity in many, from the apprehension that when it
is separated from the body it no longer exists anywhere, but
is destroyed, and perishes on the very day in which a man
dies, and that immediately it is separated and goes out from
the body, it is dispersed and vanishes like breath or smoke,
and is no longer anywhere.”
On this Socrates enters on the argument that the soul goes
to Hades after death, and concludes it by remarking i( that
it seems to me, Cebes, that such undoubtedly is the case, and
that we have not admitted these things under a delusion,
and that it is in reality true That the souls of the dead
exist and that the condition of the good is better, and of the
bad worse.”
Following on a long disquisition that knowledge is but
memory or reminiscence of facts ascertained through the
senses, Socrates asks, u Did we not sometime since say that
the soul when it employs the body to examine anything,
either by means of the sight or hearing or other sense ....
is then drawn by the body to things that never continue the
same, and wanders and is confused, and reels as if intoxicated
through coming into contact with things of this kind.”
Passing by other contentions between Socrates and his
companions, I come on what seems pregnant with cogent
thoughts for us to-day, when Socrates exclaims, “ The lovers
of wisdom know that philosophy, perceiving their soul
obviously bound and glued to the body, and compelled to
view things through it, as through a prison, and not directly
by herself,” . ... il gently exhorts it (the soul) by showing
that the view of things by the eyes is full of deception, as also
through the ears and other senses, persuading an abandon¬
ment of these (the senses), so far as it is not absolutely
necessary to use them, and advising the soul ” .... “to
consider nothing true which she views through the medium
of others which differs under different aspects; a (varying)
* The Works of Plato, chiefly from the text of Stalbbaum, by Henry Cary, M,A;
| j thing of this kind is sensible and visible, but what she
M herself perceives is intelligible and invisible.”
| j Further on Simmias says :—“ It appears to me, Socrates,
11 probably as it does to you with respect to these matters,
ijj that to know them clearly in the present life is either
||| impossible or very difficult.” . ... “I therefore shall
k| not be ashamed to question you,” .... “for to me,
| ! Socrates, when I consider the matter both with myself
||| and Cebes, what has been said does not appear to have
Kj been sufficiently proved.” .... “Any one might use
j)j . the same argument with respect to harmony and a lyre
||1 and its strings; that harmony is something invisible
| and incorporeal, very beautiful, and divine, in a well-tuned
If lyre; but the lyre and its strings are bodies, of corporeal
|| form, compounded and earthly, and akin to that which is
11 mortal. When any one, then, has either broken the lyre, or
) | cut or burst the strings, he might maintain from the same
11 reasoning as yours, that it is necessary the harmony should
| j still exist and not be destroyed; for there could be no possi-
)! bility that the lyre should subsist any longer when the strings
11 are burst, and that the strings which are of mortal nature
< j should subsist, but that the harmony, which is of the same
|! nature, and akin to that which is divine and immortal, should
11 become extinct and perish before that which is mortal; but
11 he might say that the harmony must subsist somewhere,
| j and that the wood and strings must decay before it can
| i undergo any change. For I think, Socrates, that you have
| arrived at the conclusion that we consider the soul to be
11 pretty much of this kind, that our body, being compacted
11 and held together by heat and cold, dryness and moisture,
j | and other such qualities, our soul is the fusion and harmony
| of these when they are well and duly combined with each
j other.” .... “Consider, then, what we shall say to this
| reasoning, if any one shall maintain that the soul being a
| j fusion of the several qualities of the body, is the first to
| j perish in that which is called death.” Upon which Socrates,
j 1 looking steadfastly, as he was generally accustomed to do,
| and smiling, said, “ Simmias indeed speaks justly ; .... he
11 seems to have handled my argument not badly.”
| Cebes is then asked by Socrates to give his version of the
| argument as it strikes him, and a discussion ensues, not so
| interesting perhaps as to be quoted, tending, as it seemed,
| to renew the doubts and difficulties in their minds which
j Socrates had been attempting to remove. Socrates then
| warns them not to act as philosophers do in their discussions,
11 “ For they, when they dispute about anything, care nothing
| at all for the subject about which the discussion is, but are
| anxious about this, that what they have themselves advanced
| shall appear true to the persons present.”
| I shall quote only one or two paragraphs more, inviting
| your readers to go to the text itself, as in Cary’s translation,
| for Socrates’ reply at length to Simmias and Cebes. But
I here is one suggestive paragraph in it: “ When I, Socrates,
| was a young man, Cebes, I was wonderfully desirous of that
| wisdom which they call a history of nature ; for it appeared
| to me to be a very sublime thing to know the causes of
| everything, why each thing is generated, why it perishes,
I and why it exists.” . . . . “ Whether the blood is that by
| means of which we think, or is it air or fire, or none of these,
j but the brain that produces the perceptions of hearing,
j seeing and smelling; and that from these come memory and
| opinion, and from memory and opinion, when in a state of
| rest, in the same way, knowledge is produced ? ”
|! Without following the somewhat discursive subjects which
[ | after this engaged the attention of the. disputants till the
! hour was reached for Socrates’ departure, I feel that even in
11 the foregoing imperfect extracts I may have supplied a
|! mirror, as it were, in which modern philosophers and dis-
| j putants may see features not very much unlike their own.
II Without quoting modern names, will any one man of science
• of to-day claim to have an intellect more advanced than
11 that of Plato or Socrates; and, if not, will he and his
j | brethren claim that by the scalpel or microscope in their,
> i let us admit, more dexterous hands, they have found out or
> | even advanced our ideas, not to say knowledge, one hair’s
} | breadth, as to what the intellect of Socrates was, or what
11 their own continues to be ?
11 That Socrates passed from this world believing, in spite
of all difficulties, nay, impossibilities of proof, that he was
Nov. 30, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
257
going to another. I finish by quoting his words in reply to
Crito’s query : u But how shall we bury you?” u Just as
you please,” he said, “ if only you can catch me and I do
not escape youand at the same time, smiling gently, and
looking round, he said, u I cannot persuade Crito, my friends,
that I am Socrates who is now conversing with you, and who
methodises each part of this discourse; but he thinks that
I am he whom he will shortly behold dead, and asks how
he should bury me ? But I seem to have argued to him in
vain, that when I have drunk the poison I shall no longer
remain with you, but shall depart to some happy state of
the blessed.”
Let me conclude with the last recorded words of this man,
who, we may say with Echecrates, was a the best of all his
time that we have known; and, moreover, the most wise
and just.” Socrates said, u Crito, we owe a cock to iEscu-
lapius; pay it, therefore, and do not neglect.” Can no
modern Crito persuade the Socrates’ of the present day, wise
and just though they be in their own opinions, also to sacri¬
fice a cock to iEsculapius in the shape of their prejudices
against alleged facts around them ? B.
THE CAREER OF COLONEL HENRY S. OLCOTT.
BT C. C. MASSEY.
De. Carpenter having spoken (as usual, upon mere hear¬
say) in terms of offensive disparagement of my friend,
Colonel Olcott, in a footnote to his article in Fraser, I ask
leave to place before your readers some particulars respecting
the literary, scientific and public career of this honourable
and not undistinguished gentleman, which I obtained from
him during my stay in New York two years ago, when I was
honoured with his intimate acquaintance. A day or two
before I left for England, it occurred to me that before very
long the question might be asked here, “Who is this
Colonel Olcott, who makes these amazing statements to the
world ? ” and that it would be desirable that there should be
some one able to reply upon the spot. Accordingly I got my
friend to give me a history of his antecedents, which he not
only did, but accompanied it with plentiful vouchers in the
shape of original letters, documents, and other testimonies,
understanding my object, and good-humouredly proffering
proofs which one gentleman could not ask of another with¬
out immediate and business-like occasion.
At a very early period of life Colonel Olcott was called
upon to make his own way, and soon learned that knowledge
of the world and of mankind which of all knowledge is the
least favourable to a habit of credulity, or to deception by
impostors. He travelled, and rubbed shoulders with all
kinds of people; and at forty-three, when I made his
acquaintance, was about as hard-headed, and as little disposed
to an innocently charitable estimate of character or preten¬
sions as anybody I ever met. Agricultural pursuits and
inquiries first engaged his attention, and were, I believe, the
occasion of his early travels. He became a recognised autho¬
rity on these subjects, was the author of three works on
scientific agriculture; one, on the Chinese and African sugar¬
cane, which passed through seven editions. He was for
some time agricultural editor of the Nero York Tribune, and
correspondent of our Mark Lane Express. His Government
offered him a commissionership of agriculture. While yet
young, he became a lawyer, not practising in the courts, but
advising and transacting business in chambers. During the
war with the South, he was appointed special counsel for the
War Department, and was connected with that office for
three or four years. In the course of that employment he
was largely concerned in the prevention of frauds upon the
Government, examined about two thousand witnesses a year,
and saved the Government three or four millions of dollars. He
was afterwards retained also by the Navy Department. Much
of this employment was administrative rather than legal, and
such was the reputation he acquired as a'military organiser,
that, at the conclusion of the war, he was offered the impor¬
tant post of Military Governor of Virginia, one of the chief
lately insurgent States. This, however, he declined, prefer¬
ring the independence of a private career. He resumed his
practice as a lawyer, and was elected secretary to the In¬
surance Convention, a body formed by the Insurance Com¬
missioners of the several States with the view of harmonising
the laws and official rules of the States respecting such com¬
panies. Colonel Olcott is the author of a Consolidation Statute,
and of two large volumes of Reports on Insurance, which
have been very favourably reviewed. He is also the author
of a work on Genealogy, and is well known in America as a
journalist and pamphleteer on many subjects. He also holds
medals from scientific bodies. Now I would ask, is this a
man whom, if he were an Englishmen, Dr. Carpenter would
venture to publicly describe as a u gobemouche ? ” or, if he
did, would not the offensive attack be reprobated by public
and literary opinion? But putting aside the discourtesy,
look at the circular reasoning implied in this sort of judg¬
ment. A testifies to what B, C, and D. consider, without
examination, to be incredible. They therefore call A (as
they can’t doubt his honesty) credulous, or u gobemouche.”
Then E (Dr. Carpenter), who professes to examine,
wants to know what A’s testimony is worth. So he
goes to B, C, and D, and asks them what sort of a
person A is. Of course they say, “ Oh, credulous—a gobe-
mouche,” and then he gravely quotes this judgment, or
rather makes it his own, as a reason for discrediting A’s
testimony ! Hitherto I have spoken no word of disrespect of
Dr. Carpenter, unless to advert to the prejudices and pre¬
possessions under which we Spiritualists all believe him to
labour on one subject. I have always felt grateful to him
for the physiological information his books have imparted to
me, and for making pleasant reading of a hard study. I have
also thought he behaved not unfairly to Dr. Slade at the
time of our great trouble last year, and have regretted that
the introduction by other men of “ science ” of the new
method of scientific investigation by police-court prosecu¬
tions (to which Dr. Carpenter distinctly refused to be a party),
prevented his pursuit of inquiries, which I still verily believe
would have led to a change in his opinions, and to a very
different use of his influence. And no one has more reason
to regret this than Dr. Carpenter himself. He publicly
admitted (and the admission should be remembered in his
favour) that he had become interested in an investigation
with Slade, and had that investigation proceeded with
success, as it undoubtedly would have done, at Dr. Carpenter’s
own house, Dr. Carpenter might have had the honour of
anticipating the judgment, which, if recent intelligence
from Germany be correct, may very shortly rebuke the in¬
tolerance and stupidity that have disgraced this country.
But unfortunately Dr. Carpenter has missed his opportunity;
and preferring the prepossession of a lifetime, and the esti¬
mation of his scientific contemporaries to the enduring fame
that awaits Mr. Crookes, has devoted himself to a fresh
assault upon truth, and to misrepresentations of its upholders.
The Englishmen whom he has attacked are well able to defend
themselves, and one of them has already given Dr. Carpenter
cause to regret some parts of his article in Fraser. The
short account I now furnish of Col. Olcott may enable your
readers to judge whether Dr. Carpenter is more likely to be
justified in an ignorant contempt based upon prejudiced re¬
ports of an absent foreigner.
I may add that the reference to Col. Olcott is peculiarly
inappropriate, seeing that no one has gone further than that
gentleman in public and unsparing exposure and denuncia¬
tion of fraud, folly, and excess connected with American
Spiritualism—a course of conduct that has often brought
him into, collision with credulous enthusiasm,
Temple, Noyember 26th.
m
Birth.—Mrs. Wallis, wife of E. W. Wallis, trance medium, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end, of a son, on Saturday, November 24th.
Experiments on the Mesmerising of Animals.—Mr. C. C. Massey
will preside at the fortnightly meeting of the Dalston Association ot
Inquirers into Spiritualism, 63, Sigdon-road, Hackney Downs, London,
E., on Monday evening next, the 3rd instant, when Mr. W. H. Harri¬
son will read the second part of his paper on “ Experiments on the
Mesmerising of Animals,” and Dr. Carpenter’s communications upon
the subject will be brought before the meeting. The adjourned discus¬
sion will then take place. Ladies and gentlemen interested in the sub¬
ject are invited to attend. Doors open at 7.30 p.m.; chair to be taken
at 8.15 p.m. precisely. Those who have made experiments on the
mesmerising of animals are requested to send the particulars, with full
details, without delay, to Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street,
London. A few of the accounts already sent to him cannot be used,
because precise details, necessary for the proper verifying and under¬
standing of the cases, have been omitted.
258
THE SPIRITUALIST
THE SLATE-WRITING PHENOMENON AGAIN.
BY EPES SARGENT.
In one of my recent communications to you on the subject
of the slate-writing phenomenon, in the presence of the
medium, Charles E. Watkins, I referred to the experience of
Mr. Timaj'enis, a Greek gentleman, as corroborative of what
I myself had witnessed. He is connected with an “ educational
institute,” at Springfield, Mass., and Mrs. Louisa Andrews,
of that city, formerly a contributor to the London Spiritual
Magazine^ and who is favourably known to Spiritualists,
being informed of my wish to get further particulars, kindly
called on Mr. Timayenis. The following extract from her
letter to me, dated Springfield, November 11th, 1877, will
tell the rest :—
i{ I made inquiries as to where Mr. Timayenis was to be
found. Mr. Stebbins, the principal, informed me that he
made his home in Holyoke, but that I could see him any day
at the school. Last evening Mr. Timayenis, having heard
that I desired to see him, very kindly called upon me. He
is a fine manly-looking fellow, with clear eyes, strong white
teeth, and altogether such evidences of bright, all-pervading
life and health as are too rarely seen in Americans. He
corroborated fully the statement which we saw in print, and
which was published with his approval. Being entirely
sceptical, it was only by the urgent entreaties of a friend that
he was induced to call upon Watkins. On slips of paper,
which he afterwards rolled into pellets, Mr. Timayenis wrote
(making sure that the medium could by no possibility read
them) several names of non-existent people, but among them
that of his grandfather. He said to me, ‘ His is a very
singular and polysyllabic name, one that, if I should pro¬
nounce it for you several times, I think you would not be
able to repeat?’ Mr. Timayenis held the slate himself,
Watkins merely touching the corner of it, and keeping his
hand in sight and motionless. His grandfather’s name was
then written on the slate, and with it a communication in
perfectly correct Greek. Mr. Timayenis said to me, f It was
a singular thing; one I can never forget all my life; I cannot
account for it, but it was just as I have told you.’ He speaks
very good, though peculiar English, and his manner and
bearing are those of a gentleman.”
Will such accumulations of testimony as we are daily
getting in regard to this slate-writing phenomenon, have any
effect upon the minds of your incredulous physicists ? Or
shall we be told that it requires an “ expert ” to say whether
a clean slate was held out, and writing got independently
of human touch ? Well is it asked, What expert in any
science, art, or trade, is better qualified to testify to the
fact, than any shrewd, careful, cool-witted man, who can
tell his right hand from his left, has steady nerves, and a
sound mind in a sound body ?” This prattle about its requir¬
ing experts to satisfy one whether this purely simple
phenomenon of independent slate-writing is genuine or not,
is all uttered either in ignorance of the actual conditions, or
in a preposterous assumption of superior cleverness.
It is truly remarked by Dr. Carpenter:—u That while
ordinary evidence may very properly be admitted as adequate
proof of any ordinary occurrence, an extraordinary weight of
evidence would be rightly required to establish the credibility
of any statement that is in itself inherently improbable; the
strength of the proof required being proportional to the im¬
probability.”
Admitted. But who that has kept track of the well-
attested published proofs of independent slate-writing in the
light, under conditions precluding fraud, can deny that we
do most incontestably present “ an extraordinary weight of
evidence ?”
Let me assume that Mr. Serjeant Cox and Dr. Carpenter
are equally respectable as veracious witnesses. Now, what
is there in Dr. Carpenter’s training or experience to make
his testimony more trustworthy in regard to so simple a
phenomenon as that I have mentioned ? Plainly, the com¬
mon sense of those who read and weigh our facts, and who
consider the number of intelligent persons by whom they
are corroborated, will incontinently reject any theory that
would explain away those facts either by the supposition of
fraud, or by that of u prepossession and expectancy.”
I think it is Mr. A. R. Wallace who quotes from La
Nov. 30, 1877.
Place (Essai sur les Probabilites) the following pertinent re¬
mark, which I would commend to the attention of those
who say that any amount of testimony in support of what
seems to them a miraculous occurrence, must not be ad¬
mitted by scientific minds :—
a Any case, however apparently incredible, if it is a re¬
current case, is as much entitled to a fair valuation, under
the laws of induction, as if it had been more probable
beforehand.”
This independent slate-writing is a li recurrent case,”
attested as taking place under a great variety of conditions,
some the most perfect and irresistible, by men and women
of unquestioned ability, good sense, and veracity. May we
not now reasonably accept it as a fact of nature, placed
beyond all cavil and question by what Dr. Carpenter calls
“ an extraordinary weight of evidence
You may think I am hammering away at this slate-
writing phenomenon overmuch. But no. I take my stand
by it as a representative fact in phenomenal Spiritualism,
demonstrated and demonstrable, occurring in broad day¬
light, and frequently (as in my case and that of Mr.
Wetherbee) under all the conditions demanded by the most
exacting scepticism. From this fact we must not allow the
Carpenters, Lankesters, Stephenses, F. Harrisons, Huxleys,
and Tyndalls to get away by trying to give a bad name to
the stupendous subject we are investigating, calling it
“ Yankee conjuring,” u filth,” “a disgusting subject,” “ in¬
tellectual whoredom,” &c.
I am not surprised that there is so much wrath mingled
with their affectation of a purely scientific opposition; for
their language m&icaiQS personal feeling. They are as
bitter and scurrilous as Horky was towards Galileo. As my
excellent and gifted friend William White (author of the
best Life cf Swedetiborg) well remarks of these invectives :
u Such expressions of feeling are highly encouraging. Their
ferocity is begotten of fear.” The opinion which some of
these men u have converted into a dogmaf that there is no
future life, is consigned to the limbo of exploded errors if
our facts are scientifically established, like this fact of slate¬
writing. As Mr. White says: a We thus naturally come
in for the especial savagery,” indicated in the expressions I
have quoted. Go on, gentlemen! Give full vent to your
anger. Your time is short; and we have the patience of
those who know while you conjecture.
Boston, Mass., Not. 14th, 1877.
READINGS BY MR. AND MISS DIETZ.
This (Friday) evening, at the Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-
street, London, W., some readings and recitals will be given by Miss
Ella Dietz and Mr. Frank Dietz, who have done so much at various
times, to aid in entertainments inaugurated for the benefit of Spirit¬
ualism. Their recitals are of a refined and interesting character.
Last week we announced in error that the entertainment would be
given next Monday, but in reality it comes off to-night, and the following
is the programme :—Part I.—“Babie Bell ” (T. B. Aldrich), Miss Ella
Dietz ; “ Chiquita ” (Bret Harte), Mr. Frank Dietz; “ The May Queen ”
(Alfred Tennyson), Miss Ella Dietz; “Luke ” (Bret Harte), Mr. Frank
Dietz ; “ The Swineherd ” (Hans Christian Andersen), Miss Ella Dietz ;
“ The Northern Farmer ” (Alfred Tennyson), Mr. Frank Dietz. Part
II.—“ Romaunt of the Page ” (Mrs. E. B. Browning), Miss Ella Dietz ;
“The Society upon the Stanislaus” (Bret Harte), Mr. Frank Dietz;
“ Mother and Poet ” (Mrs. E. B. Browning), Miss Ella Dietz ; “ Dows
Flat” (Bret Harte), Mr. Frank Dietz; “Count Gismond ” (Robert
Browning), Miss Ella Dietz; “ The Lost Heir ” (Tom Hood), Mr.
Frank Dietz.
A considerable number of tickets has been sold, and we hope Spirit¬
ualists will do what they can to ensure a large attendance.
Professor Gregory’s “Animal Magnetism.”—Animal Magnetism;
or, Mesmerism and its Phenomena (William H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street), by the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., is a reprint
of a work that will do much to redeem its subject from most unmerited
neglect, and even occasional obloquy. Professor Gregory’s name carries
with it all the weight of his unquestioned talents, besides the prestige of
his position as Professor of Chemistry in the University of Edinburgh.
In face of such credentials, it is in vain for fifteenth-rate apothecaries
to smile at the array of marvellous facts contained in the volume. They
have long ago told us we must believe them and not our senses; but
when our own senses are confirmed by the lucid scientific testimony of
such a man as Professor Gregory, we accept the facts, and doubt the
omniscient apothecaries. The book is a most valuable one; and Mr.
Harrison has spared no trouble or expense to make it worthy of its
ubject and author. It is a model of typography, and everything that
makes a book pleasant to read.—Kensington News, Nov. 24th.
Nov. 30, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
259
FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
Throughout the whole history of Spiritualism, those
phenomena have in the long run been obtained with power,
which at first presented themselves only in weakness, and
when the medium was perfectly happy in consequence of
being surrounded by good conditions And throughout the
history of Spiritualism the phenomena at first obtained in
darkness or in gloom have, as time passed away, been more
or less perfectly presented in the light. All the phenomeni
are interlinked, and evolved through different mediums in
somewhat the same order of sequence, in obedience to
irrevocable law. Raps and table-tiltings are usually the
beginning of physical mediumship; voices in the dark and
materialised hands which carry objects in the dark, and the
presence of a power which can release the medium from the
securest bonds, mark the next stage; then the hands and the
faces which produce the voices begin to show themselves from
cabinet apertures, or from under a table, or anywhere where
shade prevails; and lastly, we have the presentation, by the
assistance of a cabinet, of full forms robed in white, usually
bearing a strong resemblance to the medium, although
sometimes the medium has been scientifically demonstrated
to be inside the cabinet at the time the. figure was outside;
and, in rare instances, the medium and forms have been
seen together. Sometimes the medium’s form, released
from the securest bonds, and transfigured, has been presented
in what is called a “ form manifestation.” All, however,
are not of this nature, some being true materialisations, as
Mr. Charles Blackburn pointed out last week, to the amuse¬
ment of the company, when he asked how a living baby
could be a materialisation of a full-grown medium.
Now we are beginning to enter upon the stage—expected
and hoped for by the few who had long closely studied the
facts—of the abolition of the cabinet; and shall probably
before long see in the light, in the homes of private investi¬
gators, two living human forms, where only one, visible to
mortal eye, had existed before. And it should be remembered
that this will be but the making visible to the eye of some
of the powers which for years have produced physical effects
in the dark, while the medium has been held hand and foot.
Some of the most remarkable of the more recent phe¬
nomena have been produced through the mediumship of Dr.
Monck; others through that of Mr. Williams;' others
through that of Mr. Eglinton; others again through
that of Miss Kate Cook. Of late, too, we have been told
that Mr. John Haxby, of 8, Sandall-road, Camden Town, is
getting powerful materialisations; in a short time we will
examine and publish some of the facts. Mr. Olive, of 15,
Ainger-terrace, Primrose-hill, tells us that he has seen a
bearded form appear through Mr. Haxby’s mediumship, and
that he saw that the beard grew from the skin, and was not
a false one, whereas Mr. Haxby has no beard. Some years
ago the earlier phenomena through Mr. Haxby’s medium-
ship were described in these pages, and since then he has
been developing them in semi-privacy.
MESMERIC HEALING.
The foUowiog clearly written certificate as to the power of healing
by laying on of hands, is by Mr. George Heaton, Barrister-at-Law,
Easton Rectory, Wickham Market, Suffolk, and has been handed to
us for publication by Mr. James Regan, of 2, Vernon-place, Blooms¬
bury, London
November 26, 1877.
I certify that my daughter, aged twelve, was brought round by the
mesmeric powers of Mr. James Regan, a few weeks ago, from a com¬
plication of maladies, including the acutest form of liver disease,
which had reduced her to the point at which her life was absolutely
despaired of. She had been treated, during seventeen weeks, by no
less than four legally quali6ed medical practitioners, whose best skill
—as I am bound to assume—resulted in the conclusion that there was
no hope of saving her life. She was in a condition of extreme
emaciation, constant and agonising pain, and deprived of all healthy
sleep, when Mr. Regan first saw her. The first result of his mesmeric
influence was a blessed sleep ; and the consequence of that influence,
exerted at intervals during twelve days, is that the patient is now on
the fair road to recovery. Considering that acute and incomprehended
internal diseases are even more common than the cases of failure on
the part of legally qualified physicians to cure them, I have thought
it my duty to give, above my signature, the above statement.
Geo. Heaton.
“LONDON, CHATHAM AND DOVER.”
BY FLORENCE MARRYAT.
Pitchy darkness; foggy grimness ;
Torrents of descending rain ;
Through the smoke, and smell, and di mness,
Thus I see the place again.
Trains in-coming, trains out-speeding ;
Passengers imploring aid ;
Busy porters never heeding
Hoarse demands for luggage strayed.
Whilst along the lines, the vanguard
Of the public papers run—
r Daily ! Graphic ! Evening Standard,"
11 Punch, sir! Judy—Echo—Fun"
In the cheerless room for waiting,
Furnished in a style severe,
Weary travellers, tired of “ baiting,”
Criticise each other’s gear.
Whilst th’ attendant round them hovers,
All expectant of their cash,
Opening door, a head discovers,
“ Any lady here for 1 ”
On the platform, patter, patter,
Ceaseless falls the drenching rain ;
Ding-dong ! ding-dong! noise and clatter ;
“ Bless me ! Henry! that’s our train.’’
Hurry scurry—talking, rushing,
Through the smoke and fog and clay :
Clang of bells, and porters pushing,
Off they go upon their way!
Backward, then, in mental mut’ny,
Turn I to the vacant room—
Heedless of attendant’s scrut’ny,
Heedless of the cold and gloom.
What is this that rises o’er me,
As the bustle disappears ?
Why should the old scenes before me,
Smite as with a sense of tears ?
’Tis the bridge that, stretching over
From the vulgar to sublime,
Makes a cabbage kin to clover,
Links the tragic^with the mime ;
Which transfigures this wet planking
Till like polished oak it gleams,
And makes coarsest tones take rank in
Angels’ whispers, heard in dreams.
So that, weighed down by the feeling
Pressing on my breast like stone,
I am fain to —sobbing, kneeling—
Weep my heart out here alone :
Lay my head against the leather,
Press my lips upon the floor,
Where we walked and talk’d together,
Where we walk and talk no more.
Here, where my heart gauged the bouudings
Of a heart I deemed as true,
Every common mean surrounding’s
Glorified by thoughts of you !
And I lose the outward grimnefs :
See no darkness—hear no rain ;
Midst the fog, and noise, and dimness,
You are here with me again !
Next Thursday evening, December 6 h, at the ordinary meeting of
the Psychological Society, at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square,
London, there will be a discussion “ On the Alleged Phenomena of
‘ Slate Writing,’ as described by Mr. A. R. Wallace in his letter to The
Spectator (6th October, 1877).” Also the adjourned debate on the
President’s paper, “The Psychology of Wit and Humour.”
260
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 30, 1877.
(Eortesponuence,
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.']
MB. CALDEk’s ADDRESS.
Sir,—As another member of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, will you allow me, after reading Mr. Newton Crosland’s
letter in your present number, also to express the regret I felt at the
time, at a few words which Mr. Calder made use of in the course of his
beautiful and teaching address at the opening soirie.
I was afraid they would give pain to, and be misunderstood by, both
some who heard them, and others who would read them afterwards.
Mr. Calder doubtless intended what he said to be simply the ex¬
pression of his own individual feelings and opinions, although he
was speaking as President of the Association at the commencement of
a new season, I think he would be the last to wish it understood
that the Association and its members endorsed all the views he
expressed.
The Association has still to lament the absence of some old mem¬
bers, simply from a misunderstanding of the real position taken from
the first on these matters. It was therefore undesirable that anything
should be said which unintentionally could be construed into an official
expression of either a dogmatic or an anti-dogmatic position assumed
by the Association as a body, and it would be a great pity if that old
discussion, now happily at rest, should be raised again.
Edwd. T. Bennett.
Richmond, Surrey, November 25.
Sir,—Disclaiming all desire for theological contention, I ask a small
space to notice Mr. Newton Crosland’s strictures, in your paper of the
23rd, on my recent address. I am sorry to engage in controversy of
any kind, but his unfairness interrupts silence. He charges me with
irreverence for Jesus Christ, and, to suit his purpose, suppresses the j
fact that I styled that personage “ the greatest of historical teachers, the j
medium Jesus Christ” (not simply “that medium Jesus Christ,” as Mr.
Crosland has it). He quotes part of a statement, sets it up in an offen- j
sive manner, and uses it to my prejudice. To my mind, real veneration !
and reverence for Jesus consists more in the sincere and honest pursuit !
of His counsels, than in professions of faith in Him, however noisy and j
exalted.
Nor was it from any design or desire' to “ misinterpret Christianity ”
that 1 ventured upon the address; but on the contrary, with the
strongest motives for upholding Jesus’s method in its purity and simpli¬
city, being firmly convinced, by lessons from personal experience, of the j
necessity of separating it from dogmas which frustrate and paralyse.
Mr. Crosland very unnecessarily, and, I may add, unjustifiably, I
introduces to your readers “two dull impostors” from among his
acquaintance, to strengthen his position; but I beg to say that with
such respectable allies I have no particle of sympathy. The sentiments j
abounding in my address are certainly more in harmony with primitive j
Christianity than “modern thought;’’ nor do I anywhere perceive the i
most distant attempt to “ supersede Christianity; ” but I find a distinct |
expression of agreement with Jesus’s method. I affirm, therefore, that (
the philosophy of the address is founded on that of Jesus, and based on ! i
principles similar to those which He uttered, and which may indeed be J
fairly called His own. There was accordingly no “ slight ” on true 11
Christianity, but a marked recognition and approval of it. When, I
therefore, Mr. Crosland connects by insinuation my address with
materialism, and other irrelevant amplifications comprehending reincar- L
nation, I must take the liberty of saying that, until he brings to his aid j i
more accuracy, and a larger measure of charity for his opponents than 11
he appears to have at his command, his extensive acquaintance with |,
Christianity, and his long experience in Spiritualism, .bear, in my ji
humble opinion, a poor quality of fruit. j1
Then as to that “ unverified ” thing which has startled Mr. Crosland, j ]
I repeat, without the least alarm or hesitation, that it is not belief in 11
any person, it is not faith in a physician that cures: Everybody, except, j ]
perhaps, my critic, should perceive that the curative power resides not i,
in faith, nor in any amount of it, but in the remedy. I might have 11
great faith in one of the Queen’s physicians, but if he gave me a wrong |1
medicine it might prove fatal, while the right one would be effective; so ! ]
that the remedial agent is wholly outside and independent of faith. And j i
as with health so with morals, the medicine for morals being the culture j j
of virtuous principles. This is the truth of truths, the culture of virtuous j|
principles ; and they who are wise will make it their chief duty. |i
Having said thus much, very reluctantly, in defence of an address for i ]
which I alone am responsible ; I beg to add that I do not see what I \
benefit our Association would derive from the protest of one of its mem- I1
hers against the utterances of another. In our midst are opinions of all I]
shades of colour: we live in an age of perfect toleration, and are free to j,
express our thoughts: we strive to throw light on all that relates to li
humanity : seeking truth wherever it may be found, our attitude towards !
one another should at all times consist of dispassionate consideration.
If Mr. Crosland possesses a better light than others on any subject, by
all means let us have it, and I venture to think no one will attempt to
hinder its exhibition with any protest, solemn or otherwise.
Alex. Calder.
Nov. 25th, 1877.  
MR. MAITLAND’S NEW BOOK.
Sir,—In expressing my warm thanks to you and Mr. Massey for j
the intelligent and appreciative notice of The Soul, and how it found |
me, in your last number, I shall be glad if you will allow me to correct I
what seems to me a somewhat mistaken view of the political purport
of the communications received by me, [
Yery far, indeed, was it from the purpose of England and Islam
to “ aid in perpetuating cruel and oppressive misrule ” in the East or
elsewhere. On the contrary, the express object of the utterances
delivered through me was the prevention of such misrule in the future,
by means of such interference by England in the affairs of Turkey as
would render supreme her influence for good, and exclude that of any
other power. For of no other power could it be said that its interests
and those of Turkey coincided. England alone could act unselfishly, in
so far as a loss to Turkey could not be a gain to her.
There is, however, a larger and higher aspect of the question. It
was shown to me with unmistakeable distinctness, and wholly without
anticipation on my part, that England is recognised in the spiritual
spheres as holding in the modern world the place occupied by Israel
in the ancient world ; in that, with all her grossness and other short¬
comings, she is among nations the chief, perhaps the only, representa¬
tive of God, the soul, and the conscience, and that it is through her
that the world is to be carried on to that new and higher develop¬
ment in its spiritual consciousness which is to be the realisation of the
Christianity, not of the churches, but of Christ. To this end, it
is necessary that England hold herself aloof, as a “peculiar people,”
from entangling alliances with the representatives of the present
materialistic rigime of Europe. For thus only will she be free to
accomplish her own development, and become to the nations the
Messiah so sorely needed.
It has been shown to me, also, that it is by virtue far less of her
physical powers than of her spiritual vitality, that she will be enabled
to survive in the coming melee of the nations, and fulfil the higher
destiny in store for her.
Under the chilling influences of an alliance, such as that projected
with Russia, the least developed of European powers, England’s chances
of attaining the perfection which is her due would be reduced to a
minimum. The same may be predicted of European alliances generally.
For Europe is too deeply sunk in the materialisms, either of Atheism
or Sacerdotalism, for alliances with it to be other than deadly poison
to the higher life of England. Her true sympathies are with the
prophetic, intuitional, and teachable people of the East, of whom so
vast a number have, in so remarkable a manner, been brought under
her sway, and between whom and herself the empire of the Sultan is,
as it were, the umbilical cord.
Such is the direction in which the utterances in my books point, and
in order to announce and promote which I have so unexpectedly been
made the mouthpiece of the controlling influences of the system. We
are a “Bible people,” and are living in “ Bible times.” But now, as
of old, it is necessary that the spiritual vision be open in order to recog¬
nise the fact.
I shall be glad if you, or any of your readers, can inform me whether
any communication at all resembling that given to me respecting The
Immaculate Conception has been received before. For myself, it is
the loftiest revelation ever made concerning the purpose and scheme of
creation, and one that satisfactorily solves all the difficulties, and ac¬
counts for all the misapprehensions of theology, while it gives the
noblest conception of the end of existence possible to be imagined.
Edward Maitland.
Paris, Nov. 20th.  
MESMERISM.
Sir,—It may be considered as a great misfortune that mesmeric
practitioners should be continually obliged to trouble themselves and
waste their time in answering the puerile objections of opponents, who
refuse to acknowledge the efficacy of mesmerism because the modus
operandi cannot be satisfactorily explained.
Mesmerisers, when desired to state the why and wherefore of the
power of mesmerism to produce sleep, to alleviate and cure disease,
should content themselves by repeating the very lucid and satisfactory
answer given by Argan, in Moliere’s Le Malade Imaginaire, who,
when catechised as to the modus operandi of opium in the production
of sleep, replied,
“ Quia est in eo
Virtue dormitiva,
Cujus est natura
Sensus assoupire.”
And, having thus settled the question in choice dog-Latin, might proceed
with the more grateful and useful task of treating as many aches, pains,
and diseases, as their own health and strength may permit them to
attempt.
It is certainly very difficult to understand the so-called explanations
of the opponents of mesmerism, when they attribute certain remark¬
able results to such evidently inadequate causes as imagination, expecta¬
tion, monotony, and dominant ideas. People who have never studied
the subject, nor even seen a single case of the true mesmeric coma, may
certainly be pardoned for supposing that “monotony,” for instance,
might produce sleep, for so, in truth, it might, were the state induced
anything like what is generally understood as that of natural sleep.
But when, as in the true mesmeric coma, such remarkable phenomena
present themselves at the same time as an abnormal condition of the
eye, insensibility to pain, a temporary suspension of the senses of
feeling, taste, hearing, and smell, except in sympathy with the mes-
meriser, and yet with—as in many cases—an actual exaltation of the
mental faculties, when, I repeat, all these phenomena present themselves
in the same patient, how monotony, or even the now celebrated
“ dominant ideas ” theory, can account for such remarkable results,
would require much greater ingenuity to explain than I suspect any of
the opponents of mesmerism are likely to possess,
The above phrases—such as imagination,” &c., &c., contemptuously
brought forward to explain the modus operandi of mesmerism, are
generally the pet weapons of offence wielded by certain knights-errant,
who may be styled the Don Quixotes of science, who run a tilt against
Nov. 30, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
261
any discovery—provided it be unpopular—and thus earn a cheap repu¬
tation with the million, who innocently take them at their own valuation,
and regard them as their natural guides and instructors as to what they
should or should not believe, and look up to them as their staunch pro¬
tectors against every kind of delusion.
With regard to <c the imagination” theory, I think that Mr. Harrison,
in his interesting lecture on “ The Effects of Mesmerism on Animals,”
has scarcely done justice to the cases of the two horses, mesmerised and
relieved by Mr. H. S. Thompson. I must observe that the two cases
occurred in the same stable, and the subsidence of the inflammation in
both cases immediately followed the mesmeric treatment; in fact, the
relief afforded was evidently not only posf hoc, but a,] so propter hoc, and
was quite as satisfactory as if it had been produced by any orthodox
medical treatment.
Whether the animals were in a state of uexpectancy” of such results
I will not undertake either to assert or deny, nor am I prepared to guess
what were the ideas dominant in their heads at the time of the
experiments. J. James.
Tottenham, November, 1877.
MR. guppy’s “DEVIL.”
Sir,—I feel inclined to send you a few lines in respect to one point in
the advocacy of Spiritualism, and the dissemination of a knowledge of
its phenomena, which frequently strikes me with astonishment.
That is, the want of discretion, prudence, and good taste, involved
both in the private recital of some classes of manifestations to inquirers
and sceptics, and in their publication in the spiritualistic press.
One evening lately I was present when a gentleman narrated a
variety of apparently foolish and unmeaning, not to say “ idiotic ”
manifestations, to persons wholly strange to the subject. The only
result was a query as to the sanity of the narrator. The consequence
would be a prejudice against and an obstacle to the reception of
,f Spiritualism ” in any shape.
Much that appears in print is also, I think, open to similar objection.
But the special cause of my now wishing to call attention to the subject
is the article entitled “An unexpected visitor—a Devil,” in your last
number. If I were advocating the cause of “Christianity”in a heathen
country and carrying on a paper circulating among the resident
“ Christians,” and intended to promote its acceptance by an unbeliev¬
ing public, I do not think I should occupy my columns with stories of
low public-house life in London, even though all the facts might be true,
and even though all the actors might be “ baptised Christians,” who
would be buried in the “ sure and certain hope,” according to the service
of their faith.
In the same way I think no useful purpose is answered, but quite
the contrary, by the indiscriminate publication of facts, merely because
they are facts, and the actors Spiritualists.
These considerations apply not merely to the “ low ” and “ frivolous ”
sphere, but also to high and refined manifestations and communications.
By all means record and observe everything. But it seems to me that
a wise reticence might often be a wise course, and this without being
in any way fairly open to the charge of withholding or concealing truth.
With regard to the particular article I have referred to, my remarks
would apply still more strongly to the edition of it in The Spiritual
Magazine.
I hope, though you may not agree with me, that you will consider the
subject a fair one for expression of opinion. Edwd. T. Bennett.
Nov. 25.  
SLATE-WRITING PHENOMENA.
Sir,—While the matter is fresh in my memory I wish to record the
facts of a seance held last night, in a private room of a private house,
in the presence of four invited guests and three members of my own
family, besides Mr. Eglinton, the medium—in all eight persons, three
of whom had never witnessed similar manifestations. There was no
question of money, and, I venture to say, no motive for deception, nor
any possibility of making it successful.
I am quite aware of the common habit of considering all persons who
differ from us in opinion as either knaves or fools—fools if they believe
what we think absurd, or knaves if they only pretend to believe it;
but I assert my entire faith in the honesty, and my knowledge of the
intelligence, of every person present, whose names I will give to any
interested inquirer.
The room in which we sat is about fifteen feet square, on the ground
floor, with two doors, one opening into the hall—the other a glass door,
leading to the garden; there is no window. This garden door was
securely fastened by a large blind made to exclude the light. The other
door was locked by myself, and the key given to one of my visitors.
There is no closet, and we saw and knew perfectly every article in the
room. I state all this particularly to anticipate the objections of the
pupils of Maskelyne and Cook, and similar prestidigitators.
At first we sat round a table, while the gas was gradually lowered to
perfect darkness, and then all joined hands. I held the medium’s left
hand, and a young lady of my family held his right. The table tipped
in different directions, answered questions, and was raised entirely from
the floor to the distance of about a foot. Then two musical boxes, a
small and large one, which were upon it, were wound up and set going.
We heard the key taken from the table and the small one wound, and
later the large one wound with the lever and ratchet. First one flew
round the room while playing, with a motion as rapid as a swallow ;
then the other, and the head of every person was touched with both.
They were at times both in the air together, playing alternately, or both
at a time; and both were stopped in the midst of an air—started,
stopped, at the request or command of those present, just as if a watch
should stop, go on, &c. There is no machinery to stop either musical
box, and, as I said, we were all holding each other’s hands.
All this time the voice of Joey, who had politely saluted every one
i present, was heard, and once the perfectly different voice of Ernest.
After a series of very satisfactory physical manifestations, Joey told us
j to light the gas and prepare for materialisations. A black curtain was
| drawn across the room opposite the entrance, and we sat in a row, so
that two or three chairs were against the door. There was sufficient
| light to enable us to see the whole room. Mr. Eglinton took a chair in
\ | front of the curtain. Within a minute a figure of a woman, fully
y draped in white, opened the curtains at the centre, came out before us,
11 took the medium by the hand, and led him inside. Thus we saw at the
11 same time the medium and the materialised form. Then came the tall
11 and splendid figure of Abdallah, clothed from head to foot in a profusion
[ j of white drapery, which swept the floor like a ladies’ train, and was so
\ i fine and flexible as to reveal every line of his perfect form—perfect
! except the absence of one arm below the elbow. He held a long
i i glittering dagger in his hand, and wore jewels on his breast and fore-
(i head ; he did not speak, but bowed repeatedly, low and gracefully, and,
j! advancing to the centre of the room, stood under the gas pendant, so
j j as to show us that he was at least four inches taller than the medium.
11 After he had made his last bow to us a female form, thickly draped in
/1 grey, came out, went to Mrs. Nichols, took her hand, and, bending over
(i her, pressed her lips to her forehead.
j I Then came the lithe, slender form of Joey, who not only appeared but
) j talked'with us familiarly as a friend of the family, and did, moreover,
|! what I am about to solemnly record, to every item of which I am
) j willing to make oath, and which was in the sight and hearing of six
(! other persons, each of whom would give his or her sworn testimony. I
| ] beg that the reader will carefully follow in every point what I am about
|! to describe.
(i After paying his compliments to us again, on his visible appearance,
\ ] Joey went to the mantle-shelf and took from it two new school slates
); which had never been used. These he brought to me, and placed in
(| my hands, asking me to rub them clean. I carefully rubbed both all
)! over. Then he came and took them from me ; then he found a piece of
) | twine, with which to tie them together. “But I want a piece of slate
l\ pencil,” said he; “Where is the pencil?” There was none in the
j I room, “ Floy,” he said to a young lady sitting next me, “haven’t you
) | a piece of slate pencil ? ” “ Yes, Joey, but it is in my pocket in my
(i room, at the top of the house.” This was three stories above us.
“Wait a minute,” said Joey, “I will find somebody to get it,” and,
1 i holding the slate out horizontally near the gaslight, in the centre of
! the room, we all heard a hard body fall upon it. Joey took the piece
) | of pencil, put the end in his mouth, and we distinctly heard him bite
(I o a piece of it. Wanting, as "will be seen, two bits of pencil, he yet
( more audibly and visibly bit off another piece, which he laid upon one
) of the slates, and then he put the two together, and then said, “ Doctor,
( get ready to lend me your knife.” I took it from my pocket, and
) opened it. He tied the two slates together neatly and securely, came
) for my knife, took it from my hand, cut off the twine, and then shook
j the slates, so that we could hear the bits of pencil inside between them,
j “Now for some sealing-wax,” said Joey. There was some in the
! I room, but he got a stick as he did the pencil, went to the gas pendant,
j I pulled it down, put the stick up under the globe, set it alight, and
j i neatly sealed the strings to the end and side of the slates. “ Now,
j j doctor,” he said, “bi’ing forward your chair.” I advanced it towards
! | the centre of the room, and sat down. Joey brought a chair from
ij | near the curtain, and sat in it facing me. He held one corner of the
I I united slates with his right thumb and fingers ; I the other corner
i j | with my left. He held out his left hand palm upward, and said, “ Now
j) | lay your hand in mine while the writing is done.” I laid the fingers
i of my right hand upon a soft, warm hand, with only a thin tissue, like
||| the finest lawn, between them. “Now, listen for the writing.” It
11! began, and I could both feel and hear it, and all with quick ears could
j|j hear.
At the end of perhaps ninety seconds, three little raps announced
(i that the writing Was ended. “ Now, doctor,” said Joey, “ hold these
) I slates in both hands ”—placing them as he desired—“ until the seance
) j is ended.” I held them very tight. Ernest then came and made us
(j a short address, and said, “ When we are gone cut the cord, and read
j | the messages written. I think you will find at least three languages.”
)! Both Ernest and Joey bade us all “ Good night—God bless
j (j you! ” and in a few moments we heard the three raps—signal for
!) I turning on the gas fully; and then I cut the cords that bound the
) | slates, after showing the seals to all, and found a short message written
v j on one of them in the handwriting of an old friend of three of us, who
I j 1 can all swear to his signature. On the other slate was a longer
n message, beautifully written, in an entirely different hand, and con-
|) i taining, as will be seen, “ at least three languages.”
|; i The shorter message was :—
ijj “I am still as active as ever in my work, and people will know
j) | more of me in a short time. “ J. B. Ferguson.”
! i This is the Dr. Ferguson, a clergyman of Nashville, Tennessee,
Hi U.S.A., who came to England, in 1862, with the Brothers Davenport
| (I and Mr. Fay, and who died in America about seven years ago. No one
|) j of his English friends will fail to recognise his signature.
| (j The other message was as follows :—
) I “ That communications can come from the spirit world is an un-
| i deniable fact; but for you to be the recipients of these communications,
( conditions most beneficial to our purposes are needed. These con-
j) | ditions are :—A healthful body and mind, pure living, and, above all,
( a clear conscience. With these necessary elements of what is most
j) j needed in yourselves, then you may dare approach us-r-not before. Do
! j | not longer be tainted with the insanity, as the Roman, or rather Greek,
! I proverb calls it, with which the gods afflict men when they design to
In ruin them—
! ‘ Orav \s Aatp av d.v5pi iropSvvt] /eaica Tov vovvyfSXaipe itpHrov.*
I ! “ Au revoir. Dieu vous benit tout,,}
262
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Nov. 30, 1877.
It has taken me at least twenty times as long to copy these messages
as was employed in writing them.
I have completely forgotten the little Greek I ever knew, and, as the
slates were new, and the writing less clear than if they had been used
or properly prepared, I may have made errors in the transcription.
But there the words are on the slates. How came Dr. Fei’guson’s well
known hand on one, and how the English, Greek, and French upon
the other? The medium never saw Dr. Ferguson or his writing, and
while it was being done we heard him moving and breathing like one
in a nightmare on the sofa behind the curtain.
Will Dr. Carpenter or Prof. Tyndall explain the mystery ? They may
say that we were all hallucinated. But what of the slates ? They are
not insane. And there is the writing, which any one who chooses to
do so may read ; and here is my testimony, backed by that of six un¬
impeachable witnesses as to the circumstances of its accomplishment.
T. L. Nichols, M.D.
32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W., Nov. 26, 1877.
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY?
Sir,—Mr. Pearce misunderstands the intention of my letter in your
issue of the 9th, which was intended to show that Mr. Massey’s figure
did not point to the success of Bosy Cross, and that the figure was
wrongly set, even if the equation of time was used in the same way as
by Mr. Massey, and which I distinctly stated was not necessary.
Omitting to deduct the five minutes from the siderial time at noon was
an accidental omission of mine. This, however, does not alter the
signification of the figure.
Mr. Pearce’s eulogy of the original Zadkiel can be best analysed by
a careful examination of his Handbook, Vol. II., Part I., viz., “ The
Prince of Wales’s Nativity,” and his judgment thereon.
“ Baphael.”
79, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C.
Sir,—Allow me to thank Mr. Massey for his letter in this week’s
Spiritualist; but he does not appear to thoroughly understand my
Ephemeris’, and for what time they are calculated. To make this clear
to him, and others who may be in a fog, I think I cannot do better than
give the title-page verbatim, as published for 1878, and which applies
equally to previous years. It runs thus:—‘‘Baphael’s Astronomical
Ephemeris of the Planet’s Places for 1878, and Tables of Houses for
London ; containing the Longitudes of all the Planets daily, and their
Latitudes and Declinations for every third day, with the Lunar and
principal Mutual Aspects for every day, &c. Computed for the
Meridian of Greenwich. Mean - time observed throughout. No
‘ equation of times ’ or other correction is necessary to be used with
this Ephemeris,”—which, I hope, will make all matters clear.
All that is necessary to be done in erecting a figure is to add or
subtract the difference between noon and time of the figures, to or
from the sidereal time for that day, according as the time of the figure
is a.m. or p.m.; for instance, if a figure be wanted for 10b. a m.,
subtract two hours from the sidereal time ; if 4h. p.m j add four hours.
For fuller explanation, see my Guide to Astrology.
Mr. Massey having explained why he brought horse-racing to the
fore, I think the letter of “A Beader” quite unnecessary; and what
Lilly has to do with racing is to me a mystery. The original figure
drawn by Mr. Massey I have seen, and this fully confirms what he says
in the third paragraph of his letter. E. Baphael.
79, St. Paul’s Churchyard.
Sir,—I am glad that you have opened your columns to a discussion of
that occult subject, astrology. I can testify to the wonderful accuracy
of its revelations and predictions in my own career. On one occasion
I discovered through astrology that a lady was being ill-used by her
husband. Although I was very intimate with the family, I had not the
slightest idea that any serious matrimonial differences existed between
the husband and wife, until, to my great astonishment, their horoscopes
revealed to me the tragic existence which the lady had been leading for
a long period. She is a very refined and cultivated woman, and she
carefully concealed her sorrows from me until they were disclosed by an
astrologer, who, I may observe, knew nothing whatever of the “ natives,”
directly or indirectly. I was consequently enabled to interfere for the
protection of the lady, and the decision of a court of law, I am happy to
say, released her effectually from her state of misery. Like every other
human pursuit, astrology is far from being infallible, and Zadkiel some¬
times makes the most ridiculous blunders; his weather prophesies are
particularly absurd, and ought to be abandoned. In quoting from
Zadkiel’s Almanac for 1877, “ Aldebaran,’’ apparently with a motive,
stops short at an interesting passage respecting the Busso-Turkish war,
where Zadkiel goes on to predict ‘‘ that nothing short of a miracle
appears to be able to save the Ottoman from expulsion from Europe.”
Nevertheless, in his Almanac for 1878, Zadkiel seems inclined to favour
the Turkish cause. Can this modification of view be owing to an
inclination to humour popular opinion ? Directly an astrologer allows
his own predilections and prejudices to influence his intepretation of a
horoscope, ho ceases to be a trustworthy guide, and this is probably the
reason why so much of the. prophesying in almanacs is so fallacious.
Another interesting question has frequently occurred to an inquiring
mind, viz., Can astrology be reconciled to Christianity and Spiritualism?
At the first glance, reconciliation of these diverse potentialities seems
i upracticable ; yet, on mature reflection, I think it quite possible to
discern a strong bond of harmony between them. Astrology is not
opposed to Spiritualism, if we can believe that astral and planetary
aspects supply conditions through which spirits act upon material
creations, and astrology need not be a foe to Christianity when we clearly
understand that if astrology discloses some of the causes of blessings
and catastrophes; the proper office of Christianity is not to originate
the accidents and events of life, but to enable us to bear them religiously
when they do happen to us. Thus an astrologer may predict the occur¬
rence of a benefit or a disaster, but the effect of either incident upon the
Christian will be modified by the faith which influences his soul. Per¬
haps, however, a thorough astrologer would tell us that a man cannot
become a Christian unless his “aspects’’are favourable. We could
only meet this assertion by pointing out the possible miraculous
agencies at work in God’s dealings with mankind, and that Christianity
is an exposition of the power of God under conditions in occasionally
subverting the laws of any science, however positive or occult.
This consideration at once introduces an element of uncertainty into
the realm of human knowledge. Bo it so : human knowledge is bound
to be uncertain; nevertheless, the mind of man seeks to disown this
inevitable uncertainty, and flies for refuge to positive philosophy in
religion and science. What is the result ? Such feeble products as
Comteism, Darwinism, Carpenterism, and endless rubbish of a similar
kind, which can only imperfectly explain one-half of the phenomena of
creation, and must ignore the other half. What then is the enlightened
mind to do? It must accept the known at the same time that it enter¬
tains a limitless belief in the unknown. Newton Crosland.
Blackheath, November 26th, 1877.
Sir,—As several of your readers have expressed a desire for my
postal address, I herewith append it. I wish it, however, to be dis¬
tinctly understood that I am not a “ professional ” astrologer, and do
not advise on questions which may be sent me. Those who do not
care to study the science for themselves, but simply wish for decisions
upon various matters affecting them, must consultl< Baphael,” or other
gentlemen who undertake such tasks. With a view to assisting novices
I shall be at all times glad to reply to their inquiries, as I know that
difficulties present themselves to beginners, which can soon be cleared
up by those having had some little experience. Of course an addressed
stamped envelope must accompany the applications. I cannot do
better than conclude by desiring, in the words of the author of
Astrology, as It Is, all those who “may wish to penetrate further into
the secrets of this ancient science to obtain the Tetrabilos of Ptolemy
(translated by Ashmaud), the Primum Mobile of Placidus de Titus
(translated by Cooper), the Defectio Geniturarum and the Opus Refor-
matum of Partridge, the Astrological Dictionary of Wilson, and though
last, not least, the astrological works of Baphael and Z idkiel ; for
from these books much useful information may be gained. But let
them avoid the works of Gadbury, Colley, Sibley, Whalley, and all
that host of well-intentioned but badly-instructed astrologers.”
Aldebaran.
5, Richmond Hill, Ulverston, Lancashire.
SPIRITUAL LITERATURE IN LIVERPOOL.
Sir,—Since the disappearance of the Psychological Society, and its
public Sunday services, numerous complaints have reached me of the
difficulty persons experience in obtaining the weekly periodicals of the
movement, and other progressive literature. For the information of
those who are anxious to get their papers regularly, they can obtain
them from Mr. Metcalfe, stationer, Lime-street, or at the newspaper
stand, St. George’s Hall steps, every Saturday morning. J. C.
A CASE OE DISTRESS.
Sir,—-Will you kindly allow me a small space in your paper to appeal
to our kind friends to assist me to raise a small sum of money to help a
poor family, a Mr. and Mrs. Tann and three children, living st 14,
Green-street, Paddington, very respectable people. I was told they
were in trouble. I went to see them on Wednesday. There lay in two
little beds in a small room, but clean, two poor children, at the point of
death, and a third also under medical treatment. The doctor told the
mother the children must have plenty of nourishment, such as beef-tea,
arrowroot, new milk, with a little brandy in it. How are they to have
these things unless we do something for them ? The husband only earns
a pound a week, and out of that they are paying twelve shillings to the
doctor, leaving only eight to pay for their room and keep five. She told
me they could live comfortably when they had not the doctor to pay.
I went again on Thursday to take what little I could spare, and one of
the dear children had just passed to spirit-life. The poor woman had
gone out to pawn the only thing she could spare—and that was her wed¬
ding ring—to get nourishment for the other two. If friends will kindly
help, send to me. Agnes Maltby.
16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, London, W.
An article, by Mr. A. B. Wallace, on Dr. Carpenter’s misrepre¬
sentations, will appear in to-morrow’s number of Fraser’s Magazine.
The subscriptions of those who join the National Association of
Spiritualists during the present month, will clear all their expenses of
membership to the end of 1878.
Mr. T. P. Barkas, F.G S,, will give an address to the members of
the Newcastle Psychological Society, on Monday, December 10th ; sub¬
ject—“A Popular Beview of the Present Aspects of Physics, Biology,
and Psychology.” At the close, relevant questions will be invited.
Mr. Colville desires to publicly acknowledge, with thanks, a dona¬
tion of £5 to his Sunday Service Fund, received from “A Friend of
Spiritualism,” per Mrs. Strawbridge. On and after Sunday, December
9th, these services will be held regularly on Sunday mornings and
afternoons, at 429, Oxford-street.
The Times of November 22nd, says :—“Among the minor inventions
which have contributed in no small degree to the success of practical
telegraphy in England, must be mentioned those of Mr. Cromwell F.
Yarley, at one time electrician to the late Electric and International
Telegraph Company. At this moment the Yarley insulator probably is
the most perfect form of insulator in use.”
Nov. 30, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
263
“A VISION,” AND OTHER POEMS.
Mr. W. H. Harrison’s new book, The Lazy Lays, con¬
sisting chiefly of comic ballads and essays, contains also a
few poems of a Spiritualistic nature, including the follow¬
ing, which was written before he knew anything about
Spiritualism :—
Tossing on a bed of fever,
All disquieted I lie,
Visions and strange phantasies
Flit before my weary eye.
Gnarled oaks of shady forests
Throw their arching boughs o’erhead,
And the sunlight streams in patches,
Whilst the trees their shadows shed
O’er the dense and tangled brushwood,
O’er the bramble and the thyme,
And the distant bells are ringing
With a peaceful Sabbath chime.
Lazily the bees are humming
In the brilliant noontide sheen,
And bright dragon-flies come circling
In their maildd coats of green.
Now a troubled darkness hurtles,
And the scene seems streaked with blood;
Now a noise of rushing waters
Of a vast o’ervvhelming flood ;
A strange unhallowed wind is sighing,
And I wake to sense again—
Wake to hear my feeble moaning,
Tossing on a bed of pain.
Hark ! those strains of heavenly music,
All unearthly in their tone,
Stealing o’er the troubled senses,
Whispering thoughts of realms unknown.
See ! the darksome clouds are breaking,
Burst by streams of purest light,
And a scene of matchless glory
Opens to my dazzled sight—
Terraces of light ascending,
Columns, arches, spires, and domes,
Where the pure from earth translated
Praise Him in their starry homes,
And my long-lost sister Edith
Beckons with her pale, white hand—
She, the loved one, leads me onward,
Onward, to the spirit-land.
Angels of immortal beauty
Cluster round in robes of light—
Now, ah me ! the scene is fading,
Fading from my longing sight,
And my outstretched hands appealing,
Plead for entrance there in vain ;
And I wake to care and sorrow,
Wake to misery and pain.
And I press my throbbing temples
With a sense of awe and dread ;
Have I in my fitful slumbers
Passed the portals of the dead ?
Trod the land of the immortal ?
Pierced the secrets of the tomb ?
Scanned the realms of the hereafter,
Where the flowers eternal bloom ?
If that heaven be so resplendent
In the visions of the night,
The reality of glory
Far transcends all mortal sight.
And I long to burst my trammels,
Seek those regions of the blest,
” Where the wicked cease from troubling,
And the weary are at rest.”
As no body of people has suffered more from the lower
section of newspaper writers than Spiritualists, the following
u Song of the Newspaper Editor,” from The Lazy Lays,
may perhaps be of interest
In a column of books on Our table piled,
We perceive The Lazy Lays,
And the work having been thus observed by Us
We feel it deserves great praise.
But Our space is so small in these stirring times,
For aught but weighty themes,
And the Universe needs so much care from Us,
That We shun all rhyming dreams.
Our greatly increased circulation j ust now,
Drives tremors through Church and State ;
But advertisements brought up to ten p.m.
Will not reach Our hands too late.
We regret the jealousy, envy, and hate
Rival poets will show, and their fuss,
At Our words for this book, but We say once more,
That The Lays have been seen by Us.
The Scilly Islands' u Trumpet Blast."
The above ballad “ struck ile”—to use an American ex¬
pression—in the brain of a Daily News literary critic, who
thus grieves about the matter in serious argument:—
The review is a parody in verse of a typical critical notice of the
vaguely laudatory and self- excusing kind ; and to those who are not
able to conceive that a journalistic critic may admire, and yet lack
space for duly setting forth the grounds of his admiration, this will,
no doubt, appear a fair, as unquestionably it is an amusing skit.
The Graphic of last Friday is too dignified to make
excuses on the point. It says :—
Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour, should not fail
to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings, written, printed, pub¬
lished and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-street).
Both the verses and the short essays are really funny, and in some of
the latter there is a vein of general satire, which adds piquancy to the
fun. “ The Lay of the Newspaper Editor ” is capital, if rather severe,
and so is “ The Lay of the Macebearers ” ; but one of the most laugh¬
able bits is the Turk’s account of how he went to be photographed.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
next Wednesday’s soikee.
A soiree of the National Association of Spiritualists will take place
next Wednesday, in honour of Miss Kishngbury, the secretary, on the
occasion of her return to this country from the United States. At
the meeting she will give the results of her inquiries into the general
position of Spiritualism and Spiritualists in America. A large
attendance is expected. The doors will be openel at 6.30 p.m., and
the proceedings will commence at eight o’clock, refreshment being
served meanwhile. Ail Spiritualists can attend, and not members
only.
Miss Kislingbury reached London last Friday, after a fine-weather
passage, although storms were raging here all the time. Her ship.
The Italy, appears to have followed a cyclone, which, was travelling in
an easterly direction.
Spiritualism has taken root in Copenhagen, and we shall before long
publish some of the details.
Mr. J. M. Peebles has reached Cape Town, South Africa, and
lectured there three weeks ago on Spiritualism to a large audience.
Mrs. J. W. Fletcher announces by circular that she is prepared to
deliver inspirational lectures in this country.
The numerous Spiritualists who subscribe to public libraries could
do much good by writing to the managers for books on psychology,
mesmerism, and kindred subjects, and making strong complaints when
they are unobtainable. Many of the managers of these libraries
quietly decide what books their supporters may and may not read,
and it is desirable that this trade manipulation of the sources of know¬
ledge should be stopped.
M. Camille Flammarion, the French astronomer, after expressing his
belief in Spritualism, says:—“ This spirital hypothesis, by which alone
certain categories of these phenomena would seem to be explicable, has
been adopted by many of our most esteemed savants, among others by
Dr. Hoeffle, the learned author of the History of Chemistry and General
Encyclopeedia; and by the diligent labourer in the field of astronomic
discovery whose death we have recently had to deplore, M. Hermann
Goldschmidt, the discoverer of fourteen planets.”
The German philosopher, J. H. von Fichte, is a Spiritualist. In a
letter written to G. C. Wittig, from Stuttgardt, July 7, 1871, he says, “ I
have come to the conclusion that it is absolutely impossible to account
for these phenomena, save by assuming the action of a superhuman
influence. ... I feel deeply interested in the cause, for I am by no
means unaware of its high importance, both in a religious and social
point of view. I shall therefore be grateful to you if you will continue
your communications, and I assure you and your worthy friend, Coun¬
cillor Aksakof, of my most grateful appreciation of the indefatigable
zeal with which you so perseveringly devote your powers to that cause.”
264
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 30, 1877.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
On Monday, the 19th instant, Herr Christian Reimers (late of Man¬
chester), attended the fortnightly discussion meeting of the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston,
for the purpose of opening a discussion on “ Points connected with the
Production of Casts of Hands and Feet.” In consequence of the adverse
weather there was a small attendance. The chair having been taken
by Mr. R. A. March, it was suggested that the discussion should be ad¬
journed for a larger audience on some future occasion. Herr Christian
Reimers expressed his willingness to deal fully with the subject then and
there, but it was ultimately resolved that he should be asked to narrate
some of his experiences.
Herr Christian Reimers then stated that his first experiences of what
were known as “ Materialisation Phenomena ”—a term which, though it
had been found fault with, was, he contended, the only comprehensive
and proper term for the phenomena in question—were at a private circle
held in Manchester in 1873. Elementary phenomena, such as table-tilt¬
ing and raps, were obtained at first, and mostly in the light. When they
came to have dark sittings, the spirits communicated more freely, and a
spirit calling herself “Bertie,” who said she had been at the court of
Queen Elizabeth, and was contemporary with Sir Walter Raleigh and
other worthies of the time, spoke through the medium. By degrees, in
subdued light, cloudy forms became visible in the stance room, and tiny
materialised hands were felt by the sitters. At this juncture Mrs.
Firman arrived in Manchester and joined the circle. He (Herr Reimers)
soon found that the best way to obtain conclusive results was to treat
the mediums well, and not to be always annoying them with tests.
Gradually faces appeared ; they were usually imperfectly formed. It
then became necessary, owing to differences of opinion, that the seances
should be held at Herr Reimer’s own house. It was then that Bertie
succeeded in manifesting herself in a fully materialised form. Herr
Reimers expected to find her an elderly lady, a kind of duenna, instead
of which she appeared as a beautiful young woman, dressed as a nun,
with very small hands and feet, entirely different from those of the
medium, Mrs. Firman. He was not unmindful of the necessity of im¬
posing some conditions to satisfy outsiders, therefore, at these teances,
he had Mrs. Firman enclosed in a net, which he specially had made for
the purpose, and he tied her hands securely together. On one occasion
a plate of flour was placed on a chair some distance from the medium,
and on the flour the impression of the little hand of Bertie was found at
the close of the seance. Other spirits also materialised and became on
familiar terms with the members of the circle. Having heard of the
paraffin moulds obtained in America, he tried the experiments at his
circle, and with complete success. The casts of hands and feet on the
table before the members of the Association were some of the results of
those experiments. He presented a gold cross to Bertie as a keepsake,
and at a seance held some time afterwards, a mould of her hand with the
cross on the back was obtained, and a cast (one of those exhibited) taken
from it. Mr. Oxley and Mrs. Lightfoot (the medium through whom the
Angelic Revelations were given) were also present. Moulds of feet were
then obtained under excellent test conditions. Herr Reimers then described
in detail the way in which the respective moulds for the casts exhibited
were obtained. He expressed himself fully satisfied as to the good faith
of the medium, even if the many precautions taken by him, such as pre¬
viously weighing the paraffin wax, and so on, were not conclusive
evidence against fraud. He was quite convinced that trickery by the
introduction of models in plaster, wood, or india-rubber was out of the
question, and that the ingenious “ deception theories ” which bad been
started regarding these wonderful phenomena, were wholly untenable.
He referred his hearers to the full details of several of these seances,
which had been printed from time to time. It was a curious fact that
the spirit Bertie—precisely similar on each occasion—had also
materialised through Dr. Monck, and another powerful medium, whose
name he was not at liberty to state at present, thus proving, beyond
doubt, the individuality of the spirit. He concluded by saying that the
real secret of success was to understand the mediums, and treat them
well; not to look upon them as objects of unworthy suspicion, but as
men and women possessing a Divine gift, which, by judicious cultivation,
could be brought to a most wonderful development, of which, with all
the wonders crowding in upon them, Spiritualists could not foresee the
termination.
After a few critical remarks from Mr. Tapp, Mr. Tozeland, Mr.
Blyton, and other members, the proceedings terminated with a vote of
thanks to Herr Christian Reimers, proposed by Mr. Tozeland, and
seconded by Mr. Barltrop. It was resolved to adjourn the discussion to
Monday evening, the 17th December..
On a previous occasion Herr Christian Reimers read a paper before
the Dalston Association on “ Objections to Objectors.” He said that he
would try to take a tolerable likeness of that absurd figure in the
carnival of life, the fashionable objector to Spiritualism, who sought to
make experimental investigators believe that they were wrong, in using
their five senses for purposes of inquiry, and wrho tried to frighten them
by rattling the whole chain of natural laws, or at least as much of the
chain as has come into view. Such objectors founded their authority upon
their superior intelligence as presented to their own inner consciousness,
instead of upon observation and experiment. The abuse of men like
Professors Huxley and Tyndall had deluded their ignorant followers,
and incented the vulgar crowd to scoffing clamouring like the poultry in
a farm-yard, whilst unprincipled penny-a-liners played at logical leap¬
frog, like Bayazzas and clowns, over the heads of respectable investiga¬
tors. He knew a doctor who tied about thirty yards of rope round a
medium, leaving just enough of the unfortunate individual to breathe,
after which the doctor sat waiting for spirits to come into his delicious
presence, which they did not do. He consequently trumpeted this as
an exposure of Spiritualism, like the traveller, who, on seeing the
source of the Danube, stopped the little spring with his hand, and said-—
“ How surprised the people in Vienna will be when the river ceases
!|j running! ” Some objectors clamoured against professional medium-
i ship. He (Herr Reimers) once shared in that antipathy. As an artist
I he had experienced the revolting feeling produced by exchanging
spiritual work for cash; every true artist must blush when for the first
I. time the product of his inspiration is put on the scale of the market of
life. The contact of the spiritual with the material was in every in¬
stance more or less repulsive. But the objectors with whom he was
dealing had no such sentiments, for they unhesitatingly paid for their
seats in church, and for every church ceremony from birth to the bed of
death. He would remark, by the way, that a dying miser must suffer
terribly when he thinks of the expenses resulting from the operation in
which he is engaged. He had been told in Germany how a fellow met
a friend, and told him he had had his child baptised at St. Mary’s for
four shillings, and the reply was, “ Why don’t you go to St. Peter’s,
where they baptise the fattest baby for half-a-crown.” In England,
livings for spiritual duties were bought and sold beneath the auctioneer’s
hammer, so there was really little ■ cause to blame mediums for asking
sufficient for their time to enable them to live. The objection that
Spiritualists wanted to establish a new belief was not sound; they thought
for themselves, had all kinds of opinions, and did not have their opinions
made for them by a favourite parson, doctor, newspaper, or barber.
Some objections were the result of practical experience, and foremost
among these was the strange moral conduct of many mediums, for true
Spiritualists were driven, after severe struggles between feeling and
facts, to admit an almost total disconnection between medial gifts and
individual character.
GOD’S WORK BETTER THAN MAN’S.
The following is a passage from a letter written by Charles
Kingsley in 1843 :—
I am getting very strong, and have been thrashing wheat
a good deal these two last wet days, which is splendid exer¬
cise. I look forward to working in the garden at Pimperne.
What a place for summer nights ! We go and sit in the
church sometimes on summer nights, too But I am
not fond, you know, of going into churches to pray. We
must go up into the chase in the evenings, and pray there,
with nothing but God’s cloud temple between us and His
heaven, and His choir of small birds, and night crickets,
and booming beetles, and all happy things who praise Him
all night long! And in the still summer noon, too, with
the lazy-paced clouds above, and the distant sheep-bell, and
the bee humming in the beds of thyme, and one bird making
the hollies ring a moment, and then all still, hushed, awe-
bound, as the great thunder-clouds slide up from the far
j south—then, there to praise God! Ay, even when the
heaven is black, with wind, and the thunder cracking over
our heads, then to join in the pman of the storm-spirits to
Him whose pageant of power passes over the earth, and
harms us not in its mercy. I once scandalised a man who
had been sentimentalising about Gothic aisles, by telling
him that all agreed that they were built in imitation of the
| glades of forest trees, with branches interlacing overhead,
and that I liked God’s work better than man’s. In the
cathedral we worship alone, and the place is dumb, or
; speaks only to us, raising a semi-selfish emotion; that is,
having its beginning and end in us. In the forest, every
| branch and leaf, with the thousand living things which
| cluster on them, all worship with us ! That is no metaphor
| in which the Psalmist calls on all to praise God, from the
I monsters of the deep to u worms and feathered fowls.” They
| are all witnesses of God, and every emotion of pleasure
| which they feel is an act of praise to Him I I dare not say
j an unconscious act! This is not imagination, for imagina¬
tion deadens the feelings (so men say, but I do not under¬
stand—that word imagination is so much misused); but I,
when I feel thus, seem to see all the universe at one glance,
instinct with the spirit, and feel ready to turn to the first
beggar I meet, and say, “ Come, my brother, all this is
thine as well as mine! Come, and I will show thee thy
goodly heritage.” Oh, the yearning, when one sees a beau¬
tiful thing, to make some one else see it too ! Surely it is
of Heaven.—The Field.
Dr. Slade lias left Berlin for St. Petersburg, after, giving great
impetus to the spread of Spiritualism in Prussia. His address for
some little time will be “ Care of the Hon. A. Aksakof, Nevsky
Prospect 6, St. Petersbourg.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
B.—Letters verifying such facts should not be anonymous.
An Enquirer (Isle of Man).—We cannot find time to be made a “ go-between ”
for the forwarding of letters to the few correspondents who do not put their
names and addresses to their published communications. The sooner
anonymous letter-writing and anonymous journalism come to an end the
better.
Nov. 30, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spirilualismby a competent obseiTer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. 6d.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, E.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 16s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
icving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supematural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth XOs. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of atrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Yala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. od.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiraau n-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
S d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) .... 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . , . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 o
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind'; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
; Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
thology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . IS 6
i Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . .  ^  IQ 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
BEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENOE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. BourchierWrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spii'it
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate seientifle man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the ^genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention ihan the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—*
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be ■
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Bussell Street, London, W.Q.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible com¬
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-ealle d
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature's Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ , . . .76
The Seer. „III. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ 7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis ... .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .7 6
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . . .76
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.O.; or of Mr, John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W,
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
Nov. 30, 1877,
^ NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATURE DEATH BY., NATURAL MEAN'S.
T ORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated the other
J-J day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic, iu the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and toremove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
LINO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO'S FRUIT SALT. Compajatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blooa pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.’’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
XT'NO'S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“ Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
CANO’S FRUIT SALT.— A Lady writes: —
l -J “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.’’
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
IT'NO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
s particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
YNO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
-A products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
~Wf ORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
T T THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please —I am,
de.ar sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—End’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Pans—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PA IX,
MESMERISM AND’ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated * by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Author.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality.and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d, per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
■—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
) the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—^Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warri-
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies : at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described-—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc , on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcrait, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly 'Exists,
and is Probably the Medvam of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Soranam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic aud Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to he Student^Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retro vision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—^Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Gases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his hook on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
ftc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.8. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
CIENTIFJC EDUCATION.—The advertiser
is prepared to undertake the entire education of a young
gentleman intended for one of the scientific professions.
Special attention given to Chemistry, Metallurgy and
Electricity. Use of a Laboratory and Scientific Instruments.
Address X., Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russeli-
street, London.  
A LADY ARTIST, Spiritualist, and pupil of
Signor Belucci, Florence, and other schools, will, from
the 15th October, receive sitters for portraits in hbr studio,
19, Holland-street, Kensington. Moderate prices to mediums
and Spiritualists.
VY.
L. CANEY, photographer. Studio
opposite the Unity Church, 151, Upper-street,
slington, London, N.
LITER A ItY.■—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address C.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Onpond-street, W.O,
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
i? The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man —6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-beweg'ung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. "Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract,” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.. . . Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From Public Opinion..
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success., .. To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and alt
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and-the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific,-others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself... . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover. ... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.” .
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.’’
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William 11. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents... . The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \_N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
di l not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, ishound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
des'gn of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood's Rents, High Holborn.
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
