Begjsteked as a Newspaper.
&\i£ #ltof ilmspapr r^qrosSjcr bitlj ^pritwH;Ixsm in (&xmt §nfam*
the SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :~LONDON : n* Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 846, Boule.
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES:. British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 06, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philospphical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. xoio, Seventh-street.
No. 312.—(VOL.XHL—No. 7.)
LONDON : FRIDAY, AUGUST 16, 1878.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents,
Remarkable Spiritual Manifeststions in the House of the
Rev.. E. Phelps, D.D.:—The Outbreak of the Dis¬
turbances—The Passage of Matter through Matter— j
The Movement of Untouched Solid Objects--Intelli-
genee.Connected with the Phenomena—Rappings and
Poundings First Heard—The Phenomena Connected
with an Individual or “ Medium "—Images Made by
the Spirits—The Medium Floated in the Air—Conten¬
tions among the Spirits—A System of Communication
Established with the Spirits—Curious Communications
—Direct Spirit-Writing—Investigators at Fault  78
Letter from Herr J. Gillis to Mr. C. Reimers 78
Belief in Spirits... ...    - ... 78
The Interlinked Rings Test. The Relative Value of Rings
of Ivory, Wood, Coral, and other Substances 79
The Spirit-Mother. (Poetry.)    80
The Lines of Demarcation between Occultism and Spirit¬
ualism. By Emma Hardinge-Britten 81
Psychography  5     82
An Extraordinary Story about a Spirit Bride   82
Correspondence:—Canon Farrar’s Teachings—The Derby
Psychological (Society ■   82
The British Association at Dublin  83
The Mental and Psychological Influence of Acting ... ...84
The Most Vulgar Form of Materialism ...   ... 84
Answers to Correspondents...  84
Paragraphs:—Ministering Angels, 78 ; Hints to Investiga¬
tors, 83; Two Spiritualists ... ...    83
« THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
BSTABLISHBD IN 1869,
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of. Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have, published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Birckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston,• U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ol
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.-; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-i
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. -N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '.(United States); Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Gapueines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Ohiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Go. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place; and 18,
Exchange-street. Ohicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spi/ritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States' Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be closed on
Saturday, July 27th, and re-opened on Monday, August 26th.
THE BEADING BOOM AND LIBBAEY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30. a.m. to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high-class journals,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: Two Guineas a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Five shillings
a year includes membership, and an extra subscription of ten
shillings entitles one book from the lending library. Half-a-
Guinea a quarter entitles non-members to the use of the read¬
ing room and library, and also of the lending library.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborotoh-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members bave the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of boobs on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to-  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
MR. and MISS DIETZ having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (‘‘One of
the most successful series ever known in London”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—the
West of England, during the first week in October; Scotland,
during November; the Midland Counties, early in December.
Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route. For par¬
ticulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, London,
S.W. Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture on
“ American Humour,’’ illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors. 
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL
No. II. July.
REVIEW.
Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I. —The Two Schools of Thought. By St. George Stock.
II. —James Hinton. By William White.
III. —Clairvoyance and Psychography. By Epes Sargent.
IV. —The Abate of San Gandolfo. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Remarkable Psychological Experiences. By A. E.
Newton.
VI.—^Psychology of the Bible. By J. W. Farquhar.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. II.—Issoudun. By Rev. H.
N. Grimley.
VIII.—Thirtieth Anniversary of Modern Spiritualism. By
Thomas Shorter.
Leaves from My Life—An Innocent Sinner—Buddhism-
Miss Martineau Defended—More Glimpses of the World
Unseen — Concerning Everlasting Punishment — Possible
Planetary Influences—An Intelligent Tree—Psychography—
The Truthseeker — Views of our Heavenly Home —The
Master’s Field—Marguerite Marie Alacoque.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
NNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, 23. No.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London; The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, Wi
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its Object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief, | - ■; ■ -
All particulars may be obtained on application to .
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, ,
Willesden, N.W. .,
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations). '
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trtjbner & Co., London.
SCARCE AND VALUABLE BOOKS.
(Second hand.)
The Spiritual Magazine, Vols I. to XIV. (A.D. 1860 to 1873),
£7 10s.
The Celestial Telegraph (Cahagnet), 12s.
From Matter to Spirit (Mrs. De Morgan), 10s.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Pricels.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.    •
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London. E.C.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W,
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & CO.
Show Rooms:—s, Ludgate Circus Buildings,London, E.G.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT.”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildihgs, Chancery-lane, W.C
DEPOSITS received at. INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
 FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager. .
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
. Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London. ■' ' ~ T .
IMPORTANT NOTICE.—MARGARET FOX
KANE, of the original Rochester Fox family, widow of
Dr. Kane, the first Arctic explorer in search of Sir John-
Franklin, is staying with a friend at 2, Scarsdale Villas’, Ken- .
sington, where she will give seances, or, when desired, will
give sittings elsewhere. At home from two till eight o’clock
on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 16, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Oa der, Esq.> 1, Hereforrt-square. South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman. Beniamin, 1 Bernard-villas, Unper Norwood.
Eftz-C5er»l'i, Mrs . 19, Cambridcre-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Biixton, S.AV.
Greyorv, Mrs. Makdousall,21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honvwood Mrs.. 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jeneken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings TC.C.
Massey,. C. C , Barrlster-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
Hogers, E. Dawson, Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman. M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Oumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W- P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P„ Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , Langley House. Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, vrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett. Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F A., 24, St, Ann’s-square. Manchester
Bonwick, .T., F.R.G.S., Vale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, ,Tohn. 10. Dnnkeld-street. Liverpool.
Coffin, W H.. 94, Comwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
CoUey, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar.” Portsmouth.
Cropland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., r.vnwood. Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J C , Silver House, Cbampion-hill.
Fifton, R , 84, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G, F., Hale Cottage, Sbooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H,, 38. Great Russell-street.
Havle, TTios.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss. 20, Deiamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street. Leeds.
Hunt. Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon. M l C.E.. Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. 14, Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse,.! J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Noswortby, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W„ D, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C.. 15. Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Piokersgill, W. O., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Refiners, Christian. 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Stra ' bridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West BromptOn,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redeliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30. Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen. R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P, Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J-, 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vaJe, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen A.nne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.a., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-souare, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J, W, Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London. W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding ifemlers.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg. Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Csmp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Cewstantinonle.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Foiguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinek-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
If. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles,Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey.U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York. U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Myliie. Esq , Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, TT.S.A.
A. J. Riko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity. Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Ren Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq.,M.D.,I96, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., II, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de I’Europe,
Psris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq.,9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassoifnpiepr.e. 285, GhausseeSt. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Antbeline Fritz, Rue des Palais-137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bnuxel’es.
Lieut.-rOol. P. Jacoby, ii, Rue de Vienne, [Brussels.
Test. Esq., h{.D., UnioniSpr&ifts, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
ComteLe de Bullet, Hotel’de rAtbenee, Rue Scribe.'Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30,'Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunbut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary,
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epr'jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street,Belgra.ve-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
  dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
W0EKS BY THE COUNTESS OF CAITHNESS.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
<fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, P L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
 Price Is.  
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion hook to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 London:—Simpkin, mabshall & Co. 
Heaven opened ; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office  
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. Hie Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and seientifle subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office. London. W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
jell LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12itill 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday .evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above.  
MR, J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Go«t,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.  
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, <fce., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit eireumstahees. Days and hours of business—•
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from Ip.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS.M.G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Clairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms.
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
WANTED, by an Old Spiritualist, a Widow
of Fifty, a Situation as Cook or Housekeeper.—Ad¬
dress, Lydia, 27, Ambley-road, Harrow-road, Paddington,
London.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Pakt I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. L*ve and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gur'da.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Pabt II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII, Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vaia.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth;
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
T> ARE OLD BOOKS on ALCHEMY,
JL\i MAGIC, and ASTROLOGY, for sale.—Send stamped
envelope to Mr. Hadsb, 40, Addison-road, Kensington, London.
Ko. sis.—Volume Thirteen; Number Seven.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 16th, 1878.
REMARKABLE SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN THE ! i
HOUSE OF THE REV. E. PHELPS, D.D.
Two years after the earliest manifestations in connection j i
with modern Spiritualism began at Hydesville, U.S., strange [I
disturbances occurred in the house of the Rev. Eliakim II
Phelps, D.D., of Stratford, Connecticut. As the manifesta- j|
tions were of considerable interest, and can be paralleled by j <
many of more recent date, we quote nearly the whole of i
the authorised record of them which was published in E. W. j
Capron’s Modern Spiritualism, its Facts and Fanaticisms,
published in 1855, by Mr. Bela Marsh, of Boston, Mass., one
of the most interesting volumes connected with the early
history of the movement. Mr. Capron says :—
THE OUTBREAK OF THE DISTURBANCES.
I have been allowed to examine all the records kept of the
occurrences by Dr. Phelps, and shall be able, therefore, to j
present the history with more minuteness and accuracy than
has ever before appeared. The first disturbances took place j
at the house of the Rev. Eliakim Phelps, D.D., on the 10th |
day of March, 1850. The house had been occupied by him i
from the 22nd of February, 1848. It is a large and genteel
country mansion, separated from the street by a fence forty-
five feet from the front of the house ; the house is thirty-two
feet in front, and, including the piazza, seventy feet deep, with
a hall thirteen feet wide, running through the whole depth of |
the building. Adjoining, and opening from this hall, are
two parlours and a dining-room. On the second floor are
five sleeping-rooms, and on the third floor two. The kitchen
is in the basement. The house was built about the year
1829 or 1830 by a Captain Dondall, who for several years .
commanded a vessel in the China trade, and who died in the
bay of Canton within two or three years after his family had
taken up their residence in the house. The property then j
passed into the hands of another sea captain, by the name of
Purcell, who, with his family, occupied it for several years.
Captain Purcell dying suddenly in New York, the family
removed, and the house was occupied and used by an
Episcopal clergyman for a school for a year or more, and
afterwards by a Mr. , also as a school for boys.
None of the families who had thus far occupied the house
had ever been disturbed, or witnessed anything aside from
ordinary events. At the death of Captain Purcell it became
the property of the two daughters, of whom Dr. Phelps
purchased it during the month of November, 1847. For two
years previous to this it had been unoccupied. Dr. Phelps
and family commenced their residence therein on the 22nd
of February, 1848. Nothing occurred to excite the attention
of the family out of the ordinary course of events until the
10th of March, 1850 ; and, as before stated, nothing can be
learned of any strange or unusual events occurring there
previous to that time. It will be observed by the dates
given that Dr. Phelps had occupied the house more than two
years, had found it an agreeable and quiet place of residence
—having never been disturbed or alarmed by unusual
occurrences. On the 10th of March, as above stated, it
being the Sabbath, Dr. Phelps and family—consisting of
Mrs. Phelps, two daughters and two sons, the eldest a
daughter aged sixteen, a son of twelve years, and a second j
daughter of six years, children of Mrs. Phelps by a former j
marriage, and another son of Dr. Phelps by the present
marriage, not then three years old—all attended church; j
and an Irish servant girl, who had been employed in the j
family some six months, and had shown herself to be honest j
and trustworthy, had gone on that day to Bridgeport, to j
attend the Catholic Church. On leaving the house in the
morning it appears that the doctor had secured the chamber I
doors, and put the keys in his pocket; those which could be 1
| were locked inside and the keys left in them. The only
| door by which the chambers could be entered was locked,
| and the key taken by Dr. Phelps. He also locked the front
I door inside, left the key in the lock, and, passing out at the
| back door, locked that and placed the key in his pocket.
On returning from church at noon the front door was found
| standing open; the chamber doors, which were left fastened,
I were now open; and in the nursery the furniture was
j thrown about in disorder; chairs on the bed, and thrown
| down upon the floor; the shovel, tongs, and poker, with
| other things, were in unusual positions and places, every-
j thing showing unmistakable signs of the work of some rude
j hand making mischief in their absence. Upon discovering
| the disorder here Dr. Phelps passed into other rooms on the
| same floor, but could see no further evidence of intrusion.
| The first supposition was, very naturally, that some person
I or persons had entered and robbed the house. Search was
I immediately made in the closets where silver plate, spoons,
| forks, &c., were kept. All were found safe and undisturbed.
| A gold watch, left in an exposed place, remained there as
left. The impression still remained that burglars had been
in ; and on examination of the windows one was found
that could be raised from the outside, and though there was
no evidence of entrance having been made there, no doubt
existed that this was the place of access. Thinking they
might return during the afternoon, Dr. Phelps remained
at home, the other members of the family going again to
church. Being left alone the doctor armed himself, and,
selecting a secluded position, awaited the return of the
burglars. There was no disturbance during the afternoon ;
| no sound of footfall ; all remained quiet. On the return of
the family, after the service, usually closing at three o’clock,
several other articles were found out of place, but not in a
way to make it certain that they were not moved in the
morning. Articles of kitchen furniture were out of their
places. A tea-kettle, which had been used at dinner-time,
was found hidden behind some boxes in the cellar. The
bread, sugar-bowl, eggs, and numerous other things kept
in the kitchen, were found where they did not belong, and
where they had evidently been placed in some way which
the family could not account for. Upon entering the
| middle chamber, occupied as a sleeping-room, a sheet was
I found spread over the bed outside the counterpane, and
! beneath which was a nightgown and chemise laid out with
; the arms folded across the breast, with stockings placed in
' a position to represent, as it seemed, a corpse disposed as is
usual before placing it in the coffin. On the wall were
II written characters resembling those said by certain clair-
I j voyants to belong to a spiritual language, but which none of
II the family were able to decipher. Whether they had any
11 significance, or how they came there, was alike an unanswer-
11 able question by the family; they had not observed them
| before. Occurrences ceased for that day and night, yet, no
I one thinking of any mystery in the matter, they imputed it
| to roguish boys, or others, who had effected entrance with
| false keys, for mischief, rather than for robbery, and that
I the culprits would soon be detected.
THE PASSAGE OF MATTER THROUGH MATTER.
The next morning, March 11th, when the family went up-
| stairs, after breakfast, the middle chamber had again been
! visited, exhibiting much the same scene of disorder presented
| the previous day. A sheet was spread out upon the floor,
| the wash-stand laid upon its back upon the sheet, a candle-
| stick set upon the stand, the wash-bowl placed upon one
| side, and the pitcher on the other. The nightgown and
| chemise, used on the previous occasion to represent a dead
I body, were found one in the bowl, the other in the pitcher,
j It appears that these articles of clothing were not then in
use; they had been placed in a trunk whigh stood in a closet
74
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 16, 1878.
adjoining that room. They were replaced in the trunk when
removed from the bed the day before. As they were con¬
versing in relation to the disposition of the things as above
stated, Mrs. Phelps looked under the bed, and discovered
articles there, partially concealed by the bed, resembling
those in question. They were taken out and pronounced to
be the same. Dr. Phelps had not before examined them,
but then took them, noted the name and number on each, as
they were marked, folded and placed them again in the
trunk, remarking that he would put them where they would
stay; did not lock the trunk, not having a key, but locked
the closet and placed the key about his own person; then
requesting the family to all leave the room first, which they
did, the doctor, following, locked the door of the room, and
kept the key. Having observed that Mrs. Phelps seemed a
little troubled as to the mystery, he thought to convince her
that there was no mystery in the matter, and, having secured
the closet and room, he descended to the rooms below,
following them all. After the lapse of fifteen minutes, some
person spoke to the doctor, upon which he went up to the
chambers. At the head of the stairs, out in the hall, he
found the same articles which he had left as before stated.
He examined them, and was 'positive they were the same. He
went to the door ; found it locked; entered by applying the
key from his pocket; went to the closet; found it locked ;
took the key from his pocket; opened the door; looked in
the trunk; and the articles were gone ! Dr. Phelps states
that he was confident there was no deception in the case, and
that he then, for the first time, felt there was a mystery about
the affair. He had never believed in the appearing of ghosts
or departed spirits, warnings, or anything of that nature,
and, at the age of three score, had never seen or heard any¬
thing connected with that class of phenomena. The
evidence upon which superstitions, as he termed them, rest,
he had never examined, and while he had no proof positive
that they were impossible, and never did occur, he had no
evidence to found a belief upon that they ever had. His idea
of spiritual manifestations seems to have been that most, if
not all, followed by a strict scrutiny, might be accounted for
on natural or known principles, or some physical means,
which would disrobe them of the mysterious altogether.
But it was not to rest here.
THE MOVEMENT OF UNTOUCHED SOLID OBJECTS.
On the same day (March 11th) the moving and throwing
of furniture commenced. An umbrella, standing at the
end of the hall, leaped, without visible assistance, a distance
of, at least, twenty-five feet. Dr. Phelps saw the move¬
ment, and knows there was no perceptible agency by which
the motion was produced. A bucket, standing at the head
of the stairs, was thrown into the entry below. Smaller
articles, such as nails, forks, knives, spoons, bits of tin,
iron, and keys, were thrown from different directions about
the house. He says, u There were times when they came
from such directions that they might have been thrown by
some person in the house ”—at least that may be admitted
—but in very many cases the motion and point of starting
were such as to preclude all possibility of deception on the
part of persons in the rooms. During the afternoon Dr.
and Mrs. Phelps had occasion to go to Bridgeport, a distance
of some three miles. During their absence the shovel and
tongs, standing in the dining-room, were thrown violently
down the basement stairs; a piece of mourning crape
fastened to the knocker of the back door, and the mirrors
in the front chambers covered with sheets and tablecloths,
as is the custom in some parts of the country while a person
lies dead in the house. The crape on the door Dr. Phelps
did not see, but the covering on the mirrors he removed with
his own hands. The position of the mirrors in one room
was such that the coverings could not, without great diffi¬
culty, have been placed there by any person about the house.
Various articles were said to have been thrown about the
room—the phenomena continuing in his’ absence about the
same as when he was present in the fore part of the day.
Soon after sundown all was again quiet, and so continued
through the night.
.The next morning (March 12th)., soon after the family
were up, the same phenomena began again: knives, forks,
spoons, blocks of wood, nails, &c., &c., were thrown from
| different directions, and with increased frequency, attended
| by still stranger circumstances, and those of a still more
| mysterious character. Mrs. Phelps expressed some alarm,
| and a wish that some of the neighbours might be called in.
) | Dr. Phelps called on a retired clergyman of Stratford, a man
I of extensive information, much experience, and sound judg-
| ment, who was universally admitted to be capable of
| rendering correct judgment and good advice in such a case.
He requested him to call and spend an hour at the house,
to which he cheerfully consented. Dr. Phelps told him that
his family had been a little excited by some occurrences in
the house, but did not state any details of the matter, but
desired that he would sit with them for a short time and
witness for himself. He remained all day, but was, at first,
firmly of the opinion that the occurrences were produced, in
some way, through the agency of the girl, or some other
person about the house, and his main attention was directed
to the girl in the kitchen, or the children, in the expectation
that he should detect them in doing it.
The door leading from the parlours to the kitchen was, by
his request, locked, and all communication between it and
| the other parts of the house cut off; still, the throwing of
| articles went on as before. The children were sent out of
' the room, and the doors locked ; but this made no difference.
He stayed through most of the day on Thursday, and re¬
turned soon after breakfast next morning, and remained
most of the time for nearly three weeks. He became
satisfied, before the close of the second day, that neither the
girl in the kitchen nor the children had any agency in pro¬
ducing the strange movements. During the day (March
12 th) some of the neighbours were in the house, and small
blocks of wood were seen to fall in different places in their
presence ; but only one person noticed them in a way to
excite inquiry, and that person was requested not to mention
what she had seen.
On Wednesday, March 13th, the manifestations com¬
menced early in the morning, in the middle chamber, the
room in which two children slept, and began while they
were both asleep. A book, standing in the library, ten or
twelve feet from the bed, leaped from the shelf into the
middle of the room. The blower, which was in the grate,
leaped out on the floor, a distance of at least six feet, the
noise of which first awakened the children. At the break¬
fast-table several articles were thrown ; among them a large
potato, which had been sent from Pennsylvania, and laid up
i in a closet in the east chamber, fell on the table directly by
the side of Dr. Phelps’s plate, in a manner that no person
could have done it without instant detection. The doctor’s
curiosity was much excited, and he watched, with all the
scrutiny he was capable, every person in the room. He
took up the potato and let it fall from different heights, in
order to determine how far it must have fallen to have
made the concussion that it did ; and it was adjudged by
all that the distance could not have been more than twelve
or fifteen inches.
INTELLIGENCE CONNECTED WITH THE PHENOMENA.
The Rev. Mr.  came in soon after breakfast, and
remained during the day. Several Bibles were opened at
different passages, which seemed to be selected with a great
deal of care, and indicated either by placing pieces of paper
on them or turning down a leaf. These things first occurred
in the middle chamber where the library stood. While the
family were at dinner similar things were done in the
parlour adjoining the dining-room. Two Bibles and an
Episcopal prayer-book were opened at different passages,
chairs turned forward on the floor, two solar lamps placed on
the floor, a hat and man’s cap put one on each; nearly
everything in the room had been moved, and in so short a
time, that it seems wholly inadmissible that any person
about the house could have done it; besides, the whole
household were in the dining-room, all seated at the table,
except the servant, and she was employed waiting on the
| table.
In the afternoon the demonstrations were confined to the
I middle parlour, Dr. and Mrs. Phelps, and Mr. , and a
| part of the time the eldest daughter, being present; in the
| absence of the daughter the doors were locked, and the three
f first-named only were present.
Aug. 16, 1878.
75
THE SPIBITU ALIST.
The throwing of various things occupied the afternoon.
The articles thrown were picked up and placed upon the
mantle, and between the hours of one and four o’clock the |
number amounted to forty-six; among which were nails,
bits of tin, iron, keys, and small blocks, all of which were |
gathered from different parts of the house ; most of them !
from closets on the second floor, and the chambers. At one |
time while Mr. M   was standing near the centre of the
room, a padlock, which was known to have been in the j
closet of the middle chamber, fell at his feet. He took it
in his hand, letting it fall from different heights, to discover
the probable distance it must have fallen to produce the con¬
cussion. After various trials it was judged to have fallen
not more than two or two and a half feet. As Dr. Phelps
was sitting, perhaps ten feet from the pianoforte, he saw a
small toy-mouse, which was on the piano, arise as if tossed,
and, describing a parabola as it came, fall at his side, so
near that he took it from the floor without leaving his chair.
This he speaks of seeing as distinctly as ever he saw any¬
thing, the whole being perfectly in his view. He also saw,
in the same way, among other things, a nail, cotton-spool,
and key, arise from behind the sofa, which stood diagonally
across the corner of the room. He arose, went to the sofa,
looking behind and under it, but could discover nothing
which might give impulse to the articles. While examining
the carpet about the sofa to find if any other things were
there, without success, as his eyes were directed to one spot,
there arose from that very point a piece of cheese-rind,
perhaps eight inches from the floor; when he saw it first, it
arose four or five feet, passed over the sofa, and fell on the
floor. He is positive it was not there when he was looking
at the carpet, and knows there were no visible means of its
moving.
RAPPIXGS AND POUNDINGS FIRST HEARD.
Mr. M  suggested, as he was about to leave on
Wednesday night, that if the strange phenomena should
return, he would like to have some other persons called in.
Early the next morning, Thursday the 14th, the manifesta¬
tions commenced about the same as on the previous day.
Soon after breakfast a sheet was found spread upon the floor,
several Bibles were opened at different places, the candle¬
sticks, in a row, the highest in the middle, and covered with
a sheet; other articles changed about the room, without any
seeming design, more than to attract attention. Mr. M  j
proposed that notes be despatched to Rev. Mr. W , Con- |
gregational minister, and Mr. Plant, a lawyer of high stand¬
ing and respectability, which was accordingly done. It was !
at this time that they first began to hear rappings and heavy i
poundings. A loud sound, like some person striking the I
floor with some heavy substance, was heard, generally in
the middle chamber. This was usually done when no one |
was in the chamber, and on any one entering all was still.
In one instance a chair was seen to rise from the floor and
beat down again, five or six times, with a violence which |
caused the house to tremble, so as to be felt in all the adjoin¬
ing apartments. A large plated candlestick, standing on |
the mantle, was moved by some unseen power to the floor, I
and then rose up and down, beating the floor, until the |
candlestick was broken. This was the first article that was j
damaged about the house. Several times during the day, j
loud noises, like some one pounding with an axe, or some j
heavy substance, on the floor, were heard in different parts j
of the house, and several times the loud poundings terminated j
with a frightful scream; it was not a cry of distress, or any- j
thing that could be easily imitated,, seeming like something !
between the cry of a cat and the bleating of a calf, but louder j
than either. These sounds occurred, in all, probably twenty 1
times while the manifestations were going on. Sometimes |
the screams seemed to be in the third story, sometimes in ]
the front hall chamber, several times out in the yard, and j
occasionally in other places. There was, at no time, any I
audible expression of words. The sounds consisted of pound- j
ings, knockings, and screamings. On this day the first
images were found, which will be spoken of more fully
hereafter.
In the evening of this day, just after some young ladies j
had called, Dr. Phelps’s daughter returned to the parlour, it j
being between nine and ten o’clock. After seeing the young j
Jadies to the door, an iron stand, in which stood the fire- !
shovel, tongs, and poker, leaped from the hearth, where it
stood, into the middle of the floor, and rose up and beat the
floor with a force that made a jar that could be felt, and the
i sound heard, in any part of the house. This was seen only
j by the daughter, but Dr. Phelps and his wife heard the noise.
| The daughter ran through the dining-room to get upstairs,
| and, as she passed, a large table was standing, with the
other furniture, arranged for breakfast the next morning.
! The table was three feet nine inches wide, and five feet three
| inches long, made of solid mahogany ; and when she entered
the room it rose up and beat five or six times against the floor
! with a force which made the house jar. The noise was
heard by many persons in the house. Mrs. Phelps was
alarmed, and screamed out, “ Oh , take me from this place !”
This happened between nine and ten o’clock p.m. Previous
to this time, all manifestations had ceased by sundown, or a
little after.
THE PHENOMENA CONNECTED WITH AN INDIVIDUAL OR “ MEDIUM ”—IMAGES
MADE BY THE SPIRITS.
Soon after daylight on Friday, March 15th, movements
similar to those on previous days commenced. Henry, a
lad then eleven and a half years of age, attended the academy,
i and nothing had, thus far, ever occurred to connect these
strange phenomena with his presence. Dr. Phelps had never
| heard or thought of particular persons being u mediums.”
But on this day the remarkable occurrences seemed to be
| connected more or less with this boy. His cap was torn on
! his head, so as to be entirely destroyed. Another one
| which he put on was taken in the same way. First a small
hole opened in the crown; this gradually extended, and in a
■ j short time it was torn into many pieces. On another cap
| characters were made, apparently with chalk. They
I resembled those sometimes made by persons in the higher
! mesmeric state, describing them as characters of a spiritual
! language.
Five or six of these characters were, at one time, made
I on the boy’s cap. Others, supposed to constitute a sentence,
| were written on a red pocket-handkerchief; others on his
| pantaloons and coat, and on the inside of his sack-coat.
Copies of these characters were taken with great care, and
I were preserved till September following, when they were
| mysteriously destroyed. From this time it became evident
| that some of the phenomena had some kind of connection
I with this boy.
An umbrella, which he was carrying, was, in a mysterious
I manner, torn in several pieces. His pantaloons were tom
| from the bottom upwards, as high as the knee, and some-
I times higher, and were literally torn to ribbons an inch or
more wide. This occurred several times under the im¬
mediate inspection of Rev. Mr. M , which seems to fix
the fact that, in those instances at least, no power visible
did it. Thus it continued for several weeks, clothing to the
amount of twenty dollars being destroyed. At one time,
while he was riding in a carriage with Dr. Phelps, his cap
on his head was torn in a mysterious manner, and his pants
torn from the waistband to the bottom, in a way that no
human power could have done. Dr. Phelps heard them torn,
but could see nothing doing it, and knows the boy could
not have done it himself. It was on this day, March 15th,
that images, dressed in articles of clothing, were again
seen; only two or three appeared on that day. The most
extraordinary occurrences of this kind took place on Satur¬
day, the 16th. Soon after breakfast two or three images
appeared in the middle chamber; soon again another,
followed by others still, numbering in all eleven or twelve.
They were formed of articles of clothing, found about the
house, stuffed to resemble the human figure. A lady’s dress
would be stuffed in some cases with a muff; again with a
pillow, and sometimes with other dresses; a bonnet and
shoes were aptly placed to complete the figure. These, on
this ^occasion, all but one, represented females in the
attitude of devotion, some having Bibles or prayer-books
placed before them. One, formed of Mrs. Phelps’s dress, so
much resembled the real, that the little boy, scarce three
years old, coming into the room with his sister, older,
whispered, “ Be still, ma is saying prayers.”
A portable writing-desk, usually standing on the secretary
in the room, was taken and placed upon the floor, a towel
spread over it, and the image of a child kneeling beside it,
76
THE SPIK ITUALIST.
Am. 16. 1878.
A Yankee clock was taken from the mantle in the nursery,
and placed upon the floor in the middle room, a distance of
twenty feet, and so carefully done that the clock was still
going when discovered in its new place, though it stopped
some time after. It does not appear that any of these
images were seen in the process of construction, or that the
clothing, which was gathered from different localities, was
seen in the act of moving. When persons entered the room
everything was still, the clothing about the floor, which,
upon going again within a few minutes, was found wrought
into forms. The marked rapidity of their construction, and
the life-like appearance of them, seems to have been truly
wonderful. During this day several others than members
of the family were present. In several instances, when the
rooms were closed and the doors guarded, so that no person
could enter, the images were constructed. To one reading
or listening to the relation of these facts, the mischief and
cunning evinced will seem amusing as well as most wonder¬
ful ; but to the family who bore the annoyance and witnessed
the terrifying demonstrations, it was a serious and trying
affair.
The reader will keep in mind that this was on Saturday
of the first week of these strange proceedings, and many
persons were still believing that they must be produced by
some one in the house ; every member of the family there¬
fore was subjected to the most rigid scrutiny, which makes it
morally certain that no member of the household could have
had any agency in the matter without being at once detected.
Besides the neatness and despatch with which they were
formed, the natural appearance of most of them must have
required taste and skill beyond the conception of ordinary
persons in the flesh. Mr. M remained there throughout
the day, Mr. W , Governor Plant, and Captain S ,
a part of the day. During the day and evening various
things were thrown in different parts of the house. A brick¬
bat, which lay on the stairs leading to the third story, was
thrown violently downstairs, passing very near the head of
the eldest daughter as she was descending the stairs. A
fire-shovel was also thrown near her, which she first saw high
above her in a position to fall upon her head. She was
several times constrained to cry out from fear, so much as to
cause apprehension on her account.
[I omit, in this place, at the request of Dr. Phelps, a
minute account of occurrences in which the medium seemed
to be one who has now grown to be a young woman, and
would feel a repugnance at having her name mentioned in
connection with the subject. At one time a ribbon was tied
around her neck, while she was sleeping, so tightly as to
cause a serious affection of the brain. Dr. Phelps was
sitting in the room when it was done. Several other re¬
markable occurrences are omitted, on account of her
connection with them. In the main they do not differ
materially in their nature from the occurrences herein re¬
lated.]
The hiding of hats, caps, clothing, &c., seems at this time
to have become of common occurrence. On several occasions
a hat was seen to go upstairs—not thrown, but seemed to
be carried rapidly by unseen hands. For several days Dr.
Phelps was forced to keep his hat under lock and key to
prevent its disappearance if left out as usual. Coats, hats,
and canes of gentlemen who were strangers in the house
were spirited away, the only object seeming to be the grati¬
fication of mischievous desires, with the exception of a few
instances. They were found sometimes in the chimney,
under the bed, and in the bottom of trunks. The design
seemed to be to detain the owners to witness further demon¬
strations. Two gentlemen from an adjoining town called,
one of whom had expressed an earnest desire to witness the j j I
phenomena; but, having passed several hours and seen j
nothing, they were about to leave, when the person who j
expressed a wish found himself minus a hat. A thorough j
search followed, but no hat could be found; consequently j
the gentleman decided to remain until the next day. During i
the evening and night phenomena transpired sufficient to
gratify his most abundant desire. Similar cases, with like
results, afterwards occurred.
On the nineteenth and twentieth little occurred to cause
alarm. Some of the family heard loud and frightful screams I
in an adjacent outhouse, which must have been torturing *
jlj to the feelings, much more so than the silent images. Small
llj articles were also thrown about the house. Beports had now
j 11 got abroad, and some excitement was being produced, as is
| ? | always the case in country towns, where each person knows
| j | their neighbours’ private business quite as well, and some-
111 times better, than those most interested. And in a matter
] i of this kind all efforts to prevent publicity would prove
| I unavailing. Curiosity and staring wonder would overstep
j i all bounds of propriety and respect for the private rights and
j j | feelings of the family, forgetting that it is no slight thing
i 11 for the harmony and quiet of a household to be invaded, each
I member being subjected to suspicion, ill-natured scrutiny,
I or careless reproach. On this subject I can speak from ex-
| perience, having myself passed the ordeal. To persons of
| refined sensibility it is a trial indeed. In this case Dr.
| Phelps adopted the rule of giving all who called an oppor-
| tunity to investigate for themselves, and to this rule he
| adhered, notwithstanding the annoyance such a constant
I visitation must have occasioned. In one instance, while a
] rabble was gathered outside, a stranger, who came unintro-
| duced by letter or otherwise, asked to spend the night, and
| was refused for obvious reasons.
THE MEDIUM FLOATED IK THE AIR.
On Friday and Saturday, March 23rd and 24th, the dis-
| turbances increased, and became still more annoying. Loud
I poundings and screams were heard in different places, and
on Saturday evening, between sunset and dark, Harry was
passing through the dining-room, and thought himself sud¬
denly caught up by some unseen power from the floor, and
supposed that he was about to be carried off through the
ceiling. He was very much frightened, and screamed so as
to alarm the family, and remained in a state of great nervous
excitement for two or three hours, and the effects did not
wholly wear off for more than a week. At times he was in
such a state as to require two men to hold him. For several
days after this he spent a portion of his time with one of
the neighbours during the day, but the disturbances con¬
tinued the same at the house, although he appeared to be
more or less the medium as long as the phenomena con-
| tinned. At one time he was thrown into a cistern of water;
i at another he was tied up and suspended from a tree; and
several times was thrown into a state of apparent insensi¬
bility, in which he would remain from ten to fifty minutes,
and for which no human cause could be assigned.
Somewhere about the 20th or 22nd of March Dr. Phelps’s
I attention was called to a pamphlet (Capron and Barron’s),
! giving a history of the a mysterious noises” at Rochester and
| Auburn. Several persons who had read the same proposed to
question the agents of these disturbances in the manner
there recorded, and see if they could get answers to ques¬
tions. To this the doctor objected, for reasons known to
himself, but which may readily be imagined by those know¬
ing his position in life, and his general opinions of such
phenomena.
CONTENTIOXS AMONG THE SPIRITS.
On the 26th of March Anna left Stratford, and on the
3rd of April Harry also left. Ho manifestations took place
while both were away. Harry was absent a week, and Anna
three weeks; but the very day that Harry returned, the
manifestations commenced with greater power than ever.
Even before he arrived at the house, a paper with some
mysterious characters was dropped near the front door.
These characters were interpreted by a clairvoyant* to read
as follows :—
Fear not when he returns ; all danger is o’er.
We came, we disturbed thy house; but shall no more.
Believe us not evil or good till we prove
, Our speech to humanity, our language of love.
This was supposed to indicate that no further disturbance
would be made; but in the course of two or three hours
another paper was found in the boy’s hat in these words :—
The good ones say that all is done,
But the wicked ones say it has just begun.
The (l wicked ones,” in this case, seemed to come nearer
the truth than the “good ones,” for, on the afternoon of the
8th of April, the breaking of glass commenced for the first
time by the breaking of a pane in a mysterious manner. In
* Andrew Jackson Davis.
Aug. 16, 1878.
THE SPIKITTJALI3T.
7
the evening of the same day another was broken during i
family prayers, some of the pieces falling inside and some j j'
outside. There were no indications of anything being j
thrown against it. From this time forward for several j
weeks glass was broken almost daily, until the whole |
number of panes broken amounted to seventy-one in the j)
house and out-buildings. Most of them were broken by
something being thrown against them; among the articles j (
were a brush, a shoe, a poker, a fire-shovel, d- candlestick, a I
pair of snuffers, books, and numerous other things; occa- j|
sionally a stone or piece of brick, thrown from the outside. jx:
Dr. Phelps thinks it would have been possible, but not j
probable, that, in some of these cases, they might have been j
broken by human agency, but he was an eye-witness in some •||i
twenty or thirty cases, and knows that they could not have j ji
been so done. He saw a brush, which he knew to have been |
on a certain shelf but a moment before, and no person near j (
the shelf, fly to the window, break out a glass, and fall j)
down between the shutter and sash, where he knew, from |
the position, that no one could have thrown it. He saw a |
tumbler, which was standing on a bureau, rise from its place, j
fly to the window, and dash out the only pane remaining |
whole in the window, when no person was within twenty i
feet of it, and the only persons in the room were himself j
and Harry, the latter standing by the doctor’s side in the j
doorway of the room—a position in which it was utterly |
impossible for him to have done it without detection. j j
A SYSTEM OF COMMUNICATION ESTABLISHED WITH THE SPIRITS—CURIOUS j )
COMMUNICATIONS. I (
About this time, Dr. Phelps’s attention was called to the j
fact that the demonstrations were much more violent in the |
presence of some persons than of others. While some were I
present they would cease entirely, and commence as soon as 11
they left with great vehemence. j
On the 17th the communications were renewed, and from |
that time they had frequent communications, mainly respect- j
ing the property affair. At one time they asked how they j
should know that this was really from the spirit it purported j
to be, and requested his signature; when in less than four |
minutes a small piece of paper having on it an exact fac- j
simile of his handwriting was seen sticking to the wall—the j
writing apparently done with a pencil. Dr. Phelps still j j
preserves the original paper with the name inked over. It j j
was stuck to the wall by being made damp. | <
It was now discovered that, in order to get the rapping, |!
the presence of Henry was necessary. At one time a request j;
was made by the rapping to send him to New York, and a I
threat that all the windows in the house would be broken, if j |
they did not, was made; but in a few minutes after, a small j
piece of paper was seen to fall, apparently from the ceiling,
and on it written, u Send him not to N.Y.—evil will befall
him.” It was evident that there were two or more contend¬
ing agencies engaged in the manifestations. It was not easy j
to define or imagine what their objects were. At times, j
when one was making a communication the other would rap, |
seemingly to make confusion. At other times, when a j
communication was being made by alphabet, a paper would !
be dropped down, and on it written, “ It is all a lie; don’t j
believe what he says.” Sometimes language the most 1
profane, and occasionally, but rarely, obscene, would be j
written out in this way. Inquiry was made as to how these j
contradictory communications were to be accounted for, and
the answer was that an opposing spirit was attempting to
defeat the object of the first; that this spirit was now one
of his tormentors ; that both were in a state of misery, and
his suffering would be mitigated if the object of the first
could be accomplished, although he would never go to a state
of happiness.
Among the spirits who communicated were two who pro¬
fessed to be in a state of happiness, and three in a state of
misery. One of the good spirits claimed to be a sister of
him who made the first communication; she communicated
frequently, and constantly manifested herself in the morning
and evening devotions of the family, and always gave two
distinct knocks at the utterance of t£ Amen.” Upon inquiry
as to the meaning of these two knocks, the answer was given
that it was a response, after the manner of the Episcopal
service, signifying that she joined in the devotions.
Much that was communicated after the first few days was
iof a trifling and childish character; some, more like what
would be received from street rowdies than anything else.
To the question why they destroyed property, they replied,
“ For fun.” It was asked of the opposing spirit what could
be done to afford him relief; he answered that “ The best
thing they could do would be to give him a piece of pie.”
Sometimes letters would come, purporting to be from
ministers of Philadelphia, giving accounts of conversions in
their congregations and additions to their churches. These
were addressed to the doctor, and indicated a knowledge of
things in Philadelphia to an astonishing degree. Some of
the letters were addressed to Mrs. Phelps, signed, or rather
purporting to be signed, by departed spirits of persons who
had lived in Philadelphia, and all, or nearly all, who had
lived in a single square, and were the acquaintances of Mrs.
Phelps, during a residence in that city, in the time of her
former marriage. Sentimental notes were also addressed to
the daughter. These letters and billets were frequent,
amounting in all to nearly one hundred, and were all written
in one hand, though purporting to come from different
persons. The fact was at one time referred to, and an
explanation desired, to which the following was given :
“ We do not write with the hand—do not touch the pencil;
we write with the will.” At one time a paper was thrown
down to Mrs. Phelps, while in the parlour with a number of
ladies, having written on it, with a pencil, as follows :—
Sir,—Sir Sambo’s compliments, and begs the laddyes to accept as a *
token of esteem.
A lady in the family of Dr. Phelps had, in a humorous
way, requested the spirits to write her a letter that she might
send to a friend in Philadelphia. The spirit complied with
the request by sending down the following :—
Dear Mary,—I have just time to write and tell you I am well.
Give my love to Miss K and her uncle. Also to Mrs. and Mr.
D . Also to Sarah. Good-bye. H. P. Devil.
The initials of the lady’s name, who asked for the letter,
were H. P.
Papers were also thrown down, signed “ Beelzebub,” and
ce Sam Slick.” Sometimes names of persons, whom the
family had known in Philadelphia, but who had been dead
| several years, were signed to these papers.
The following was in pencil, and seems to be written in
I the same hand as the .other. It was superscribed “ E.
| Phelps—
If you promise not to write that I told you, I will not throw anything
| all this week.
On the 28th of July, 1850, two singular letters were
S thrown down, addressed to Dr. Phelps. They were both in
! one handwriting, but were signed by two different orthodox
I clergymen of Philadelphia. Their interest in religious
| movements, and their acquaintance with the phraseology of
| “ revival” correspondence, are seen at a glance. “ St.
| Peter’s,” in the second letter, is a Puseyite church.
| Dear Brother,—The Lord is dealing bountifully with His chosen.
people. Brother Barnes admitted to the church forty-nine last Sunday,
1 and Brother Parker thirty-four to-day. Brother Converse has had the
i cholera, and Brother Fairchild has grown so fleshy as scarcely to be
j recognised. Our friend Mr. Tarr has buried his wife. She died of
consumption. E. Tarr is married. Brother Mahu, being suddenly
| inspired last Sunday, spoke so eloquently and so loud, and used such
majestic action, as to be quite done up for a while. He broke a blood-
| vessel. Old Tiers has gone crazy, and is shut up in a madhouse, or,
| rather, a hospital. The H ’s have gone into the country to spend
! some time. That’s all the news.—Your faithful brother in Christ,
Br. A.
] Dear Brother,—The millennium truly is coming. The day of the
I Lord is at hand. We are adding countless numbers to the altar of the
I Lord. Brother A became inspired last Sunday, to such a degree,
| that his soul took its flight to the regions above, and has not yet
| returned. The Catholic churches, St. Joseph’s and St. Mary’s, were
| burned down; St. Peter’s, also—I believe that is a Catholic church.
| Brother Mahu was preaching from the text, “ Eesist the devil,” &c.,
j when he was suddenly overturned by an invisible power, which.
! frightened him so that his hair turned white in five minutes.
Brother Barnes, to render his church more attractive, is going to
j have opera singing and dancing, every Sunday p.m. Mrs. Alexander
I Tower, old Mr. Tiers, Brother Fairchild, and Mrs. Somerville are
I going to dance. I think they will find it a very lucrative employment.
I! Jane and Martha still progress in Hebrew.—Your affectionate brother,
M. B.
DIRECT SPIRIT-WRITING—INVESTIGATORS AT FAULT.
Spirit-writing, without visible human agency, has never
^ been a common mode of communicating, although it was
tflE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 16, 1878.
78
among the early occurrences at Hydesville, Rochester, and
Auburn.*
Sometimes these missives were enclosed in a book, and
thrown down stairs or into the room; sometimes wrapped
about a key or nail, or anything that would give a momentum,
and thrown into the room. Often they were seen to fall
from above; this occurring frequently when the doors were
closed, and it was not possible for any visible agent to have
been the cause. Writing would appear on the wall at times,
made, as i t appeared, with a pencil. On one occasion Dr.
Phelps was writing at his desk, and, turning his back for a
few moments, without leaving his chair, turned again to his
paper, where he found written in large letters, Very nice
paper and very nice ink for the devil.” The ink was not
yet dry, the desk was not two feet from him as he sat, and
he was entirely alone in the room.
About the 1st of May, Dr. Phelps of Boston, brother of
the Rev. Doctor and Professor Phelps, of Andover, a son of
the Rev. Doctor, went to Stratford to u expose the humbug
and with a full belief that it was a trick of evil-minded persons,
and that they should be able to detect and expose it without
trouble; and they were disappointed, as hundreds have been
under like circumstances. On Tuesday evening a loud rap
was heard on the back door, seeming to be made by the
knocker, loud enough to be heard twenty rods distant.
The servant went to the door, but no person was there.
After the lapse of five or eight minutes the rap was repeated,
It was then supposed that some one had done it mis¬
chievously, but on looking about no person was discovered.
It was in the shades of evening, but not dark enough to
prevent any person being seen who might have done it as
easily as at midday. The knocking came the third time,
when Dr. Phelps (the visitor) placed himself in the hall,
perhaps four feet from the door, and the Professor, of An¬
dover, took a position on the steps without, each having full
view of the door. The same loud raps were repeated on the
door between them. The knocker did not move, nor could
the eye detect any cause for what met the ear. The noise
was heard throughout the house, and both the gentlemen
were positive that no visible agent was employed to produce
it. About bed-time a loud pounding was heard on the
chamber door. The gentlemen, each with a candle in hand,
stood on either side of the door, as the pounding, as though
done with a heavy boot, was continued. The noise appeared
to each to be on the side of the door opposite to him. On
the following morning, as Dr. Phelps, of Stratford, was
standing at the foot of the stairs leading to the third storey,
a noise as loud, and much resembling the report of a pistol,
occurred apparently close to his ear. These boisterous sounds
occurred at intervals during a great part of the time that
the disturbance was continued. Sometimes for weeks they
would be heard; and again for days they were heard every
day.
It would seem, from various occurrences, that the agents
of these sounds, Whoever they were, must have been human
beings, or at least possessed of all the leading characteristics
of humanity. They were evidently influenced by kindness
or unkindness, by respect and confidence, as persons generally
are in this life. Some instances illustrating this are given.
One morning, during the breakfast hour, they would push
the breakfast table suddenly, raise up one side and shake it
in such a manner as to spill the cofiee, and otherwise occa¬
sion serious inconvenience. A person at the table spoke to
them in a tone of authority, commanding them to desist;
but the act was at once repeated. Again they were com¬
manded to cease, but increased violence followed this demand.
This was five or six times repeated, and the shaking was each
time renewed. At length another person at the table said, “ I
request you kindly to cease this annoyance, and allow us to take
our breakfast quietly,” and they ceased at once without a
repetition. It was found from this time that kindness had
about the same effect upon them that it produces upon man¬
kind at large. A lady, the wife of a clergyman, spent a few
weeks in the family during the summer, who received many
communications from them, would often, when the scissors,
thimble, or things of that kind were mislaid, say, v I will
thank the spirits to return my thimble, scissors,” or what-
* Mr. Sunderland, in his Book of Human Nature^ p. 280, says this was the first of the
spirit-writing, but he is in error. The author of this work was acquainted with cases of
ikis kind long before the disturbances at Stratford,
| ever was missing, and the article missing would drop at her
side, or in her lap, within a minute. Things of this kind
occurred very many times in course of the time that these
phenomena were continued. If a key or knife, or anything
I of the kind was mislaid, and any person was looking for it,
frequently it would be thrown to them as though their
wants were anticipated. Dr. Phelps was once with Harry
in the stable, when the currycomb could not be found, and
he asked Harry where it was, to which Harry replied that
| he did not know. At that moment the Doctor saw it rise,
I as if thrown, from a point ten feet distant from them, and,
11 describing a parabola, fall within a short distance of the spot
! where they both were standing.
|| (To be concluded in our next.)
| LETTER FROM HERR J. GILLIS TO MR. C. REIMERS.
} | Mr. Christian Reimers sends us the following
11 Sir,—I have just received a letter from Herr J. G-illis, dated St.
! I Petersburg, Aug. 10th, from which I extract a few lines:—
j “I too felt rather nervous about the preservation of the two interlinked
(| rings, but they are alljright, and delight and astonish again and again.
(| I will now lay also bare the grain of the wooden ring, and have & perfect
| photo taken. I received also a letter from Professor Zollner.”
Thus the long silence of Herr Gillis seems explained by the absence
11 of his scientific friends (vacation season), together with his wise reso-
| lution not to part with the rings on any account.
Christian Reimers.
47, Mornington-road, London, August 14th, 1878.
BELIEF IN SPIRITS.
Ossian, as rendered by Macpherson, pleads that the dead still exist,
I because their ghosts are seen. I know full well the senseless incredulity
! | which will greet this argument. It requires the audacity of conviction
| to pronounce it. I never knowingly beheld an apparition, whether
| ( ghost, wraith, or doppel, and I have no expectation of ever seeing one.
i ( But I am sure that if beings exist in an ethereal or spiritual form, there
j I are persons who are capable of seeing them. I do not believe that all
111 spectral appearances are produced by a deranged digestion or disturbed
i | molecular adjustment of the brain. I am totally incapable of such
| credulity.
(; To illustrate this belief we will now cite two or three examples which
> | it seems to me cannot be candidly questioned. M. Matter, a French
(| gentleman, holding a position in the Department of Public Instruction
(j at Paris, stated to a well-known American in 1859 that he paid a visit
I to Friedrich Oberlin, the celebrated pastor of Ban-de-la-Roche, in
(| Alsace. Oberlin submitted to his inspection a manuscript prepared by
([ himself, entitled, Journal des Apparitions et Instructions par Reves.
} j He found it to contain, among other things, a narrative of a series of
11 apparitions of his deceased wife, and of his interviews (entretiens) with
11 her. “ Oberlin was convinced,” said M. Matter, “ that the inhabitants
/ ! of the invisible world can appear to us, and we to them, when God
(i wills; and that we are apparitions to them as they are to us.”
(i Miss Anna Maria Porter, the author, relates that during her residence
(i at Esher, in Surrey, England, an old gentleman was in the habit of
(! visiting her house of evenings, reading the newspapers and drinking a
I cup of tea. One evening she saw him enter as usual, and seat himself
| j at the table, but without speaking. She addressed some remarks to
(! him, but he made no reply. After a few seconds she saw him rise and
|! leave the room without uttering a word. Astonished and alarmed at
(! this conduct, she immediately sent a servant to his house to make
j inquiries. The reply was brought back that the old gentleman had
11 died suddenly about an hour before.
j I It is also related that a gentleman in London who was familiar with
(| the late George Smith, the celebrated Assyriologist, heard his name
j called in Mr. Smith’s natural tone of voice on the afternoon of the day
| that he died at Hierapolis, in Syria, in August, 1878.
| Indeed, so general is the belief of mankind, from all antiquity, upon
| this subject, that there is no people among whom apparitions of the dead
11 are not related and believed. “ This opinion,” remarks Dr. Samuel
(j Johnson, “which prevails as far as human nature is diffused, could
|! become universal only by its truth ; those who never heard one another
(| would not have agreed in a tale which nothing but experience could
(j make credible.” Addison also declares : “Could not I give myself up
| i to this general testimony of mankind, I should to the relations of parti-
11 cular persons who are now living, and whom I cannot distrust in other
11 matters of life.”—A. Wilder, in Evolution.
(| Ministering Angels.—The Rev. Mr. Clark, of Xenia, Ohio, startled
| ] his congregation a few Sundays ago by declaring in one of his sermons
) | that it was a precious doctrine with him to believe and know that all
(I God’s people had ministering angels, who had power to come back to
| j this world and encourage and comfort all such as put their trust in
/1 Him; and that these ministering angels were unquestionably those who
(! had once lived with them, and taken an earthly interest in them. He
| ] claimed that he had a right, though a Methodist minister, to this faith;
11 claiming that John Wesley and Adam Clarke, two of the greatest
j i exponents of the Church, had long ago taken this position.—Inde*
pendent Age,
Aug. 16, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
79
THE INTERLINKED RINGS TEST. | ]'
THE RELATIVE VALUE OE RINGS OF IVORY, WOOD, CORAL, AND OTHER j ( j<
SUBSTANCES. ' . j S j
We have received the following letter from Dr. Carter ju
Blake about the interlinked rings manifestation recently I; |
obtained by Mr. Julius Gillis and Herr Christian Reimers: 1 ij
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist." j \!
Sir,—Since my letter last week, I have had an opportunity through i ) I
you kindness of carefully examining the photograph taken of the ivory i (j
and wooden rings on which so much discussion is likely to take place at j ; |
Leipsic and elsewhere. in
The fact appears clear to my senses that traces of the pattern, com- ! j!
monly called “ engine-turned,” and which is especially distinctive of the | > I
ivory, either of the Asiatic or African species of elephant, is visible over 11 i
nearly one-half the periphery of the ivory ring, such periphery being I (i
the one which the photographer has exposed to the light. This ex- |) j
amination, therefore, places the fact beyond all doubt that the ring is 11 i
really composed of elephantine ivory, cut at a transverse section to the I j j
axis of the tusk. J > i
A careful examination of the wood ring, which cannot be made from | (j
the photograph alone, is now necessary; and it is to be hoped that it j (I
will not be long delayed by the German microscopical botanists. j / j
C. Carter Blake. | (j
The reason why the “engine-turned” markings of the rj
ivory show so well in the photograph is, that a slight tinge | j
of yellow effects the contrast in colour by which the mark- j j
ings on ivory are made visible. Strong yellow comes out j j
black in a photograph, and feeble yellow produces a deeper j j j
tint in a photograph than in the original object. The | j
natural interlaced lines on some specimens of ivory resemble | j
the curved lines sometimes turned by machinery on the backs j
of watches, hence the expression v engine-turned.” (I
In the following letter Mr. Wakefield speaks of the per- j
manency of the test:— | j
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist." j j j
Sir,—As the correspondent who in your issue of the 19 th April j (
ventured to point out the great value of such a test experiment as the i
interlinking—passing through one another without fracture—of two j)
rings, each of a different material, such as two woods like ebony and j (
boxwood, a feat that has been now happily accomplished, allow me to (
make a few remarks on the practical value of such evidence. j)
It appears to me to be more valuable, viewed simply as a matter of j j
evidence, than if one had been raised from the dead, for whereas the i (
latter miracle must necessarily be wrought before a limited number of j)
witnesses—the testimony to its truth would be greatly weakened by I r
transmission—the miracle of the rings can be seen and handled by an | (
unlimited number, and for any length of time. It is for all purposes of I )
evidence as good ten years, a hundred, or a thousand years hence as it j (
was the day and hour it was performed. ■ t
There is not an association, or public or private meeting in the world, >
to which it cannot be exhibited—not one doubting individual in whose (
hands it may not be placed to be seen and felt, thus appealing at once, (
and directly, to two of their most reliable senses. J
It must always carry about with itself (as I observed in my letter) (
conclusive evidence of a miracle having been wrought. So that in this I (
respect it stands quite alone. j)
The alleged miracle, repeated at intervals, of the melting of the blood j (
of St. Janarius, is not to be compared with this as a question of | (
vidence. j )
It is greatly to be regretted that the rings were so soon taken out of j (
England, at least till they had been seen and testified to, after being j (
subjected to careful microscopic and chemical examination. At all i ;
events, it is to be hoped they will be forthcoming at the meetings of the j (
British Association in Dublin now approaching. j \
However, there can be little doubt that other equally zealous and | >
truthful inquirers will attain equal if not greater results. It is within i (
my experience (and I am glad to have a fitting opportunity of bearing j \
witness to the fact) that the results of such inquiries bear striking pro- j )
portion to the honesty and zeal of the minds who make them. As of | (
this, I have been furnished from time to time with conclusive proof. To j \
those who approach such inquiries in a different spirit, influenced by |)
other considerations, such as a desire to find evidence in support of some j (
preconceived theory, self-interest, curiosity, or with that large class so j S
circumstanced as to fear they might be compromised by an open avowal i)
of belief—a class much to be pitied—to all these the results will be ! (
always doubtful, often negative, and sometimes illusory. As to whether |)
this ring “ wonder,” if proved genuine, is to be regarded as a true j)
miracle, it is a verbal question really not worth discussing, turning on i (
the meaning to be attached to the word miracle. Stripping that word i j
of its many theological accretions, and understanding it to mean simply i)
an act contrary to, or beyond, the known laws of nature, these rings do j (
present a miracle within this definition. j)
In my former letter I believe I stated I had other suggestions to make, j)
but I think it better to reserve them till this miracle of the rings has i (
brought about some of the effect it is calculated to produce. j j
E. T. Wakefield. j)
Hanover Lodge, Harrow-on-the-Hill, 12th August, 1878. i ?
Is the test so very permanent ? Specimens of ivory H
frequently crack with age, and a crack through the linked |)
ivory ring would render it worthless thenceforth as evidence. I
It occurred to us that a solid ring of natural coral, small i ^
though it must be, would be exceedingly durable. On this
point a leading London coral merchant informs us small
rings in one piece of true coral are exceptional and expensive
things, since coral is not found in size sufficient to permit of
being turned into rings. Supposing that the manifestation
can hereafter be obtained without the smashing of several
rings in attempts, probably neither the smallness of the size
nor the expense would be any great impediment to their use.
Coral consists of microscopically small shells of a kind of
zoophyte. Two pieces of wash-leather (with a round hole in
the centre of each), interlinked without having been cut,
would form good evidence to carry about in the pocket; we
believe that Mr. Joad once tried to get this test. An un¬
broken ring of solid wood round the neck of a medium,
which ring is much too small to be slipped over his head,
would be a good test; the chief drawback would be that the
scientific disbelievers called upon to testify to the pheno¬
menon would tug at it viciously, and be delighted to drag a
medium about by such a collar.
Sir Charles Isham questions whether interlinked solid
rings of wood and ivory form an absolute test:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist?'
Sir,—Now that the ring test appears to have been so splendidly
accomplished, non-Spiritualists will be endeavouring to discover material
solutions of the same; I therefore should be pleased if this communi¬
cation of a Spiritualist may anticipate them. However startling the
announcement may at first sight appear, it has just occurred to me that
a solid ring of any material might be linked to a solid one of wood in
the following simple manner:—
Cut a longitudinal slit in a tree, and insert tightly a ring of any size
and material to such a depth as to bury a small section of it; the
diameter of the tree will be a little less than the required diameter of
the wooden ring. Should the operation be performed just before the
bursting of the foliage, and the ring be quite small, the bark will heal
over, and a very thin film of wood will develop in a few weeks; but for
practical purposes, or should a thick ring be required, it would be
necessary to leave it two or more years, according to the size desired.
Then cut the tree off on a level with the ring, above and below, and you
have a disc of wood ; now cut out the inside, and there are two solid
rings of different materials interlinked. Such being the case, it would
be advisable to obtain the phenomenon with a material other than wood,
such as ivory and bone, or Indian and African ivory.
C. E. Isham.
Lamport Hall, Northampton, August llth, 1878.
In reply to the above, the wooden ring used in the success¬
ful experiment had no abnormal markings in the grain, but
appeared to have been originally cut out of a normal disc.
Is it experimentally proved that growing wood will enclose
solid objects in the manner stated ? The ivory ring used in
Mr. Gillis’s experiment had been brought by him from
Germany a few days previously.
Herr Christian Reimers writes :—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—The minute and exhaustive examination of the rings is con¬
sidered, and justly so, the next step to be taken to arrive, if not at the
solution, at all events at the full stupendity of the result. The wooden
ring, as indicated by Dr. C. Blake, demands careful attention. I concur
with Dr. Carter Blake in avoiding the term “ matter through matter,”
for it premises knowledge of part of the mysterious mo^-ws operandi. Like¬
wise, I never say that things are “ brought through closed doors” (why
not walls ?); but, “ in spite of closed,” &c. We only know the effects,
and partly the conditions to obtain them, but not the chain of causes.
Therefore, we ought to be careful in applying terms. That results like
the present one have not been obtained long ago with similar conditions
and intense desire may be explained by the mental conditions playing
the most important part in these psychic experiments, which mental
conditions act, so to speak, like material substances. Thus, a cutting
sceptic may paralyse a strong array of powerful elements; a burning
enthusiast cause vibrations preventing the nice adjustment of subtle
forces.
A few days ago my medium told me that my spirit-companion, Bertie,
communicated to her that she (Bertie) played an essential part in the
experiment. Having no reason to doubt the veracity of my medium, I
took this, at first, as an innocent display of spirit enthusiasm, or pride,
for they share with us little freaks of imagination; but after-reflection
shows another side to it. In my latter period of witnessing marvellous
manifestations, Bertie played hide-and-seek with certain natural laws,
and ignoring all impediments, such as solid matter in the passage of
objects, seemed quite child’s play. Thus, scores of times I carried on a
correspondence and exchange of letters and flowers under absolute test-
conditions, viz., sealed doors and windows. The rapport grew so intense
that once I left my letter on the usual spot at noon, and returned to my
adjoining sitting-rootii. After half-an-hour (nobody coming near all the
time), I resolved to affix the tests, but the letter was already gone—
snatched away,- as it were. One of the bond fde proofs of disregard of
matter occurred when I discovered my three bunches of flowers (pre¬
viously brought into my sealed room) gone from the glasses on the
mantelpiece. Shortly before, I had locked my piano and taken the key
with me. After vainly searching for my flowers I returned to the piano
80
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 16, 1878.
to play a sonata, and, unlocking the lid, found all these same flowers
spread over the key-board! A pretty sight indeed! Last December,
when I had particularly carefully secured the entrance to my room by
means of the most intricate tests (which, by the bye, I increased after
each success), after leaving a letter and flowers there, I went to the
opera, and returning too late for refreshments, I had a vivid impression
on the road home how nice a glass of wine and a piece of cake would be;
then I, after finding all the tests intact, opened the door, and found the
letter gone, an answer in its place, also an exchange of flowers, and a
little Christmas present—a delicious glass of spiced wine and a cake on
the top of all. With these experiences I may be understood to feel
some confidence in the communication of Bertie as to her salutary
presence at these remarkable sittings, where she—and this gives more
force to it—several times materialised herself sufficient for me to accept
the appearance as identity. C. Beimeks.
London, 12th July.
The editor of Truth says in last week’s issue of his
journal:—
Now here we have persons asserting that they supped with ghosts and
talked with ghosts; assertions that we may believe or not believe as we
please. But the interlinked rings are, it is stated, to be submitted to
independent investigation. If really the one is a solid piece of ivory
and the other a solid piece of wood, by no recognised' law of nature
could they be interlinked. I shall be curious, therefore, to read the
report of the Leipsic professors as to.whether the ivory and the wood
really are solid. But if the melancholy Peter can interlink one pair of
rings he can interlink others. Why should not, therefore, a pair of
interlinked rings be submitted to scientific investigation in England ? I
should like to see such rings myself, and I should like still more to sup
with Peter. These mediums seem able to enjoy his society whenever
they please. If they would only bring Peter with them I shall esteem
it a pleasure to have the party to supper, and to provide them with as
much fowl and champagne as they can eat and drink. But mediums
always herd together, and never can be induced to allow independent
investigators to witness their mysteries. I am afraid, therefore, that it
is somewhat improbable that I shall ever be gratified by entertaining
Peter.
THE SPIBIT-MOTHER.
The following verses, given through the trance mediumship of Miss
Lizzie Doten, are extracted from her Poems of Progress:—
Through our lives’ mysterious changes,
Through the sorrow-haunted years,
Runs a law of Compensation
For our sufferings and our tears.
And the soul that reasons rightly,
All its sad complaining stills,
Till it learns that meek submission,
Where it wishes not nor wills.
Thus, in Sorrow’s fiery furnace
Was a faithful mother tried,
Till, through Love’s divinest uses,
All her soul was purified.
O ye sorrow-stricken mothers!
Ye whose weakness feeds your pain!
Listen to her simple story—
Listen! and be strong again.
u It was sunset—and the day-dream
Of my life was almost o’er;
For my spirit-barque was drifting
Slowly, slowly from the shore.
Dimly could I see the sunlight
Through my vine-wreathed window shine,
Faintly could I feel the pressure
Of a strong hand clasping mine.
“ But anew the life-tide started.
At my infant’s feeble cry;
Back my spirit turned in anguish,
And I felt I could not die.
Deeper, darker fell the shadows,
Like the midnight’s sable pall,
And that infant cry grew fainter—•
Fainter—fainter—that was all!
“ Suddenly I heard sweet voices
Mingling in a tender strain—
All my mortal weakness left me,
All my anguish and my pain.
On my forehead fell the glory
Of the bright, celestial morn,
I was of the earth no longer,
For my spirit was re-born.
“ Pure, sweet faces bent above me,
Tenderly they gazed and smiled,
And my Angel-Mother whispered,
‘ Welcome, welcome home, my child!
Then, in one melodious chorus,
Sang the radiant angel band,
‘Welcome 1 O thou weary pilgrim !
Welcome to the Spirit Land ! ’
“ But, o’er all those glad rejoicings,
Rose again my infant’s cry,
For my heart had borne the echo
Through the portals of the sky.
iAnd I murmured, t O ye bright ones !
Still my earthly home is dear ;
Vain are all your songs of welcome,
For I am not happy here.
“ ‘ Strike your harps, ye white-robed Angels 1
But your music makes me wild,
For my heart is with my treasure,
Heaven is only with my child !
Let me go, and whisper comfort
To my little mourning dove—
Life is cold ; O let me shield him
With a mother’s tenderest love ! ’
“ Swift there came a pure, white angel,
Through the glory, shining far ;
In her hand she bore a lily,
On her forehead beamed a star.
Very beautiful and tender
Was the love-light in her eyes,
Like the sunny smile of Summer
Beaming in the azure skies.
“ And she said, * O mourning sister!
Lo ! thy prayer of love is heard,
For the boundless Heart of Being
By thine earnest cry is stirred.
Heaven is life’s divinest freedom,
And no mandate bids thee stay ;
Go, and as a star of duty
Guide thy loved one on his way.
“ ‘ Life is full of holy uses,
If but rightly understood,
And its evils and abuses
May be stepping-stones to good.
Never seek to weakly shield him,
Or his destiny control,
For the wealth that grief shall yield him
Is the birthright of his soul.’
“ Musing deeply on her meaning,
Turned I from the heavenly shore,
And on love’s swift wings descending,
Sought my earthly home once more.
There my widowed, childless sister
Sat with meek and quiet grace,
With her heart’s great wasting sorrow
Written on her pale sweet face.
“ And she sang in dreamy murmurs,
Bending o’er my Willie’s head,
‘ Hush, my dear, lie still and slumber,
Holy angels guard thy bed.’
Soft I whispered, * Dearest sister—
Darling Willie—I am here.’
Sweetly smiled the sleeping infant,
And the singer dropped a tear.
“ Thenceforth was my soul united
To that life more dear than mine ;
And I prayed for strength to guide me,
From the source of Life Divine.
Slowly did I see the meaning
In life’s purposes concealed—
All the uses of temptation,
Sin and sorrow, stood revealed.
“ Through my loved one’s youth and manhood
In the hour of sinful strife,
I could see the nobler issues,
And the grand design of life.
I could see that he was guided
By a mightier hand than mine,
And a mother’s love was weakness
By the side of Love Divine.
“ Then I did not seek to shield him,
Or his destiny control—
Life, with all its varied changes,
Was the teacher of his soul.
Nay, I did not strive to alter
What I could not make nor mend,
For the love so full of wisdom
Could be trusted to the end.
I | “ I could give him strength and courage
1 j From the treasures of my love—
II could lead his aspirations
To the Holy Heart above ;
I could warn him in temptation,
That he might not blindly fall;
I could wait with faith and patience
For his triumph—that was all.
“ ’Mid the rush and roar of battle
In the carnival of death,
I When the air grew hot and heavy,
With the cannon’s fiery breath,
First and foremost with the bravest
Who had heard their country’s call,
With the stars and stripes above him,
i Did my darling Willie fall.
Aug. 16, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
81
“ Onward—onward rushed his comrades
"With a wild, defiant cry,
As they charged upon the foeman,
Leaving him alone to die.
Faint he murmured, ‘ O my mother!
Angel mother! art thou near ?’
And he caught the whispered answer,
‘ Darling Willie, I am here!
“ (0 my loved one ! my true-hearted!
Soon your anguish will be o’er,
Then, in heaven’s eternal sunshine,
We shall dwell for evermore.’
Swiftly o’er his pallid features
Gleams of heavenly brightness passed,
And my Willie’s noble spirit
Met me face to face at last.
“In a soldier’s grave they laid him
Underneath the sheltering pines,
Where the breezes made sweet music
Through the gently swaying vines.
Now in heaven our souls united
All their aspirations blend,
And my spirit’s holy mission
Thus hath found a joyful end.”
Through our lives’ mysterious changes,
Through the sorrow-haunted years.
Runs a law of Compensation
For our sufferings and our tears;
And the soul which reasons rightly
All its sad complaining stills,
Till it gains that calm condition
Where it wishes not, nor wills.
THE LINES OF DEMARCATION BETWEEN OCCULTISM
AND SPIRITUALISM.
BY EMMA HABDISTOE BEITTEN.
At what exact point of time in this onward rushing age of ours the
word “ Occultism ” first began to be bruited about by the tongue of
rumour, I am unable to say. To what particular circumstance, place,
or person, the word in question owes its widespread notoriety, I am
equally at a loss to determine. All I do know is, that it is used as a
weapon of offence by one class of Spiritualists against another, and
certain ill-defined meanings have been attached to it by the attacking
party, the sum of which implies that Occultism is the foe of Spirit¬
ualism, and that the chief end and aim of the Occultist’s faith is to
level deadly blows against that of the Spiritualist. Having been
classified—by a certain portion of the belligerent Spiritualists—amongst
the enemy’s ranks, and deeming it rather hard to spend my lifetime
and all I am and have in the defence of a cause which seems to rejoice
in no line of conduct more than the suicidal act of slaying its best
friends, I shall take advantage of the discussions which I am told are
being carried on in the columns of the English Spiritualist, to offer a
few remarks on the position of Occultism and Occultists, as I under¬
stand these terms. Being so far away from the great desideratum of a
regular and frequent mail delivery, and the immense pressure upon my
time being now, as heretofore, too great to permit of my studying
mail matter en masse, I can only touch upon the salient points at issue
from the reports rendered me by others. From these I learn that some
of the English Spiritualists, like many of their compeers in America,
greatly misunderstand the terms they denounce, and fail to realise that
Occultism can only be legitimately rendered, as the science of that
which is hidden—whilst the Occultist is neither more nor less than a
student of hidden things. If there were no mysteries in the universe
yet to be solved, and Spiritualism really covered the whole ground of
the occult or hidden in nature, then would the term Occultism be
meaningless, and the studies it points to be supererogatory. But after
having sat at the feet of my spiritual pastors and masters for twenty
years, and been as patient, faithful, and earnest a student of Spirit¬
ualism as its resources for instruction would allow, I find I have only
just gained that standpoint of knowledge which assures me that the
soul of man lives beyond the grave, and can and does communicate
with mortals, through certain telegraphic signs and signals. As to the
how spirits come, from whence the soul originated, its relations with
matter, its powers, potencies, past, present, and future—all these are
still points of occult knowledge, which I and others humbly crave per¬
mission to investigate, with a little more attention than Spiritualists
are always willing to accord to such very occult subjects ; and for this
purpose I do not confess myself guilty of any want of loyalty to
Spiritualism when I venture to question the opinions of the “ grand old
ancients,” explore the realms of magical art, peer into the crucible of
the alchemist, take a seat now and then on the tripod of the Pythia,
listen to the histories of trolls, dwarfs, fairies, undines, brownies, &c.,
and wonder whether they were any better or worse accredited than the
stories of Katie King and all their family relations ; in a word, I take
the liberty—although I am a Spiritualist—to ask for a little more light
on every subject to-day than I had yesterday, and determine that the
all of spiritual knowledge and light that man has ever enjoyed is no
more to be obtained through the communicants who have as yet mani¬
fested to us in this modern dispensation than it is to be found bound
up between the covers of the Bible. To me the most remarkable
phenomenon in Spiritualism is that Spiritualist who would limit the
sphere of investigation from the bands of Orion to the cabinet of the
Davenport Brothers.
"When the chains of ecclesiastical despotism fell from the neck of
the human soul, as we opened the gates of immortality at the summons
of the first rapping spirit of the nineteenth century, we immediately
enlarged our edition of the Bible—from King James’s version to that
written by the King of kings on the pages of the Universe. And
shall any petty spiritual autocrat denounce me because I turn from the
communications of the immortal “John” and “Katie,” to those of
Plotinus and Pythagoras ? Because I believe, nay know, that my
soul shall survive the shock of death, may I not try to find out where
that soul came from ? Because the spirits of earth are all around me,
and their homes are made manifest, and their spheres have become
palpable, and the demonstrations of their presence peoples the very
air I breathe with a living aura, and makes the atmosphere of my
silent chamber alive with the heart-throbs of an innumerable cloud
of living witnesses, must I thenceforward conclude that there are no
other spirits in the universe than those of humanity ? No other
spheres than those of this “ little dew-drop in space ” earth ? no
existences but those who have once been incarnated in the ever-
changing elements of our materiality? When my all-wise spiritualistic
friends can find the ultimate point of divisibility in the atom, I will
believe human spiritual existence is the ultimate point of density on
the one hand, and attenuation on the other, in the realms of elemental
being.
When they can prove that matter and spirit as we see it combined
in the human structure is all that the realms of atmosphere hold in
solution, I will cease to search below or above man for the origin and
ultimate of his soul’s career. The real truth to my apprehension is
this. Spiritualism is one phase, and one only, of Occultism.
Occultism, as the science of the unseen universe, is only demonstrated
in a very limited degree by Spiritualism. Even as far as we have
proceeded in that glorious and most welcome revelation, the solution
of one mystery only introduces us to the threshold of another, and
upon, aye, and over these thresholds I shall presume to step, in never-
ending search for those more profound solutions to life’s never-ending
problems, that will require the whole realm of existence to solve, the
experiences of every age to illustrate, and the entire areas of space to
explore thoroughly.
As to any present standpoints of belief, which would justify critics
in passing judgment upon us as Occultists, I protest against such pre¬
sumption. I should as soon venture to set up my religious opinions
as a standpoint for the faith of French Reincarnationists, Italian
Catholics, English Trinitarians, American Nothingarians, Hindoo
Buddhists, Chinese Llamaists, &c., &c., all of whom can, and do,
believe in spirit communion, as to allow any journalist to represent the
opinions of Madame Blavatsky, Colonel Olcott, or Emma Hardinge
Britten, as authoritative standards of faith in Occultism. Whatever we
may all and each believe, we make no profession of knowledge
beyond what we can absolutely demonstrate; and as I have ever held
that position, with all due allowance from my spiritualistic associates,
I shall take leave to carry it with me into those broader fields
of investigation which enlarge the borders of Spiritualism into
Occultism.
Occultism then is the all of spiritual things, as modern Spiritualism
proper is a part. Occultists are fearless explorers into the entire
realm of the Occult, instead of being contented to drink only from
such fountains of knowledge as the spirits of our own sphere can open
up to us. Occultism has as yet no standards of knowledge, but very
broad areas of opinion; and I should no more subscribe to the ipse dixit
of an Occultist, unless he could prove his positions upon unim¬
peachable grounds of proof, than I should acknowledge a right from
any Spiritualist to say to my soul, “Thus far shalt thou investi¬
gate, and no farther, and hitherto shall the waves of thy thought be
stayed.”
For my own part, I strongly recommend all Spiritualists to become
Occultists ; that is, to leave the idle and senseless platitudes in which
so many while away a leisure hour, converting Spiritualism into a
mere vehicle of an evening’s entertainment, and seriously set them¬
selves to work to discover the links of causation from which effects
spring ; to trace each spirit up through, as well as from matter, and up
through space into ultimates, as well as into the pleasantries of the
spirit circle.
Where such vast fields of knowledge are to be traversed as spiritual
existence opens up to our gaze, past, present, and future are the only
boundary lines which should limit our field of observation. Where
belief can stretch away to such illimitable heights and depths without
finding any horizon save man’s ignorance, it is an unpardonable sin to
sit cracking jokes with materialised spirits and “ run a-muck” against
every student who attempts to find out from what manufactories the
materialisers derive their materials. ‘ * Wide as the universe ” should
be the field of our research; free as the air our right to speculate and
draw deductions ; based on eternal principles our enunciation of
doctrinal opinions ; founded on the cornerstone of demonstrable facts
our claims to knowledge.
Courteously exchanging opinions with one another, instead of
belabouring those that differ from us with the old weapons of pre¬
judice and ignorance, this should be our method of research and our
means of growth ; and if we add, standing shoulder to shoulder with
each other in the new field of spiritual research against the legions of
conservatism and materiality, I think I have laid down a better plan
of operations for the advancement of our glorious cause than the idle
and wasteful battle of terms which has so long been going on between
the so-called ranks of Spiritualism and Occultism.—JSarbinger of Light
(Melbourne).
82
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Aug. 16, 1878.
“ PSYCHOGRAPHY.” .
Psychography. By M. A. (Oxon.) W. H. Habrison. 1878.—
Upon the title page this work is described as “a treatise on one of the
objective forms of psychic, a spiritual phenomena,” and, as the preface
informs us, is designed to present “a record of facts”bearing on the
form of manifestation, known usually as direct writing. It contains the
personal experiences of the author, substantiated and extended by those
of well-known writers, obtained in all cases under test conditions.
Baron Guldenstubbe, Professor Crookes, Serjeant Cox, Hon. R. Dale
Owen, Rev. J. Page Hopps, Mr. A. R. Wallace, Professor Barrett,
Dr. Wyld, Dr. C. Carter Blake, Rev. T. Colley, Canon Mouls, and
Madame Blavatsky, are among the authorities whose attestations are
here placed before the public, in the briefest and most satisfactory
manner. From the most unquestionable .evidence we have here the
proof of a force and an intelligence, exercised without physical inter¬
vention, and of such a character as to defy detection, as well as appa¬
rently to override all established law. We have the sworn testimony of
the Court Conjurer and Prestidigitator to the Emperor of Germany,
Samuel Bellachini, that after testing the mediumship of Mr. Slade in a
series of sittings in full daylight, as well as in the evening, he considers
obtaining of such phenomena by prestidigitation to be “ absolutely im¬
possible;” after which it is to be hoped that the unveracious and
shameless Maskelyne may be somewhat silenced. At one sitting in
St. Petersburg, writing in six different languages was obtained
on a single slate. Writing has been obtained in Greek, and
even in Chinese, as well as in many modern languages, of
which the mediums have been ignorant; but for further and complete
information upon this subject we must refer our readers to the book
itself. It is almost needless to say, that the selection of evidences has
been guided by that scrupulous accuracy for which “ M.A. (Oxon) ”
deservedly possesses the entire confidence of all readers. The criticism
is as usual searching and suggestive, the method logical and scientific,
the treatment scholarly—either to Spiritualists or inquirers the volume
is one of the highest value, and if the exceptionally fitted author could
continue to publish a series of them, each one dealing with a particular
branch of the phenomena, the science of Spiritualism supported by such
text books would inevitably advance to the position of importance due
to its marvellous revelations, but hitherto denied by the ignorance and
prejudice of the masses. No rational mind could escape the conviction
which a perusal of this 150 pp. compels ; and especially to those out¬
lying tracts of civilisation, where physical phenomena are rarely within
reach of the investigator, such treatises as these are invaluable. The
printer’s and binder’s portion of the undertaking has been very hand¬
somely performed, and we trust that the little handbook will have as it
merits an immense circulation.—Harbinger of Light (Melbourne).
AN EXTRAORDINARY STORY ABOUT A SPIRIT BRIDE.
[From the u Cincinnati Commercial.”)
Terre Haute, Ind., Dec. 18th.-—We, the undersigned, manager of
Anna Stewart’s seances, are in daily receipt of letters calling our attention
to a report under the caption of “ Marrying a Ghost,” found in your
issue of a recent date, asking our version of the unique wedding. In
reply, we take from the said report the following extract, fully endorsing
the statements made therein by your correspondent:—
“At seven o’clock Mrs. Stewart entered the cabinet, the lights were
turned down, and quiet prevailed, broken only by the sweet and
trembling vibration of the doctor’s musical box, a condition necessary
to assist the controlling spirit to more fully materialise. Some twenty
minutes were in this manner whiled away, when the door of the cabinet
opened, disclosing an angelic figure, arrayed in a complete bridal
costume of snow-white texture, indescribably beautiful. The veil, which
appeared like a fleecy vapour, encircled her brow, and being caught
at the temples, fell in graceful folds and seemingly almost enveloping
her entire form. Thus, like treading on the clouds, the form walked
softly into the rostrum. The Judge, who had received spiritual intelli¬
gence as to what was about to occur, at once recognised the materiali¬
sation as that of his departed wife, and exhibiting considerable feeling,
mingled with much dignity of manner, approached her with affectionate
greeting,- and placing within her gloved hand a bouquet of rare
flowers, imprinted upon her lips a fervent kiss. ‘ Are you ready ? ’
inquired the doctor. ‘ We are,’ responded the Judge. Justice
Denehie, of this city, then stepped upon. the rostrum, and
joining the hands of the couple, in a few well chosen words, in the
name of the overruling power, united the mortal to the immortal;
vows of eternal constancy and fidelity were exchanged, pledges of love
were made anew. At the conclusion of this ceremony, the spirit bride
received the congratulations of the company present, then slowly
receded. As she crossed the threshold of the cabinet a dazzling light
flooded its precincts, revealing to the audience a spirit face of marvellous
beauty.”
The above, as reported, was witnessed on Sunday evening, the 19th
of November last, by twenty persons, composed equally of each sex.
The preliminary arrangements were consummated in a private seance on
the morning of the same day. During the fifteen minutes taken up by
the interview the apparition was seated by his side, asking and replying
to questions indicative of a superior intellect. The conversation on her
part was conducted in a loud and distinct whisper. She manifested'the
greatest pleasure in accepting the privilege granted to reassure him of
her continued regard and affection. In reply to the question referring
to the proposed marriage, “ What will the ignorant aud prejudiced say ?
Will they not regard me crazy?” “It matters not as to what they
may say; let us please ourselves,” was the decisive and emphatic reply.
His wishes as regards the wedding-dress were consulted with manifest
interest and scrupulous care. She appeared on the momentous occasion
attired in the habiliments agreed upon, with the pleasing exception that
in splendour they surpassed anticipations.
Mr. Linas B. Denehie, the official whose services by pre-engage¬
ment were secured, promptly mounted the rostrum at the proper
time, and passed on to meet them, as they arm-in-arm advanced to
the front. Unexpectedly a warning to halt was received. Alas 1
the apparition was faltering. In swaying the head and shoulders
fell backward; the face, partially dematerialising, assuming a pallid
and ghastly appearance. Awe-stricken, his honour, the ’squire, awaited
results with anxious solicitude. In the meantime, sympathetic minds
imploringly and silently offered prayers in her behalf. A few moments
of breathless silence, and the crisis passed. Behold ! she rallied,
coming up with a power that inspired all with a grateful confidence
in her ability to pass successfully the trying ordeal. At the con¬
clusion of the ceremony the judge conducted her to the cabinet,
following which the illumination referred to was introduced. After
the brilliant light faded away, the apparition reappeared, shaking
hands with the judge, then the ’squire, and afterwards with all in
the room, returning to the cabinet, closed the door, and was seen no
more. Thus terminated the most startling and interesting event ever
recorded in the annals of spirit phenomena.
In conclusion, we desire to say that the location of the judge in
Vermont was incorrectly reported, and the initial “ A.” is fictitious.
Doubtless the omission was for prudential reasons. The inaccuracy in
the location and the initial letter does not change the important fact, and
a correction is unimportant. It may be proper, however, to assure the
public that his honour occupied the executive chair in a judicial capacity
of judge in his circuit court district for fourteen consecutive years. The
execution of his official acts was noted for accuracy and promptness; he
filled his position with honour and acknowledged ability.
Allen Pence, I
James Hook, > Committee.
Samuel CoftNAR,J
To the interested be it known that I, Linus B. Denehie, certify that
the statements in the above referring to my connection therewith are
strictly correct. L. B. Denehie.
aromsponxieuce.
{Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed,
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which are not anonymous.)
canon farrar’s teachinos.
Sir,—Mr. Gerald Massey has plainly shown us in his Shakespeare's
Sonnets and his Private Friends, as well as in his valuable little book
Concerning Spiritualism, that Marlowe was the poet to whom
Shakespeare alluded as—
By spirits taught to write above a mortal pitch;
and to whom came
Compeers by night, giving him aid.
This appears to me very valuable testimony, because the Spiritualism
taught by Marlowe is so very like the Spiritualism taught in the present
day, that it shows the unchangeable nature of true Spiritualism, so
unlike the variety of teaching in the Churches. And yet, indeed, such
men as Canon Farrar are beginning to teach Spiritualism, though they
are unwilling or unable to acknowledge its source. However this may
be, Canon Farrar is at any rate teaching Spiritualism ; and while, more¬
over, knowing perhaps nothing about the identity of Marlowe with that
of the poet alluded to by Shakespeare, he yet quotes Marlowe in con¬
firmation of his own views of Eternal Hope, and, I may add, of true
Spiritualism, when he points out that writer as telling us in his Devil
and Dr. Faustus that—
Hell hath no limits, nor is circumscribed
In one self place'; but where we are is hell,
And where hell is there must we ever be,
And, to be short, when all this world dissolves,
And every creature shall be purified,
All places shall be hell which are not heaven.
  Audax.
THE DERBY PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Sir,—The annual picnic in connection with this society will be held
on Saturday noon, August 24th, 1878, at Haddon Hall, Rowsley. A
special excursion train will leave Derby for Rowsley at two o’clock.
Upon arriving at Rowsley the party will proceed direct to Haddon
Hall, an old mansion belonging to the Duke of Rutland, which is famous
for its historical associations and excellent preservation, although some
six hundred years have elapsed since it was founded. Those friends
desirous of viewing the various rooms and grounds will take the first
opportunity of doing so, after which the party will partake of refresh¬
ments in one of the rooms of the mansion. A short meeting will then
be held in one of the rooms procured for the purpose. It is hoped that
friends in the Lancashire district, Nottingham, Belper, Holloway,
Leicester, and neighbouring towns will kindly accept this intimation ;
each and all will be welcome.
J. J. Morse, President.
T. W. Ward, Hon. Sec.
Derby, August 10th, 1878,
Newspaper abuse of Spiritualism seems to be nearly at an end in
this country. We sent out to different journals many copies of the
last number of The Spiritualist, and, contrary to all precedents, but
those of recent date, not a single specimen of newspaper blackguardism
has come back in return. Truth, in its yesterday’s number, publishes
the details of the “ interlinked rings ” test.
Aug. 16, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
83
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT DUBLIN.
(From our Special Correspondent.')
Dublin, Wednesday Evening.
The proceedings of the British Association for the Advancement of
Science for 1878 will begin here to-night, under the presidency of Mr. Wm.
Spottiswoode, LL.D., treasurer to the Royal Society. The meeting will
be a large and lively one, the inhabitants of Dublin and various noble¬
men residing in the vicinity having made preparations to entertain their
visitors on a scale of hospitality perhaps never exceeded in any city in
which the annual meeting has yet been held. Nothing much in the
way of scientific novelty is expected to be brought forward ; there will
probably be more play than work, to the general satisfaction of every¬
body, since a British Association meeting may somewhat justly be
defined as “the learned and scientific societies out for a holiday.” I
have not as yet heard that Spiritualism and its phenomena are
likely to occupy attention, but if something sensational is
required to talk about, a mine of excitement can be sprung,
as at Glasgow, by broaching psychic subjects. The circumstance that
most of the scientific people here are utterly ignorant and untrust¬
worthy on these subjects, will enable them to speak upon them with
all the more fluency, and an opportunity will thus be given to the
better-informed, who are in fair proportion here, to correct the
assertions of the garrulous.
Captain R. F. Burton, one of the honorary and corresponding mem¬
bers of the British National Association of Spiritualists, arrived here
last night with Mrs. Burton ; they are the guests of Lord Talbot de
Malahide. Two other great travellers, Captain Burnaby and Mr.
Stanley, are also here. Mr. William Crookes is not coming. Mr.
Barrett, who brought psychic phenomena under the notice of the
Glasgow meeting, is here; in fact, he holds a permanent professorship
at the Royal College of Science, Dublin. Professor Huxley presides
over the Anthropological Department, in which the subject of Spirit¬
ualism is most likely to come up, if it is broached here at all.
Some scientific men paint Spiritualists as dying with anxiety to have
psychic phenomena considered by scientific organisations. There never
was a greater mistake. Except for the consequent advertising, Spirit¬
ualists do not care a snap of the fingers for the sayings or doings of
scientific bodies on the subject, being quite content to investigate
psychic phenomena for themselves, and to see the phenomena so spread¬
ing among the equals and superiors of technical authorities, as to make
the ignorance of the latter a general laughing-stock, and a proof to the
public that bigotry exists among reputed men of science as well as among
theologians.
An example of the effects of this scientific ignorance took place this
morning. At a meeting of the General Committee of the Association
at Trinity College, at which an unusually strong array of men of world¬
wide intellectual fame was present, the following paragraphs in the
report of the Council were passed unanimously, and are believed to have
reference chiefly to the debate on Spiritualism two years since, at Glasgow,
at which debate practical facts of nature were advanced, divorced to a
large extent from hypotheses:—
“ The General Committee adopted last year certain modifications of
the Rules of the Association, which had for their object the exclusion of
unscientific or other unsuitable papers and discussions, from the sectional
proceedings of the Association ; and the Council have, during the past
year, further considered this question.”
The Council are of opinion that the existing rules of the Association,
with the additions hereto subjoined, will afford, if carried out in their
integrity, a sufficient guarantee for the exclusion of unscientific and
unsuitable papers:—
“ 1. That the appointment of sectional presidents, vice-presidents,
and secretaries, be made either a year in advance, or at such early
period as the Council may find practicable.
“ 2. That no paper received after the commencement of the meeting
shall be read, unless recommended by the committee of the section,
after it has been referred and reported upon.”
Will Captain Burton try experimentally whether this has the practical
effect of making the British Association “ commit itself” historically, by
refusing to let him advance a plain statement of facts of nature he has
witnessed, apart from a trace of speculation ? It gives the public
valuable knowledge to let them see that if they trust to authorities,
instead of inquiring for themselves, they must suffer.
Mr. Walter Weldon, one of the gentlemen who testified at Glasgow
to the reality of psychic facts, is here. He has just been awarded a
medal from the Paris Exhibition for one of his scientific inventions.
Although the hotels of Dublin are numerous, and many of them large,
they are all full, and the latest visitors drive about the town for hours,
seeking for a place to lay their heads. When it rains, the cab accom¬
modation of Dublin is not large enough to stand the present strain upon
it, so some of the visitors are obliged to use the open cars.
On my way here I had a seance with Mr. Summerville, the new
medium, at Birmingham, at which Mrs. Tyndall, Mr. Turner, Mr.
Aaron Franklin, Mrs. Groom (medium), Mr. Perks, and others, were
present. Two inquirers known to some of those present searched
Mr. Summerville thoroughly, then brought him into the seance
room between them, not permitting him to go near anybody else ;
then they dropped an inverted sack over him, near the centre of
the room, and nailed the edges of the sack to the floor. The
sack had previously been searched. Then, in declining daylight, by
which I easily saw the time by my watch, the observers sat round the
sack, with the nearest spectator at a distance from it of three or four
feet. After the lapse of nine minutes the medium said that flowers had
fallen at his feet. One of the searchers pulled up the sack, and dragged
up the nails near his feet, when about a dozen flowers were seen near his
boots; they were different kinds of flowers, and six or seven of them
averaged about three inches in diameter. They were wet.
Afterwards there was a dark seance, in which solid objects were
floated about with a moderate degree of power, and touched the heads of
the sitters gently in their rapid flight. The rudiments of the develop¬
ment of direct spirit voice manifestations were perceptible. Mr. Sum¬
merville appears to be a strong medium, but with his powers but half-
developed at present.
The manifestations herein-described are unsatisfactory to a medium,
because seances of a test character "necessarily submit him to dis¬
agreeable operations, and, after all, evidence that spirits can bring solid
objects into closed rooms is given commonly enough at seances for other
manifestations. It would be better for Mr. Summerville if some , other
section of his powers were cultivated in place of the present chief one.
Mr. Regan, the healing medium, and Mrs. Regan, are in Boulogne.
Many of the works on Spiritualism published at The, Spiritualist branch
office may be obtained of Mr. J. J. Morse, Uttoxetor-road, Derby.
Letters intended for Mr. W. H. Harrison should be addressed to him at
The Reception Room, British Association, Dublin, if posted before next
Tuesday night. Afterwards they should be addressed to.38, Great Russell-
street, London, as usual.
We have received a letter from the Rev. George St. Olair, of Birmingham,
denying generally the accuracy of some of the statements of his opponents
in the recent controversy, but giving no particulars. We have also received
one on the other side from Mr. Aaron Franklin. The whole subject is so
unimportant as to be unworthy of further public notice, and had better be
good-temperedly forgotten by all those chiefly concerned.
Hints to Investigators.—Mr. Z. T. Griffen gives, in The Banner of
Light, the following sarcastic hints to vivisectors and other investigators,
who think it their duty to torture mediums “ When you go to a circle
for physical manifestations, take a syringe filled with oil of vitriol, to
use in case a materialised face should appear at the cabinet opening.
You should also have some Paris-green, moistened, to put on the musical
instruments to be used in the dark. Provide yourself plentifully with
torpedo-matches to scatter on the floor of the cabinet, or, better still, a
few sharpened tacks, so that when the materialisation f steps around ’ in
the cabinet it will get pricked or explode a torpedo. An air-pistol would
be a fine thing to shoot with into the cabinet when a form appears.
Always be sure to provide yourself with a dark lantern, and matches or
phosphorus to strike a light suddenly; and also be provided with spring-
guns, fish-hooks, small steel-traps, or any other infernal machines you
can invent or construct to catch a hand in the dark—either the spirit’s
or medium’s hand. When a medium objects to having his (or her)
mouth plastered up, hands tied, handcuffed, or hands and feet spiked to
the floor, chair, or cabinet-wall, insist upon having him confined in an
iron cage or barrelled up, with the bunghole open, of course. When
you get into a dark circle grab with all your strength and agility at
every hand that touches you. If you hear a voice, especially in the
direction of the floor, squirt tobacco-juice right straight in that direction,
for you may hit the voice, or the materiahsed head of a spirit, or per¬
chance the feet of the medium.”
Two Spiritualists.—Dr. J. M. Peebles, in the course of an article in
The Banner of Light, says:—I never met Victor Hugo but once, and
that was at a spiritual seance in Paris. Recently he opened the Literary
Congress in Paris with a masterly oration, which the English press pro¬
nounces to be a “ masterpiece of scholarship and eloquence,” but inno¬
cently forgets to tell the reading public that Victor Hugo is a Spiritualist.
Hugo, in his recent great work on “ Shakespeare,” says :—Table¬
turning, or speaking in trance, has been greatly ridiculed; the ridicule
is groundless. To substitute jeering for examination is convenient, but
it is not very philosophical. As for me, I regard it as the duty of science
to fathom all phenomena. Science is ignorant, and has not the right to
laugh ; a savant who laughs at the possible is not far from an idiot. . . .
Science has no other concern with facts than to endorse them ; it is for
her to verify and distinguish. All human knowledge is that of analysis;
that the false complicates itself with the true is no reason for rejecting
the whole in a mass. Since when has chaff been a pretext for refusing
the wheat ? Root out the worthless weeds of error, but harvest the
facts and leave them for others. To elude a phenomenon ; to refuse to
pay it the attention due to it; to bow it out; to close the door on it; to
turn our backs on it, laughing, is to make bankruptcy of the truth—it is
to omit to put to it the signature of science. The phenomenon of the
ancient tripod and of the modern table has a right, like every other, to
observation. Physical science undoubtedly would gain by it; and let
me add that to abandon these phenomena to credulity is to commit
treason against human reason.” On our steamer from Liverpool to St.
John’s, Newfoundland, was that distinguished thinker, explorer, and
naval officer, Admiral Sir E. A. Inglefield, F.R.S., the recently appointed
Commander-in-Chief of the English naval stations of the West Indies
and North America. He was a warm personal friend of Faraday, and
is thoroughly up in the freshest expressions of science. To the disgust
of bigoted sectarians, he is what might be called a Christian Spiritualist.
In 1852 Sir E. A. Inglefield took command of the steamship that went
in search of the unfortunate Sir John Franklin. During this exploration
he outlined new coasts, made important discoveries, and penetrated one
hundred and forty-eight miles further north than Ross, Parry, or any
previous navigator. The year following he was appointed commander
of a Government Arctic Expedition of three of Her Majesty’s ships.
His descriptions of these perilous Polar Sea Expeditions are thrillingly
interesting. The Admiral is the author of several mechanical inventions
connected with navigation ; and also the discoverer of a new theory of
electricity.
84
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 16, 1878.
THE MENTAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL INFLUENCE OF
ACTING.
(From <( The Spectator”)
The death of Charles Mathews—a most regrettable event, for within
a limited range he was an admirable artist—reminds us of a curious
lacuna in the history of the Stage. There does not exist, so far as we
know, certainly there does not exist in English, anything like a good auto¬
biography of an actor, a life describing the intellectual and moral effect
of the profession upon the actor’s self. This effect should be great.
The world believes much, and we think justly, in the effect of books, and
swallows greedily stories of groups of boys made bandits by Schiller’s
“ Robbers,” and every now and then proposes to prohibit “ penny dread¬
fuls ; ” and the effect of reading must be slight compared with that of
acting. It is simply impossible that a man gifted with the sympathies
essential to an actor should be able to realise many characters so com¬
pletely to himself that he can represent them to others, and make them
laugh or weep with his temporary second self, without those characters
exercising some effect upon his mind ; and we want to know both its
kind and its degree. Was Charles Mathews or was he not more of an
agreeable rattle because he incessantly studied how agreeable rattles
should be' depicted? His biographers say that his cool, laughing
insouciance lasted all his long life, and sustained him under all diffi¬
culties, and it is at least possible that it may have been deepened by his
professional assumption of the quality. The effect must be increased
by the process of natural selection, which induces an actor to choose
those parts which he can represent best, and with which, therefore, he
must have a certain nearness of sympathy that one would think must
greatly deepen the impact of their impression upon himself. One
catches qualities from friends who are similar. Elliston, for instance,
perhaps the best known of all actors Of the second rank, had about him
a certain liking at once for graciousness and for pomp which made him
inclined to represent kings ; and he studied so many parts of that kind,
and acted them so well, that his friends all believed in their influence
on his character. He became, as life went on, more and more the kind
of benignant but over-stately and ceremonious grandee that he loved to
represent, regarded all about him from a certain height, as his subjects,
and met the endless difficulties of his career with a feeling which kept
him always cheerful, and which could not be distinguished from
benign condescension towards the creditors, supers, patrons, and
other stupid people with a right to exist who kept trying to ruffle
his serenity. It has now and then happened to an actor to play
a part so well that the public never ceases to demand it, and he himself
has begun to confess to an influence arising from the repetition which
perplexed and worried his mind. We do not know if the saying attri¬
buted to Mrs. Dion Boucicault is true or not, but it exactly represents
our point. Her representation of the dark “ Colleen ” in the Colleen
Hawn so charmed all London that the piece, perhaps the best melo¬
drama ever written, to have no genius in it, went on for hundreds of
nights, till at last the actress declared that she must stop, that her
brain was growing confused, and that “ she began to be uncertain
whether she was acting the Colleen Bawn, or the Colleen Bawn was
acting Mrs. Boucicault.” We have heard Americans say that they
believed that most perfect of actors, Mr. Jefferson, was distinctly modi¬
fied in character, and for the better, by his endless repetitions of Rip
Van Winkle ; and certainly it is difficult to conceive how a man could
create that character, and then pass his life in representing it, without
imbibing in some degree its essential qualities—the spirit of humorous
tolerance and sense of the puzzle of daily life. But one wants direct
evidence of that. Does Mr. Irving, for example, find that when he has
been acting Hamlet for fifty nights the tone of his own inner mind has
become more or less Hamletian ? We say less because, of course, the
chance of an influence of repulsion must always exist, and we can
imagine an actor hating ambition more because he was every night a
Richard III., or growing graver because for part of every day he was
Mercutio. Liston’s incessant playing of fools helped, in all human
probability, to make of him the depressed Evangelical he was; and
we could hardly imagine Mr. Irving less alive to the uselessness of
religious formalism because he had played for seventy nights as
Louis XI. Could a man act Prospero every day for a year, and not
acquire something, however little, of dignified serenity of mind, of the
sense of the power possessed by the immaterial to rule material circum¬
stances ? Or could he be Jaques for a year, and not tend to melancholy
reflectiveness ? It has often been remarked that men to whom life
seems unreal, who have a sense of the histrionic element in it, are
the least dependable of mankind; and of all foibles, absence of
dependableness is the one most frequent with an actor. May not that
be increased by his half-dubiety whether he is himself or that other
man whom every night he seems, to a watching audience, to be ? Can
Mr. Charles Mathews have separated himself entirely from the Sir
Charles Coldstream, of whom the little girl said that she did not
admire that Mr. Mathews, he was so lazy, and all through the play
was only himself. Is Mr. Jefferson ever quite sure, as he walks about,
that Schneider is not at his heels ? That the long repetition of a
dramatic character will make certain physical mannerisms cling to an
actor for months, and even years after he has discontinued the per¬
formance, is quite certain—just watch Mr. Sothern as Garrick—and
why not mental mannerisms too 1 Was there no trace of Lady
Macbeth’s nature, no iron of resolve in Mrs. Siddons, even though she
had acted tragedy, and especially that tragedy, so long that she could
not get rid of her grandeur in private life, and appalled an
unhappy waiter with—
You’ve brought me water, boy I I asked for beer.
The speculation, though it may seem of little importance, is of rare
interest to students of the human mind, and solid evidence about it
might greatly affect education, more particularly by determining
tutors as to the Jesuits’ contention, the utility of an enforced attitude i
of mind in moulding the inner character ; but solid evidence can only
be obtained when some considerable actor, himself a man able enough
and conscious enough to trace the workings of his own mind, shall
delight the world and keep his memory fresh by giving us his auto¬
biography, with accounts in it of other things than his triumphs over
audiences, his difficulties with managers, or his disputes with rivals or
assistants. Such a book would be a treasure.
THE MOST VULGAR FORM OF MATERIALISM.
{From “ Truth.”)
There are men of whose success no one is jealous, others of whose
prosperity no one is envious ; men whom all rejoice to see on the
pinnacle where their long and honourable toil has earned them the right
to stand, and others whose exceptional wellbeing excites now a laugh,
and now a sneer, with the feeling, from the stricter sort, that they would
not have twice that amount of money if they had to get it by half those
dirty practices. For there is no question about it—according to the way
in which things go at this present time, dirty practices pay in pelf if not
in repute. The successful man is always self-betrayed; not always in
the same manner but to the same invariable result. He may be of many
kinds. Let us take first the type dear to novelists—a man of low birth,
with a loud voice and a dictatorial manner, capacious as to his chest and
defective in his English, respectful to no man, deferential to no woman,
worshipping chiefly the wealth which a man has made by his own
exertions, yet not disinclined to hobnob with a title if he can catch one
willing to be treated in a corner—when he brings down his golden feet
heavily on the frayed old patent of nobility, and makes my Lord feel the
force of wealth if not the power of breeding. He is the living monument
of his own greatness, and he takes care that no one shall overlook him
—the clever alchemist who has found the Universal Solvent, and learnt
the secret of transmutation. Perhaps his alkahest was discovered in
the cauldron where he boiled his soap; or he may have picked his gold
out of rags and bones; but, say the experts, by no possibility can he
ever be a gentleman, or even pass muster in the ranks with the rest.
Rich and uncultivated, he hangs, like Mahomet’s coffin, between the
heaven of the aristocrat and the earth of the proletaire. The one will
not have him, and he will not have the other. Even the middle-class
gentry who hold their own, and all of whom he could buy and not feel
the loss, even the rector and the lawyer, the doctor and the half-pay
captain, do not want him. His wealth overpowers them, and his
vulgarity offends. Everything is inharmonious throughout—the man
and his money, the coarse core and the splendid envelope, the lavish
expenditure on all that will make a show, with the certain meanness in
all that speaks of early personal habits. If he does not find friends
among the middle classes, still less does he among the higher; and it is
only when he has bought husbands and wives for his children in the
ranks of the impecunious well-born that he is able to lift up his head
as a man among men, and is not the flying-fish of the neighbourhood,
pecked at by the birds and pursued by the sharks.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Errata.—In Baron Dirckinck-Holtnfeld’s recent article there were several
printer’s errors, chiefly in proper names, due to indistinct writing. The
words “ to Rome,” in a quoted paragraph, should have been between
brackets, as an interpolation by the author.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“'Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writei’.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spij'itualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free.- Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,'
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GIESTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. Gd., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Aug. 16, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by tbe Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. od.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens’ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, whicb, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III.
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . .
The Thinker. ., V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .
Death and the After-Life . . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) .
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers •
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician : or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures . . . . .
s. d.
15 0
7 6
7 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 0
3 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
7 6
6 0
5 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The SpiniitJAUST Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . fi 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-xun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately Rom the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
d scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Hontgomery-strfeet,
Boston, U.S.
opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of <i priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and *hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter Ilf Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Ace there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality In the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Hei bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumslup of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena,
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaser ay—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
latlons Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections ta.
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
Loudon, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1809 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crodkes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage.paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, XI 10s.
London; W. H. Harrison 38, Great Bussell-street, W.O.
Price five shillinga. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Fsychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
Qeneral Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. II. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L.O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greeuleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E > idenee of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hcnsleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar i
rett, F.R.S.E. ,
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist,
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—^Evidence
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood. J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given throug *
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death. ” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakot—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta ”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg — Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A.,Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—'* Love the Truth and Peace." By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci,, Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burka
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon."
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among tha
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voica of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe
Wallace, F R.G. S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 fm' Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A. pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuais
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will he
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
ir
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Aug. 16, 1878.
A
H
NEW ERA.
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE¬
MATURE death BY NATURAL MEANS.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE,IMAGININGS,
LORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use END’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe- The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold ■ a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
I “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
BY WILLIAM H. HARBISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
: Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbelrbewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joel”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Yision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.--
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooolejaw Ballads:—“ No: one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ’’ as The Bon Oaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
FUND’S’ FRUIT SALT.— A Lady writes: —
li “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was on® of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
■gNO’S FRUIT SALT,
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OP INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.  
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
s particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent torm.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ET'NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
li products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or. mistaken for) Heart Disease :—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
orless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
nut very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received) I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state ;the: above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. — I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 80,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent *or Pam—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIR.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accd-
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller. ,
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘ a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
UHow Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.
From The Scotsman.
“ In. Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
thathis subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents... . The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”  I ,    It < . : ;
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist. -. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Higoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feehng which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.”
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous... .
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want hi The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
"A,curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hcmans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up d£ the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s.. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance;—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Previsiofi—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S li ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which - they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct'—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:— Action of Magnets, Ciystals. etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—^Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking- Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Sub'ect—Effects of Odyle—Sonmam:
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc,, Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Scienc
—Due Limits of. Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the G6n$ciOu's or
Waking-State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without theKnowledge of th
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Slee]>—Cases—Perception of Time
|—Cases;- Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Eetrovision.
CHAPTER XIV —Direct' Clairvoyance—Cases—^Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr, D.—Letters of Two Cleyrg-
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Oases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: 'W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by BbveridGe & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’u Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew- above-Bar and St George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C,
