ffiE&ISTEEKD AS A NEWSPAPER.
^^YdSo^oG^idS^ ^Cis<Nd^.
(Dtat m feat intam.
No. 360.—(VOL. XV.—No. 3.) LONDON ; IR1IDA.Y, JULY 18, 1879. Published Weekly 5 Price Twopence.
THE HOLBOM RESTAURANT, 218, HI&H HOLBORI.
One of tlie Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the quiet and order essential to English Customs.
DINNERS AND LUNCHES FROM DAILY BILL OF FARE.
A Table d’Hote, at Separate Tables, every Evening in the Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the
Duke’s Salon,
JUroixi 6 to S,3G9 3s. 6<1.
Including Two Soups, Two kinds of Fish, Two Entries, Joints, Sweets, Cheese (in variety), Salad, &c.,
with Ices and Dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-class Instrumental Music.
Now Ready.
TJie THIRD EDITION of Vol. I. of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
lECHMISI OE MAE.
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes theJMechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. IX., completing the work, and treating of “The Mechanism in Action,”
may be had, price l£s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING
Pure, Fragrant, and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine) that
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin,
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by PEARS, 91, Great Russell-street, London,
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,1
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N,W.
11
July 18, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN
11, 'Chandos Street, Qavendish Square, London, TV'.
President—Me. Serjeant Cox.
This Societywas established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, KW.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAYEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. fid. Trtjbner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8-o’clock for reception of
friends. ' .
N.B.—Mr. Williams’s temporary address during
alterations in the above premises is 13, Miiman-street,
W.O. (corner of new Ormond-street).
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
RECEIVES DAILY AT
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON,
C/o^e to Gowcr-street Station.
Lectures every Sunday evening at Steinway Hall,
Lower Seymour-street, at 7 o’clock precisely. Ad¬
mission Free.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).”
Cloth 8v0. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
T/ie Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : its Place and Function
—Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Revelation—Christianity : its Place and Human Elements.
London: Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &c.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can he built up in a short
•time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health being restored,
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. I do
not confine myself to specialities, but treat all diseases
without medicine whatever. Private circles attended
for developing any form of mediumship; and mes¬
merism or healing taught at patients’ own residence, or
by appointment in Bloomsbury-square. Address all
letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
MRS. LOUIE M. LOWE,
23, TIPPER BAKER STREET, LONDON.
At home from two till five o’clock daily, except Sundays.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o'clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Magnetised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-eourt, S.W.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c.
Just Published.
THU FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HABEISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely hound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-str London, W.C.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIRVOYANTE and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair ; sex and
age required. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism,
Specialities. At home from 12 till 5 p.m. Patients
treated at their homes when desired. 99, Park-street,
Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Hackney spiritual evidence
SOCIETY, 6, Field-vie w-terrace, London-flelds,
E., near Biackstone-road Members’ si&ance, Mondays,
8 p.m. Private materialisation siance, Tuesdays, 8 p.m
Miss Barnes, mesmeric sensitive, who obtains good
rappings, also, as conditions favour, lights, voices,
wriiing, and other psychical phenomena, gives experi¬
mental stances every Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
and Saturday, 8.15 p.m., Sixpence. Private siance
any time, prior arrangement, 6s. Mesmerism taught
personally or by letter, 5s. Sundays, 6.30 p.m., Mes¬
meric Healing; 7, Devotional Meeting; 8, Sfance.—Six-
pence'inclusive. 0. R. WILLIAMS, Sec.
NO SALARY.—A French Lady wishes
to meet with a holiday engagement in a Spirit¬
ualist Family (seven weeks, from 1st of August).
Would do all she could to make herself pleasant and
useful in return for a congenial home.—L. B., care of
Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell-street.
FOLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodg¬
ings on moderate terms. References to Spirit¬
ualists can be given. E. Newman, 11, St. Miohael’a-
terrace, Folkestone.
it
$. to ijf to &yul Ethics ct S|ti^ittr.aU$m,
No. 360,—~Vo^ujvie Fifteen; Number Thf^ee,
Loismoisr, Friday,
uTHE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Pbice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia. Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
C. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme).
Captain John James.
S. O. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Bev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.B.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein).
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, E*q., C.E., F.E.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichard son, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. 0. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., FE.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F-G.S., author of
■ Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Boyal, Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne ; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne; Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia ; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
rnHE SOUL OT THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants; physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review,
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance.or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O,
JUDY IStli, 1879.
THE RELIGION OF SPIRITUALISM.
BY ISABEL DE STEIGEK.
No. II.
“The word adieu is the expression of hope; for all
that is heautiful and good in ns will go to God—h Dieu.
To God all that is love; to God all that isL our highest
ideal.” So says Arsene Houssaye in his recent and
admirable work, The Destinies of the Soul.
I assume that it is proven that we require some fresh
impetus to give us cause for the longed-for feeling of
enthusiasm and emotion. The cry for commonplace or
uncommonplace sensation is one of the proofs. This
seeking after sensation is the vulgar outcome of the
higher want, as the feeling penetrates from one plane
of mind down to another. From the yearning poet and
artist or philosopher, those who in their hearts wish
that the old so-called fables were true, that they could
reproduce with all the fire of their natures the thoughts
engendered by the contemplation of the mighty “myths”
of antiquity,—from these minds demanding freedom for
the expansion of their wings, fluttering aimlessly in the
trammelled present, we come to those which are less
ardent, hut are still seeking after some breathing-place
for the soul. The latter have no ideas beyond the
religion of orthodoxy; the fulfilment of their desire for
sensation, or food for the imaginative faculties, is sought
for in high ritualism, or in startling sermons—sermons
in which something is said out of the common order of
thought; and so on through all classes, from those who
only seek animal pleasures from morning till night, from
year to year, throughout their lives, down to the very
poorest and lowest, whose only idea of the highest
enjoyment of mankind is the excitement of their
starved faculties by the only methods they know—“ crime
and drink.” It is not a particularly bright picture of
the present time, and on its surface it is not a true one ;
but any one who seeks below that surface must know
that it is a true one.
And why is it possible that such a state of things
should be permitted, by either the Being we call
Almighty, or by ourselves, who ought to enjoy, at all
events, the results of all improvements for the welfare of
mankind from past ages to the present century ? The
reply "vEill not seem difficult to Spiritualists; and it is
that we are suffering from spiritual starvation. The
“ materialising theology ” of the present day has at
length almost finished its labours. It has taken us
farther and farther from the source of life for the soul.
By condemning us perpetually to the past it has shut up
that sixth sense which nature has given to every man—
that of the future. The science of the soul is lost, and
man is perishing for the want of it. People feel this,
and so the cry goes upwards, and is reaching its utmost,
strength. No cry has ever ascended for spiritual light
without being heard. This is a law which cannot be
evaded any more than any of our known and demon¬
strated physical ones. An answer therefore is coming
in the great Wave of spiritual force which is sorely
needed on the earth to wash and Tefresh our wearied
souls, and to invigorate and give fresh life to us all.
26
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 18, 1879.
Spiritualism is coming exactly at the time the world |)|
is ready for it. Of course, I know with all Spiritualists K j
that there never has been, and never could have been, a if
time in any sense whatsoever without it, inasmuch as m
man has had a soul since his creation; but what I mean j);
to say is, that the present development of it is arising in !)|
our minds just because we are in a receptive condition, nj
We have emptied our minds, so to speak, and are ready j j
for a fresh influx of divine light. However, as all reli- ju
gions come from God, though some may be more or less j)j
injured in their passage through human channels, so we u{
must look upon Christianity as having been the means HI
of strengthening our reasoning faculties, and stimulating |;|
our moral natures to righteous action. But where it k|
has erred we now see, and that is in the deadening effect j>!
its teaching has had upon us, from the untruth it has
been guilty of in saying that it is all over with revelation, K|
and that there is at present a dead silence on all questions I) j
between man and his Maker—that, for the present, all is Hi
said that is required for our good. And so in this m
deathly silence sleep many souls in the despair of unbe- l(|
lief. Now, as this saying is that of man only, it is not >j
needful for us to take it as from God, without inquiry as )|
to the probability of its absolute truth. It appears more |v|
like an absolute falsehood. And yet this gilded lie has j/j
held us in chains for centuries. For a long time we m
were content in our prison-house j now, starved and m
dying, we struggle for exit and fresh air. The world iff
demands spiritual knowledge. And, lo! the answer comes H j
—not in anger, not in reproach, not in threatenings, j |
as theologists would have us believe, if any answer would 1(1
come at all. We find nothing but love and welcome: nj
words of hope and encouragement are the replies we j(j
hear. And, like dark clouds of storm and cold, the old lyi
fears of the past roll away, and show us the sunshine of j/j
the future—-a sunshine we could all have enjoyed long y
ago, and which was waiting for Us if we would only have j)l
asked for it. This knowledge coming to us is the knowledge I (j
of ourselves, of the powers of our own souls, as taught from | \ j
the old Archaic times by the seers of God's universe, and in \ / j
still older times when these men were sons of God on the I (
earth; and,again, in the times of the so-called occult m
sciences, the sciences pertaining to the emanations of |)|
God’s will upon this planet, and our part and parcel in jyj
it, in which we have a divine right, we being in the j)j
essence of our natures one with Him. Then, again, it ju
was taught in the flood of divine light spreading over j|j
the world through the teaching of Jesus Christ, and (I
subsequently mistaught by those who professed to explain i j
His doctrines to the world. This is the knowledge we /j
should all have had; and the knowledge of the Lord vj
would long ago have covered the land as the waters jj
cover the sea, had it not been for the one grand flaw ! (j
throughout all times, and that was false teaching, and i j I
truths being misinterpreted in permeating through false j) j
mediumship. So the people have always suffered, and (j
religion after religion has died away, not because it | j
was false in itself, but because false teaching became / j
engrafted on its roots. Once upon a time the priests of yj
ancient religions were all true seers and priests. Their jj j
sacred knowledge they held and taught as sacred truths: |
souls were known and distinguished; to the strong, uj
strong food was given; to the weak, what was suitable (j
to their needs. All was peace and harmony for a time, \ j
and then one law after another was infringed and broken, j / j
and the material counterparts of spiritual facts took (j
unlawful positions; so on and on, downward, downward, jf
through all the historic times, we read the one fact that :) j
it is not good for man to dwell alone. As soon as j(|
spiritual pride predominates, and it is said that there is > j
no God, or that we don’t want God; or ideas are ^
invented, and it is said “ This is what God’s teaching is
or should be,” so surely comes spiritual decline. I won’t
say death, but a kind of reverse trance comes over man¬
kind, in which all men’s material faculties are in work¬
ing order, but their spiritual powers are asleep, and so
they deny everything they cannot demonstrate. Most
people are in this trance; and were it not for the strong
crying of those who are not, this miserable sleep of our
higher faculties might go on and on far into the future.
Thanks be to God that He has given His angels charge
over us, and that signs of awakening are seen in all
quarters, and uplifted faces and hands are held to the
golden future. I say “golden future,” a common symbol,
after all, to express that which may be in store for us.
It is in store for us; for we Spiritualists know that what
was formerly called “ mysterious ” and the “ unknown ”
is nothing of the kind; that it was only the laziness and
incapacity of our minds which made the mystery.
If, as Buddha rightly argued, we can contemplate
and appreciate the works of creation, it follows that we
possess somewhat of the faculties of the Creator. Any¬
thing that is actually incomprehensible to us is not per¬
ceived by us; it is as if it did not exist. If, therefore,
we find that we have a spark of the Divinity in us, what
hinders us from fanning that spark ? Nothing. What
would help us 1 Seeking God ? Yes ! We are told,
“ Can we, by searching, find out God ?” No! we can’t,
if we look in the wrong places, and the right ones
every man’s soul knows. Yague directions, vague teachings
and preachings, have been, however, our bane for centuries,
and we ought to have done with these; for modern
Spiritualism teaches us how as nothing else yet has done.
It gives no “uncertain sound” or vague directions,
telling us to have faith and all will be well; it gives us
no material counterparts, and tells us we must imagine
spiritual ones. We try to live upon this imagination;
but our souls have a material side, that is, they require
suitable sustenance, and don’t find it in orthodoxy.
Spiritualism has no forms and ceremonies, or outside
shows, from which the spirit has fled; nor monotonous
services which still go on and on while men wonder at
the want of spiritual life in them. Spiritualism has
nothing of this, but it says to the soul of each person,
“ You live, and you can prove and know that you live
now and will live hereafter; and there is no mystery or
science in the matter; the knowledge is meant for all.”
Such is the opening Spiritualism affords us. No need
for the poet and artist to go back to spiritual life in old
times, and to sigh for the beauty of Aphrodite, or the
devotion of Alcestis, or the great deeds of Ulysses, to
express the devotion and enthusiasm of their natures;
what has been, can be done by man, if once more inspired
to grand action. No need for people to bury their
feelings in ritual or services which go no higher than
the roofs of their cathedrals : if once the enthusiasm and
glory of true worship are kindled, when once doubt is for
ever removed by the knowledge that that doubt is mere
black ignorance; if once all the divine faculties of man
are kindled in the flame of true devotion and true
enthusiasm; if men Jcnoiv God, if they have found Him,
what is to hinder them building finer and larger temples
than were ever built in the world before 1 And when
once they understand and know the divine law of medium-
ship, what is to hinder our having grander prophets than
ever we had before ? What is to prevent higher truths
descending into our midst ? If Christ said—and He did
say so—that where two or three are gathered together in
His name there will He be in the midst of them, what
will prevent Him doing so, when the real spiritual
stance is held—the real communion of saints ? There
will be no doubt of His appearance and presence then.
July 18, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 27
In vain now is it said so over and over again of the Kj
material counterpart, that empty form, the Lord’s >:f
Supper, the eucharist of the Church. In vain the priests j) I
and clergy multiply its celebration; in vain, for “He |\|
cometh not.” The divine law necessary for His appear- |)|
ance is unknown or broken, and He cannot come. Kl
But the time is coming when these material counter- j \ j
parts of the spiritual realities will disappear, and soon i)|
in London will be laid the foundation stone for the first j \ j
temple of the living Cod, whom we have had since the i)!
days of old. We have long tried to worship, and built |||
places for the worship of a sleeping Cod. We say, or j|j
act at least, as if He were sleeping, and our worship is m
the worship that one would pay to a sleeping Cod, as n|
long as we maintain that He never manifests Himself in j) j
any way whatsoever nowadays ; and though our clergy | \ j
will—so little do they understand what they are talking j) I
about—solemnly maintain that the Ineffable Being, the j(j
Sacred One whose name we cannot even utter, spoke j)j
personally to Cideon, and arranged the whole plan of !/|
the dry or bedewed fleece, and though He in those days Kj
gave personal communications about comparatively j)j
trivial matters in one small corner of the earth, He has jp
now refused for centuries to the whole world and the j)j
greatest minds in it, who interrogate on the most im- j)j
portant topics of the universe, the very slightest j)j
acknowledgment of His presence at all. No ! Spirit- }1
ualists do not worship a sleeping Cod; they do not iff
require to be told, with the fine irony of the followers of j ||
Elijah, that their Cod is only a human being like them- j < j
selves. On the contrary, this is what we tell the |»
world. We say to the priests of Baal, “You have j)j
raised up a God according to the sum of your know- j yj
ledge; and because you know no more, you say it is j)j
irreligious to inquire more : we, the worshippers of a j(i
real living God, know that there is no end to know- nj
ledge, and that the Author and Being of us all is as j)j
ever the essence, and origin, and sustainer of the -j\j
universe.” r !(!
Once upon a time three philosophers were talking j(j
under a portico. They were speaking of the gods. One j > j
ignorant pretender declared that he knew of no life after j < j
death, therefore there was none. “My friend,” said j)j
one of the others to him, looking down from aloft from j)j
his spiritual plane—“My friend, go and die three or jsj
four times, then come to me, and after that you may j)j
speak to me under this portico.” 1)1
Yes. Experience can teach us some truth, if not all j)j
truth; we have had, at all events, the experience what it j)j
is to live under the dominion of a sleeping Cod; and i \ j
the truth it teaches us is, that as things are so very !>j
wrong, perhaps the error may be in us, and not in Cod j(j
at all. We know that He has given us this world as a j>]
garden to live in, flourish in, and develop our faculties j(j
in, whereas we are vegetating only. We believe in the nj
great alchemist nature, but not in the real mission of his j)j
crucible death; at least, we talk vaguely enough about Kl
it, and the uses of this crucible. We say that it sends us j/j
somehow to the kingdom of this sleeping God, in whose j<j
deaf ear we shall at once begin to sing psalms, of whose j>j
authorship no one knows. But it is wearisome to go j/i
over the .tedious list of our mis- or non-beliefs, so many j(j
of us are beginning to know them so well, and so ])j
many also know therefore so much better, and so j(|
many know, too, that they must gird up their loins j|j
to receive and respond to the wave of spiritual food m
which comes now, and will come with still greater !(j
strength amongst us all. Girt with this strength j)j
and power we shall be ready to welcome the religion of j\i
the future. A while ago I said and wrote that I did not j) j
suppose or presuppose that Spiritualism could mean a
new religion. I don’t say so now either. “A new
religion.” No religion can be in its essence “ new; ” it
must always be a reformation—that is, a continual
righting of the deviations of a compass, which ought
always to point to an eternal truth; but I do say that
all existing religions must be reformed by Spiritualism,
or that they will cease to exist at all. Spiritualism is
the only thing on this earth that contains within itself
the true kernel of knowledge, and the clue to the
future. It is a development of old sciences, and one
required for our needs; within its precincts will be con¬
tained all that there is of the future for our race, as far
as the coming cycle is concerned:—the philosophy, the
music, the art, the literature of the future. There is no
limit to the development of the spirit, as our sacred
writers tell us. By these I do not mean only those whose
writings are bound up in the book called the Bible, but
all through whose writings God’s Spirit has spoken, from
Plato and Swedenborg to Boehme or Harris, or any
other seer, whose sixth sense Cod has opened. These
writings will then be understood, and not estimated, as
they are, by the unenlightened—that is, by most minds
-—as the ravings of hallucinationists or madmen; and they
will be looked upon as Bibles; and who knows but that
Bibles may come and Bibles may go ad infinitum, for as
knowledge increases we shall want fresh food.
We want it, at all events, now, and we look for real
spiritual teachers who can tell us more than we know
ourselves, and through whose mediumship the reforma¬
tion of our souls can begin : with that our emotions and
our enthusiasm will spring joyfully forth; we shall not
question Is life worth living ? ” “ Do we wish we were
out of it ? ” Such thoughts will be far from us. Life
will be but a bright resting-place for our bodies while
our souls are preparing for their flight to the next
sphere, and we shall none of us think of wishing to be
out of it while we have work to do in this world, both
to the suffering souls and bodies of those amongst us
still in the darkness of superstition and still sleeping,
worshipping their imaginary sleeping Deity.. We have
also work to do for the souls of those who have passed
from among us, either in sin or violence^ and who are
still causing sorrow and death in our midst.
This last is a great work for Spiritualists, and until it
is accomplished, and until “ the souls that are in prison ”
are released, and they no longer come to instil evil into
the world; until then we cannot hope for peace on earth.
All evil influences must be removed from without and
from within before our task is ended in this world, or
the next, or in any of the next worlds. But there will
be no dulness in this life, no aimlessness, no stagnation
when this work is understood, and it 'is now understood
by many people. Death will be no longer the tragedy
taught by Mr. Greg, nor life any longer the needless
martyrdom, to serve no end, taught by Winwood Reade.
He teaches us better, no doubt, now; but life is simply a
station on the road, and we each of us, as not taught by
theology, take our own path. Some of us, at our peril,
take tortuous and dangerous ones, and we shall suffer;
but all these roads Lave but one ending. It is our duty
as Spiritualists to light the lamps and point the way,
instead of being ashamed of our calling, and holding or
shielding our belief under the shelter of this or that
great name known to the material world as great in
philosophy, or science, or religion. We ought to cry
shame upon ourselves for so doing; and if the lamp of
truth is put into our hands to show to mankind, let us
boldly do so, and not mind if in our ranks are to be
found only the unknown and humble in this world. He
will be the greatest pioneer who trims his light and
keeps it burning best; and it should signify nothing to
28
THE SPIRITUALIST. July 18, 1879.
us if distinguished names are absent. They ought not to j
be distinguished to us, who should own no hierarchy but j
that of the soul; so for ever let us put aside this con- j
temptible habit of quoting known names to support us.
If our house is built on the rock—as we know it is—it !
needs no other support, and those among us who look
for props outside are unworthy to dwell within. We.
have all of us something to look forward to—hope and I
peace.
«» 
BRITISH MUSEUM LECTURES.
Yesterday Dr. Carter Blake delivered the first of this
series in the Geological Gallery on the “ Class of Fishes,
and the Modes of Preservation of Fossils.” The lecturer j
pointed out in detail the character of the Ganoid fishes
and the relations borne by them to the lower amphibia.
He selected a few types for consideration, such types f
being those of the more common fossil forms from the ]!
chalk formations. He commenced subsequently the class f
of Reptilia.—The Times, July 8, 1879.
The second of this course was delivered by Dr. Carter |'
Blake yesterday in the Geological Gallery. Commencing j(
with the lowest forms he gave an account of the remains |'
of fossil birds, of a type allied to Odontopteryx, which j]
had been discovered in various secondary and tertiary j
rocks. The evidences of other fossil remains of birds
belonging to the strata of the chalk were described in j
detail.—TAe Times, July 10, 1879.
The third of the British Museum lectures was delivered
yesterday. After a few introductory remarks by Dr. j
Carter Blake, Mr. H. St. Chad Boscawen, F.S.A., spoke
at length in the Assyrian Gallery on some of the recent I <
discoveries which have been made, as well as giving a j]
general description of the sculptures of the reigns of j<
Assur-dan-ipal (Sardanapalus) and of Sennacherib in the jj
basement Assyrian Gallery. The class was excessively
numerous, and the crowd great, owing to the limited H
space. The President of the Arya Samaj of Bombay (a j!
Hindoo) was present.—The Times, July 12, 1879. |<
The last of this series was delivered yesterday by Dr. \\
Carter Blake in the Geological Gallery. He entered at |<
length into the description of the fossil forms of South ||
America, selecting the glyptodon, megatherium, and |(
toxodon as examples. Subsequently he gave a minute jj
description of the characters of the vegetable-feeding j)
as contrasted with the carnivorous pouch-bearing : j(
animals of Australia. At the close of the course, he jj
stated that he was “anxious to divest his lectures j<
from all appearance of Museum authority,” and, while jj
accepting full responsibility for the conduct of his class, j)
returned his sincere thanks to the authorities of the I
British Museum for the privilege and facilities accorded j
him.—The Times, July 15, 1879. jj
Some Spiritualists and others were present at this j j
course, including the Rev. P. Melia, D.D.; the Rev. J. ; (
Nolte, D.D.; the Rev. W. W. Newbould, M.A., F.L.S.; : !
Prof. R. Owen, F.R.S., C.B.; Mr. E. A. Bond, F.S.A., j
principal librarian of the British Museum; Mr. E. T. jj
Wakefield, Mrs. Lowe, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. S. jj
Burasjoon, of Mossul ; Dr. Herschell, Mr. J. Mew, jj
B.A. ; Mr. C. Carleton Massey, Dr. Perfitt, and jj
Mrs. Clay. jj
No pleasure is comparable to the standing upon the vantage
ground of truth (a hill not to be commanded, and where the air
is always clear and serene), and to see the errors and wanderings,
and mists and tempests in the vale, below; so always that this
prospect be with pity, and not with swelling pride. Certainly it
is heaven upon earth to have a man’s mind move in charity, rest
in Providence, and turn upon the jewels of truth.—icon’s
Essays,
THE RELIGION OE SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—In my good friend Madame de Steiger’s essay on “ The
Religion of Spiritualism ” occur two remarks which seem to me
to be almost as untrue as it is possible for words to be.
She says “Christianity has done its duty well, but its purposes
are now ended,’5 and again “ Christianity has dimmed the spiritual
side of humanity, and taken out its poetry.5’
These statements appear to me to be utterly contradicted by
fact. In the first place, I should say that the many churches and
the innumerable sects have most signally failed to do their duty
well as exponents of Christianity, having expended their force in
attempts to set up theological dogmas in the place of the life and
teachings of Christ, and in aiming at self-aggrandisement instead
of self-sacrifice.
Far from the “ purposes of Christianity being now ended,” it
is infinitely truer to say that the grand purposes of Christianity
would appear, after eighteen hundred years of misnnderstanding,
to be only now beginning to be understood and acted upon by the
advancement and spread of a spirit of mutual forbearance and
charity, and the teachings of a broad Christian philanthropy.
Again, how can it possibly be said that “ Christianity has
dimmed the spiritual side of humanity and taken out its poetry?”
Surely the very reverse of this is true; for where can the
ancient Pagan world show any parallel to the spiritual, artistic,
and poetic memories and emotions which are called up by the
names of Dante, Michael Angelo, St. Francis, St. Teresa,
Savonarola, Shakespeare, Fen61on, Madame Guyon, Pascal,
Beethoven, Mozart, Chalmers, Channing, Martineau, Longfellow,
Maurice, Robertson, Tennyson, Swedenborg, and hundreds of
others, all more or less truly and profoundly Christian ?
But it would seem that these men and women, their love, and
works, and faith, are to vanish before the newer light of modern
Spiritualism!
So far as I have been able to see, the light of public
Spiritualism is chiefly darkness.
We have dark seances with chairs and tables moving here and
there, and John King floating overhead and chaffing his audience !
Or we have dark cabinets, out of which are thrust bundles of
muslin, presented to us as angels from the seventh heavens,
amid the sobs of weeping women!
Or we have **inspirational orators ” in America preaching
doctrines of abomination, or in old-fashioned England sneering at
Christianity, and presenting us with imbecile namby-pamby
verbiage in its place !
Nevertheless, true Christianity, the essence of which is love to
God and man, has been expressed by doctrines and illustrated by
a life which cannot possibly be surpassed.
Let any man or woman truly attempt to live up to the
Christian standard, and he or she will very quickly discover that
it is infinite in its applications, and contains the highest possible
revelation which the human mind can conceive.
George Wyld, M.D.
Sir,—Madame de Steiger’s article suggests so many thoughts
that I hope that all critical remarks may be postponed till after
the publication of the series. With a view, however, to simplify
the controversy which will inevitably arise, to facilitate the efforts
which will doubtless be made to sweep out of her way ignorant
persons like myself, and to enable your readers to give a definite
“ Aye55 or “ No ” to any propositions that may be laid down, I
hope that her sentiment of kind feminine pity may induce her to
give some definition of the following words and phrases used
by her: “ Religion,55 “ Spiritualism,” “ Spiritualists,55 “ Chris¬
tianity in its various forms or phases,55 “ Church of Christendom,55
“Point of faith,” “Orthodox party,” “Unorthodox [party],55 and
“ Our religious guides.55
Possibly, in the history of this planet, various definitions have
been given of these phrases, which the proverb error latet in
generalibus may condemn. Late controversies perhaps indicate
that some different interpretations have been given by various
persons., Madame de Steiger is, of course, only concerned with
her own definitions, and the above eight are perhaps sufficient
for a week or so. C. Carter Blake.
THE HIGHER USES OP MESMERISM.
Sir,—A young gentleman of strong medial powers, who is
developing for clairvoyance and physical manifestations, has been
July 18, 1879.
29
THE SPIRI
advised (spiritually) to have himself mesmerised in order to j(j
facilitate his progress. | |||
Will any of your readers, who is au experienced (non- m
professional) mesmerist, kindly give his aid ? |) i
The case may probably afford an interesting experiment in j/j
relation to the higher uses of mesmerism, Tull particulars given i (j
on application to • > i
Leuius, 21, dower-street, W.O. m
July 15, 1879.   |j!
VISITOES TO THIRTY-EIGHT GREAT RTJSSELIrSTREET. M
Sir,—It is always worth while to answer Mr, Stainton Moses, j |
but it is not usually so easy to do so as in this instance. ) j
He is discursive, and wanders from the point. I will recall it (j
for those who may care to form a judgment on the proceeding jj
in question, |f|
Reading Mr. Bennett's letter to Dr. Carter Blake by itself, j/|
every one would have inferred that Dr. Blake had been a constant, | (j
or very frequent visitor to the rooms since his resignation. In i \ j
that case the prohibition addressed to him would have been quite i) j
justifiable, without supposing any special reason in the judgment j>i
of the Council, for excluding him. Had our information rested j) |
there, the reply of the Council to Mrs. Lowe was complete and !(j
obvious. But Dr. Blake had cut away the foundation of the |\
defence by his letter in your paper of the 23rd May. In this he j > j
informed us that, so far from continuing to use the privilege of a !) j
member, he had only availed himself of the invitation to visitors i (j
to the extent of two calls in two months. Now, let us suppose m
anything we like, within permissible limits, against Dr. Blake, hj
and I would ash how, in the name of common sense, could the j) I
repetition of these casual calls, at distant intervals, be prejudicial j (j
to the Association ? How can we believe that it seemed so to K
the Council? But Dr. Blake’s statement was not contradicted if
in their letter to Mrs. Lowe. We had, therefore, to choose j)
between two suppositions—either that it was intended to inflict j (
a gratuitous insult upon Dr. Blake individually, or that it was a j (
vindictive proceeding, to which all the seceders might equally be 1 v
exposed by calling at the rooms. j /
Dr. Blake assumed that the latter must be the true explanation, j)
and I followed him in adopting it. I could not but remember j (|
that act of small revenge upon the editor of The Spiritualist, K|
which, and the manner of which, disgusted so many of us into j)|
retirement. Does Mr. Stainton Moses tell us that we are mis- j)j
taken? Not a bit of it. Does he say, contrary to the statement \h
of Dr. Blake, that it was necessary to stop the visits of the latter I \ I
on account of their frequency? No. Does he tell us what the |M
proceeding did mean, if not what we supposed ? No. I drew an j) j
inference, in which I might be personally concerned, and Mr. j(|
Stainton Moses does not say that my inference was erroneous, iyj
Mrs. Lowe resigned because she disapproved of the exercise of a m
right, and he tells her that she has “ignored” the right. Some- j)j
body from outside has described the “ National ” Association | (|
as only a London club, and therefore a member is inconsistent j (j
who questions the motives from which a club right is exercised. I) j
It is all “they” with Mr. Moses, though Mrs, Lowe has never i)|
disparaged the position of the Association, and I have never j / j
imputed to it bigotry. “ They ” shift their ground, though I i (I
have had but one say on the subject; and Mrs. Lowe, while j(j
politely accepting a disclaimer, has only pointed out a logical |)i
alternative which she considers not less objectionable than her j)i
first supposition. Then “ they ” are “ self-appointed critics,” and j (j
this phrase conventionally veils a suggestion of impertinence. |\.j
Why, what are you, the Association, according to your own 1)1
account, that any criticism of your proceedings should be objected I) I
to on that ground? You call yourselves a “ National” Associa- |(l
tion of Spiritualists; and are Spiritualists not to question your j \ j
acts and pretensions? You pose before the public as repre- |>[
senting us all; and if we say you don’t, and that you are only i) j
a club, then are we inconsistent, as if our right of criticism j (|
were limited by our estimate of you, instead of being co-extensive I (|
with your professions. I will not say that only a “mind j||
beclouded by prejudice” can perpetrate such reasoning as the
above, but I must say that it is as little conducive to contro- j)|
versial clearness as is that phrase to controversial amenity. | (|
I certainly did not intend to “ assail ” Mr. Calder (for whom I jjf
have a sincere respect) in the pas'sing allusion I made to his j§Q
language, and if there is any use or meaning in inverted commas, ; /j
I have not misrepresented him. I wrote inferentially, as I sup- I (j
posed any one would see from the position of the quotation i(|
marks in the phrase “weak and feeble” persons. And does it m
not occur to Mr. Stainton Moses that if the Council wish to be i/S
TUALIST.
left alone, they had better leave others alone, and not publicly
describe our acts and reasons as “weak,” “feeble,” and
“ idle ” ? Of course, they are quite at liberty so to attack us (by
way of inviting our return), but then they should not cry out and
ask to be “ left alone ” if we hit back.
Wishing your columns a speedy relief from these not very
edifying topics, which I cannot find even “ amusing,” I am, sir,
your obedient servant, C. C. Massey,
Temple, July 12th.
THE PRINCE IMPERIAL’S PRAYER.
Among the papers in the desk; of the late Prince
Imperial was found in his own handwriting the following
prayer, written in French. “ The elucidation of his high
character alone,” says the Morning Post, “justifies the
publication of a sacred document which will prove to the
world how intimately he was penetrated with all the
feelings which most become a Christian, and which give
higher hopes than are afforded by the pains and perils of
this transitory life.” The last two paragraphs exhibit his
sympathy with Spiritualism;—
My God: I give to Thee my heart, but give to me
faith. Without faith there is no strong prayer, and to
pray is a longing of my soul. I pray, not that Thou
shouldest take away the obstacles in my path, but that
Thou mayest permit me to overcome them. I pray, not
that Thou shouldest disarm my enemies, but that Thou
shouldest aid me to conquer myself.
Hear, 0 God! my prayer. Preserve to my aflfection
those who are dear to me. Grant them happy days. If
Thou onlygivest on this earth a certain sum of joy, take,
0 God, my share, and bestow it on the most worthy, and
may the most worthy be my friends. If Thou seekest
vengeance upon man, strike me.
Misfortune is converted into happiness by the sweet
thought that those whom we love are happy.
Happiness is poisoned by the bitter thought; While I
rejoice, those whom I love a thousand times better than
myself are suffering.
For me, 0 God! no more happiness. Take it from
my path. I can only find joy in forgetting the past. If
I forget those who are no more I shall be forgotten in
my turn, and how sad the thought which makes one
say, “ Time effaces all!”
The only satisfaction I seek is that which lasts for
ever, that which is given by a tranquil conscience. 0,
my God, show me ever where my duty lies, and give
me strength to accomplish it always.
Arrived at the term of my life, I shall turn my looks
fearlessly to the past. Remembrance will not be for me
a long remorse. Then I shall be happy.
Grant, 0 God ! that my heart may be penetrated with
the conviction that those whom I love, and who are dead,
shall see all my actions.
My life shall be worthy of their witness, and my inner*
most thought shall never make them blush.
Last week, in error, the name of Mr. J. W. Fletcher was
published instead of that of Mrs. J. W. Fletcher, in the list of
those _ who have _ just resigned membership of the National
Association of Spiritualists.
Is it not some reproach on the economy of Providence that
such a one, who is a mean, dirty fellow, should have amassed
wealth enough to buy half a nation? Not in the least. He
made himself a mean, dirty fellow for that very end. He paid
his health, his conscience, his liberty, for it, and will you envy
him his bargain ?—Barbauld,
00
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 18, 1879.
THE DAILY CHRONICLE ON SPIRITUALISM.
In the provinces one among the penny daily news- j)
papers in several of the large towns not unfrequently j(
tells the truth about Spiritualism. In London this has |j
not been the case, until of late the Daily Chronicle has jj
sometimes reported Spiritualistic meetings without bias, |<
and dealt with the whole subject in a fair and rational I
way. All the other London penny papers have simply i)
bespattered the whole subject with misrepresentation n
and abuse, except in a few isolated instances. They have j(
never taken any trouble to investigate the matter, and j)
Seem to be nearly dead to all sense of moral responsi- j \
bility. The Times and Punch have always dealt fairly j(
with Spiritualism, and in London the general rule has j)
been that the more respectable the journal, and the o
higher its class of readers, the more truthful has it been j<
in relation to psychology and its phenomena. But among i /
the penny papers, the Daily Chronicle at last shows a | In¬
disposition to treat Spiritualism as fairly as any other K
subject, so the least Spiritualists can do is to support j)
that journal in return, and it cannot but find the adhesion )
of so large and influential a body to be exceedingly js
beneficial to its interests. K
The following leading article is from the Daily Chronicle j.)
of last Friday :— j>
There has recently appeared in the City of New York a |
clairvoyant who adds to his gifts of Spiritualism that of j)
clairaudience, which may be described as the faculty of j\
hearing angels’ whispers and the low-toned conversation j)
of those ethereal beings of the other and supernatural |<
world. The new medium has published a work on the >
subject of the new discovery, and the sceptics and the j)
credulous are said to be rapidly buying it up, inasmuch K
as it is the work of a man of superior education, who j)
until recently would only believe what he could see or j(
understand to exist by putting it to the test of j;
his five senses. Whilst this convert is reviving the K
drooping hopes of Spiritualists in New York, a young n
lady is causing quite a sensation in San Francisco by her j)
“ marvellous power over the spirits of the defunct friends K
of all her visitors.” Knowing only the English language, j;
she possessed a wonderful facility in compelling the im- }<
mortals to communicate their thoughts in any language i)
which their living friends may indicate. A gentleman, j)
whose testimony is said to be unimpeachable, and whose <
faith in clairvoyance was previously at zero, has made
public the result of his visit to this wonderful medium. i(
He took the precaution to arm himself with a double K
slate, hinged strongly, and so made that when folded no |)
human ingenuity could insert any writing instrument to \
the interior, and before entering the house of the medium, j)
he placed a piece of genuine pencil within it. Without j (
inquiring into the peculiar construction of the slate, I
the lady asked the especial object of her visitor’s |)
call. On being informed of it she laid one hand on the K
wooden cover of the slate, and immediately a scratching j)
noise was heard. She withdrew her touch, and the i<
sound at once ceased. The visitor opened his double |
elate, and found one side written closely over in English i /
in a clear and bold hand, whilst on the other the answers j \
were written in French. Though his incredulity was fast j)
being sapped, he begged another trial. After cleaning ||
the slate, he closed it and held it tightly between his two !>
hands, and on this occasion the medium did not even !<
touch it. At a wave from her hand, the scratching noise K
was repeated, and ceased when she motioned negatively ^
with her head. The whole slate, on being opened, was
found to be covered with answers, all in English, to the
holder’s previous questions. During this manifestation
of power strange “ rappings” were heard ; the air seemed
charged with murmurings of soft voices. Later on, the
lady astonished her visitor by commanding a trumpet to
sail round the room, which the instrument did in a series
of gyrations, during the whole time emitting sounds and
speaking words as if with a human voice. The lady does
not pretend to read the future, nor does she cause the
spirits to indulge in prophecies. With the dead, how¬
ever, she claims to hold communion, and she asserts her
power of summoning to her presence the departed friends
or relations of any person living who will honour her with
a call, and, of course, with a fee I
ARRIVAL OF A NEW AMERICAN MEDIUM.
Mrs. Louie M. Lowe, a celebrated American medium,
has just arrived in London, at 23, Upper Baker-street,
and intends to remain for three or four weeks before de¬
parting for France. She is accompanied by her hus¬
band, and she has brought us a letter of introduction
from Mr. J. L. O’Sullivan, New York, who testifies to
remarkable and exceptional phenomena he has seen in
her presence. The columns of the Banner of Light have
often been largely filled with descriptions by Mr. Newton
and others of the phenomena which take place through
her mediumship. In America she has frequently ap¬
peared before large audiences, and given public tests
relating to the problem of spirit identity, and in private
she obtains strong physical manifestations.
Departure op Mr. and Mrs. Tebb por America.—On
Wednesday afternoon Mr. and Mrs. William Tebb left London,
and yesterday afternoon sailed from Liverpool in The City 0}
Berlin for New York. After a few days’ stay in that city they
will go up the Hudson to the Katskill Mountains, the scene of
the somnolent feat of Rip Van Winkle; thence they will proceed
to Lake George, afterwards to Montreal and Quebec, and, after
visiting Philadelphia and Boston, will return to London in about
three months’ time. Mr. Tebb is travelling for the benefit of his
health, which has been considerably weakened by his prolonged
resistance to the unsuccessful attempts of the St. Pancras
authorities to force him to vaccinate his child Beatrice. Mr.
and Mrs. Tebb are among the most active workers connected
with Spiritualism in England; their names are also connected
with a multiplicity of good works for the benefit of the helpless
and afflicted.
A Jewish Sabbath.—Mr. A. L. Green, a Jewish gentleman,
writes to the London Express to correct a very common mistake
regarding the observance of the Sabbath. He says:—“ Accord¬
ing to Jewish law and practice, intelligent recreation and even
amusements which carry with them nothing vicious or degrading,
are not only permissible but are enjoined for the due observance
of the Sabbath. Our reading rooms are open on the Sabbath,
and the most pious Jews take pleasure, as well they msw, in
visiting art galleries and museums on the Sabbath day. We are
punctilious in regard to servile work. We would not, for
instance, permit our servants to remain outside the church
listening to the neighing of carriage horses while the devout con¬
gregation inside were listening to the Bishop eloquently remind¬
ing his absorbed listeners that the blessings of a Sabbath day
must extend to all men alike, even if they are servants, and to all
beasts, even if they are carriage horses; and that the prohibition
against servile work should in Mosaism be associated with what,
to us, may appear untold rigour, is perfectly natural when we
reflect that the inhibitions were primarily addressed to a nation
just emancipated from a cruel and long-continued bondage, and
who, on the one hand, had to be elevated to a knowledge of the
dignity of labour, and to the appreciation of intellectual culture
on the other hand. One visit to the house of an observant Jew
on the Sabbath day would do more to give Christians a clear and
comprehensive notion of the serene and happy social influence of
the Sabbath and the true religious character of Jewish home life,
and how important a place the Sabbath occupies in Judaism, than
the most graphic delineation in word painting.
July 18, 1879,
EXTRAORDINARY PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA
IN DAMASCUS.
The following narrative is from the Sun (New York)
of July 1st. Similar records, but more lacking in details,
have sometimes been printed by travellers of repute, but
if some recognised scientific authority like Captain Burton
would carefully verify the facts, there would be a feeling
of more security henceforth, in building theories upon
them. Notwithstanding Madame de Steiger’s closing re¬
marks in another column, there is a limited amount of use
in authority:—
Damascus, May 30th.
In this most quaint and ancient of Oriental cities
there is a quarter called the Meidan. It stretches away
from the almost circular town in a long, narrow suburb
to the south, like the handle of a frying-pan, and is of
all parts of Damascus the most characteristic. It is the
road by which the Hadj, or pilgrimage to Mecca, leaves
Damascus, and it is the road by which long caravans
from the Hauran and southern deserts enter the city. It
terminates in the Bawabet Allah, or God’s Gate; and its
mixed commercial and sacred character has attracted a
curious floating population of dervishes and religious
devotees, and of Bedouins, Kurds, and Druses, who are
in trading relations with the Hauran or more distant
oases. On the right-hand side and not far from the end
of the street is a small, unpretentious house. Indeed,
many of the houses in the Meidan are little better than
hovels; but this one house can boast a small courtyard,
at the further end of which is the usual room, entirely
open to the court on one side, while it opens into the rest
of the house, and is surrounded by divans on the other
sides. In this court are two or three orange trees in
blossom, and it is overlooked by the flat roofs of neigh¬
bouring houses, where closely-veiled women can squat in
rows and take part in any ceremony of interest of which
the courtyard may be the scene.
This little house contains a very remarkable per¬
sonage, not much known excepting to Moslems, and not
altogether approved by some of them; but among the
poorer classes enjoying an immense reputation, and alto¬
gether holding a position which it would not be safe to
treat with contempt. His name is Sheikh Ruslan
Abouton, and I discovered him, with the help of the
police, in my search after living curiosities, in which I
take a deeper interest than in Cuphic coins or Damascene
blades. He was the hereditary Grand Sheikh of the
Dervish Order of the Bedawi, founded about five hundred
years ago by the well-known Moslem saint, Sheikh Said
Ahmed El Bedawi, whose tomb is still a place of pil¬
grimage for his followers, and is to be found in the old
Crusaders’ Church of Tantah, in Egypt. At the present
moment the order numbers about ten thousand members,
scattered throughout Islam, but they all own allegiance
to the Sheikh Ruslan at Damascus, who claims to be a
lineal descendant of the great founder, and to whom
have been transmitted the supernatural powers with
which his ancestor was endowed. Such powers, how¬
ever, are by no means confined to Sheikh Ruslan and
his disciples, but exist to a greater or less extent in
three other orders, viz., the Kilani, the Rifai, and the
Sukki.
But my friend the Bedawi Sheikh maintained that he
had certain gifts which none of them possessed, while
they had none which he could not exercise. At any
rate, I was anxious to see his powers put to the test,
and, accompanied by some friends stimulated by the
same curiosity, we made an expedition to the Meidan
one afternoon, and found the little courtyard half full of
people, and the neighbouring housetops thickly occupied
by female spectators. Among those assembled in the
81
court were two or three wild-looking men, stripped to
the waist, while others, clothed, but apparently not alto¬
gether in their right mind, were about to take part in
the performance. The Sheikh’s eldest son, a particularly
handsome boy, with the large, lustrous eyes of the
gazelle, was a conspicuous figure in the group, while the
Sheikh himself was a man whose countenance and bearing
stamped him at once as not being of the common herd.
His face was somewhat of a Jewish type; the short grey
beard and moustache partially concealed a mouth
decidedly pleasing in its expression; the eyes were bright
and piercing, and the nose was aquiline.
Taking a handful of skewers similar to those used for
cooking purposes, each about a foot long, he called the
eldest half-stripped disciple to him, and opening his
mouth, muttering the while with great apparent intensity
of concentration a prayer or invocation, he with a sudden
jerk forced the point clean through the cheek, so that it
could be seen projecting on the other side. He repeated
the process with the other cheek, the man showing no
sign of pain, and not a drop of blood flowing from the
wound. He then went to his son, who calmly gazed at
him with his large swimming eyes, opened his mouth,
and received a similar stab through the cheek without
the quiver of an eyelid. I was watching him closely,
and could not observe the slightest muscular contraction.
The point was clearly projecting through the skin, and
deception was impossible, as there was every opportunity
afforded for the closest inspection. Leaving the two
victims with their mouths thus trussed, as it were, the
Sheikh took a square box, which, when it was opened,
was found to contain several live scorpions of unusual
size. Taking up one of these, as large as an ordinary
land crab, he handed it, all wriggling, darting its tail in
its efforts to sting, to a man who came forward, and
calmly but rapidly dropped it into his mouth, and
crunched it with great apparent relish, eating it com¬
pletely up. Then we saw a much larger box, containing
serpents of various sizes. These he turned out upon the
floor, dominating them after the manner of serpent
charmers, and allowing them to twine and curl round
him. In this, of course, there was nothing marvellous,
nor indeed in what immediately followed, though it was
sickening to behold. Drawing a live snake about two
feet long out of the box, he held it up by the tail,
when suddenly a tall man, afflicted apparently with St.
Vitus’s dance, with hair dishevelled, rushed forward with
a loud cry, and with foaming lips seized the snake with
both hands, tore it violently asunder, and plunged its
bloody and palpitating end into his mouth. This seemed
the signal for a general scramble. In a moment three
or four men were tearing the writhing fragments with
their teeth, and with eager greediness devoured them in
large mouthfuls until not a particle of the snake remained.
They then drew back with seeming reluctance, wiping
their bloody lips with their hands.
But the excitement seemed to have produced a sort of
fit in the man who had first seized the snake, from
which the Sheikh restored him by clasping his head with
both hands and pressing it violently, while he again
concentrated himself on incantations, the veins starting
out on his forehead with the intensity of his efforts. In
a few moments the dervish had become comparatively
calm, though for the rest of the time I observed that he
continued to twitch and jerk convulsively, while his
eyes rolled wildly.
Meantime the man and boy who had been pierced
watched the proceedings with the utmost unconcern.
As it was difficult to believe that to remain with one’s
cheeks skewered did not at all events produce a feeling
of discomfort, and as they must have been standing for
THE SPIRITUALIST.
32
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 18, 1879.
at least a quarter of an hour in the same attitude, I told
the Sheikh to pull out the skewers. This he did, in
each case preceding the sharp pull with which he
extracted them by an earnest invocation. When they
were drawn out the points were bloodless, while, excepting
that there was an apparent induration of the cheek at
the spots through which the skewers had passed, there
was no sign of what had happened.
A brazier full of live charcoal was now brought in and
fanned into flame. When it was glowing with a blue
and lurid light, the Sheikh, calling suddenly on Allah
several times, jumped literally on the blazing mass with
his bare feet, and stood there for nearly a minute.
Then getting down, the charcoal was again fanned into
flame, and the men who had eaten the scorpions and
serpents, and who had been skewered through the
cheeks, rushed forward, plunged their hands into the
burning mass, and tossed the glowing embers into their
mouths, crunching them up with the greatest unconcern.
Meantime, the smell of burned flesh became unmistak¬
able, which somewhat militates against the theory that
their flesh is impervious to fire, though I am bound to
say no one showed any signs of feeling pain.
A light-coloured man, stripped to the waist, now
came forward, armed with a curved, pointed knife about
eight inches long and an inch broad, with a short
wooden handle, and was about to plunge it into his
abdomen, when one of the gentlemen of our party
became so faint and one of the ladies so sick that they
begged the Sheikh to omit this part of the performance.
In vain he assured us that it would be unattended with
the slightest pain or danger; in vain the victim to be
operated upon manifested the utmost eagerness to be
allowed to stab himself: the civilised nerves of my
friends were unequal to the shock. He was by no means
a fanatical-looking man, this adept in the magic art, but
a calm, intelligent-looking person, whose white skin gave
bim quite an air of Western civilisation. He showed us
a whole row of scars extending completely round his
waist, each about an inch long, some twenty or thirty in
number, as evidence that he was accustomed to the
experiment, and that it was safe. In every case, while
bearing a very distinct indurated mark, the skin had
healed beautifully, and he assured us that the operation
was as bloodless as the one we had already witnessed.
At least he begged, if we would not allow him to plunge
a knife six inches long into his stomach for our gratifi¬
cation, to let him exhibit the minor spectacle of having
a skewer, to which a large iron ball was attached,
passed through his throat at his windpipe and come
out at the back of his neck. He showed us the hard
lumps at the lower part of the throat in front and at
each side of the spine in the nape of the neck, where
former skewers had penetrated.
The Sheikh was so disgusted with the weak nerves of
our party that he treated us with a shade of contempt
henceforth, and seemed very nearly determined to go on
with the ceremony whether we liked it or not.
I confess I regretted that it should have been brought
to a close at the moment when it was becoming really
interesting; but the testimony of an English medical
man of high reputation and experience, who has been
long resident in the East, and who has witnessed both
the piercing of the abdomen and the neck, will have
more weight than mine. This gentleman has informed
me that the operation in both cases is genuine. The
knife goes in about six inches. I myself saw that there
was no possibility of its being slipped back into the
handle. As it is drawn sharply out by the Sheikh, he
wets his forefinger with his tongue, and instantly places
it on the wound, which then closes, leaving only a scar,
but there is no sign of blood or inflammation. I was
unable on this occasion to remain behind and satisfy
myself on the subject, but the Sheikh and his disciples
evidently took umbrage at our refusal to see all they
were prepared to show, and attributed it probably to
scepticism, though, in fact, a too vivid belief in the
reality of the performance on the part of some of our
party was what so abruptly terminated our visit.
I asked the Sheikh, however, to come and see me on
the following day, which he did, and I had a long and
interesting conversation with him. He said that from
early youth he had been trained to intense concentration
and prayer, and repeated to me the forms of invocation
by which both Allah and the Sheikh Bedawi could be
approached. Partially closing his eyes and lowering
his voice to a whisper, he pronounced these formulas, the
breath becoming longer and lower until it was almost
imperceptible, and the whole frame being apparently at
an extreme tension. The sentences were constantly and
almost automatically repeated. Rousing himself, after
he had shown me the manner of invocation, he said that
had he gone on a little longer he would have fallen into
a trance; that trances thus induced were common to
him, and that while he was in them he could become
conscious of the presence of the Sheikh Bedawi and con¬
verse with him; that he repeatedly did so, but that it
was never permitted to him to divulge what had passed.
He said it was not absolutely necessary to be a Moham¬
medan in order to be a member of the order, but a pro¬
found and entire belief in the Sheikh Bedawi as the
source of their power was essential; and as Bedawi, while
on earth, had been a devout Moslem practically, none
but Moslems ever sought to belong to the order. At
the same time, he admitted that such practices were not
recognised by the Koran, and they are, indeed, opposed
to its spirit; but he claimed that Allah permitted them
for exceptional purposes, and that the object of the
order was to prove the truth of the miracles recorded
of great prophets, such as Abraham, Moses, and Christ,
all of whom could perform similar wonderful works; and
persons doubting the truth of this could be convinced
that they were possible in old times by seeing what was
possible now. If, however, they were attempted even
by members of the order from any other than a religious
motive, the protection of Bedawi would be withdrawn,
and they would certainly prove fatal. Nor could other
than holy and devout men, though members of the
order, exercise these gifts with safety. It was necessary
also to bind oneself by oath to the. seven nomothetical
precepts of Mohammedanism. When a man decided to
become a member of the order, and had taken the vows,
the powers of the Bedawi were imparted by the process
of writing on a piece of sugar a formula, which he wrote
for me thus :—
5
Then, dissolving the sugar in water, and drinking it,
henceforward the saliva had a special healing virtue, and
could stay the flow of blood. He was enabled to
exercise a great power in many ways over the human
organism, and spent his time curing people who came to
him.
At the same time he was fully alive to the value of
money, as I afterwards discovered, and both he and his
followers lived on what they could obtain by the exercise
July 18, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
33
of their art. He did not profess to have any power of flj
telling the future, but said that he could do far more j||
wonderful things than we had seen, or than he had j)|
intended to show us; that the special strength of the |<!
Bedawis lay in their power of dealing with serpents and i; j
with fire, and that he had a furnace which, when it was I) j
heated red hot, was entered by his disciples,, who m
suffered no more than Shadrach, Meschech, and Abed- |}|
nego did under similar circumstances thousands of years ft
ago- . /. ' . 3}
Altogether, the Sheikh was a calm and earnest man, |||
apparently believing profoundly in all he said, and with 111
none of the airs of an impostor. When it is remem- j||
bered that various orders claiming to exercise powers of j(j
this description have existed in the East from all time, i}|
that at the present day they number forty or fifty thou- j; j
sand in Islam alone, not counting innumerable dervishes Kl
with various pretensions, while as fakirs and devotees j/j
they swarm both in Hindoo and Buddhist countries; and l]j
when we find their gifts believed in and their powers j>{
accepted by the masses in all these countries, it is not to }/!
be wondered at if the leaders believe in themselves, or Kj
have some ground for so doing. j; j
The foundation of Christianity, as of every other j(j
religion, is the supernatural, and those who deny the j)j
possibility of powers existing in the present day |?|
identical with those which they point to in the past, as \(\
evidences of the truth of their own religion, place a >j
weapon in the hands of sceptics of which the latter will \\\
not be slow to avail themselves.
I
i / j
APPARITIONS AND THE POWER OF EVOCATION. j|
Thk Daily Chronicle of last Friday gave the public the |)|
following lengthy article about Apparitions:—• u
SPIEITS BEFOEE OUE EYES.* K|
Philosophical observers have declared that everybody in
more or less believes in ghosts. Books have not been j>|
wanting to foster this view, and the activity of modern nl
Spiritualists is well known. Mr. Harrison is, we believe, Kj
a distinguished member of this body, and he seeks to jn
make converts by gathering together a collection of won- |)j
derful stories such as the world calls supernatural. Many l)i
of them are old, culled from Mrs. Crowe’s Night Side of Kj
Nature, Mr. Dale Owen’s Footfalls on the Boundary of j)j
Another World, and other equally well-known sources; |\|
but a few possess comparative novelty for the general in
reader, who does not happen to have enjoyed what Mr. j)j
Varley calls the “ satisfaction ” of seeing an apparition, v
With a book of this kind quotation will be better than k!
comment, and we shall, therefore, select a few of the j/j
stories, the first being narrated by a clergyman nearly Ivj
two hundred years ago :— j<
Rev. Sir,—Being informed that you are writing about j)
spectres and apparitions, I take the freedom, though a j)j
stranger, to send you the following relation. j)
Mary, the wife of John Croffe, of Rochester, being 1(1
afflicted with a long illness, removed to her father’s' n
house at West Mulling, which is about nine miles distant
from her own; there she died, June 4th, 1691.
The day before her departure she grew impatiently nj
desirous to see her two children, whom she had left at jn
home to the care of a nurse. She prayed her husband hi
to hire a horse, for she must go home and die with her ivj
    Kj
* Spirits before Our Eyes. By William H, Harrison, 33, British K i
Museum-street, London. KI
children. When they persuaded her to the contrary,
telling her she was not fit to be taken out of the bed, nor
able to sit on horseback, she entreated them, however,
to try. “If I cannot sit,” said she, “I will lie all
along upon the horse, for I must go to see my poor
babies.”
A minister who lives in the town was with her at ten
o’clock that night, to whom she expressed good hopes in
the mercies of God, and a willingness to die.
“But,” said she, “ it is my misery that I cannot see my
children.”
Between one and two o’clock in the morning she fell
into a trance. One Widow Turner, who watched with
her that night, says that her eyes were open and fixeid,
and her jaw fallen; she put her hand upon her mouth
and nostrils, but could perceive no breath; she thought
her to be in a fit, and doubted whether she were alive or
dead. The next day this dying woman told her mother
that she had been at home with her children. “ That is
impossible,” said the mother, “for you have been here in
bed all the while.” “Yes,” replied the other, “but
I was with them last night when I was asleep.”
The nurse at Rochester, Widow Alexander by name,
affirms and says that she will take her oath of it before a
magistrate, and receive the sacrament upon it, that a little
before two o’clock that morning she saw the likeness of
the said Mary Goffe come out of the next chamber (where
the elder child lay in a bed by itself, the door being left
open), and stood by her bedside for about a quarter of an
hour ; the younger child was there lying by her; her eyes
moved, and her mouth went, but she said nothing. The
nurse, moreover, says she was perfectly awake; it was
then daylight, being one of the longest days in the year.
She sat up in her bed, and looked steadfastly upon the
apparition ; at that time she heard the bridge clock strike
two, and awhile after said, “ In the name of the Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost, what art thou ?” Thereupon the
appearance removed, and went away ; she slipped on her
clothes and followed, but what became of it she cannot
tell. Then, and not before, she began to be grievously
affrighted, and went out of doors, and walked upon the
wharf (the house is just by the river side) for some hours,
only going in now and then to look at the children. At
five o’clock she went to a neighbour’s house, and knocked
at the door, but they would not rise ; at six she went
again ; then they rose, and let her in. She related to them
all that had passed; they would persuade her she was
mistaken or dreamt; but she confidently affirmed, “ If
ever I saw her in all my life, I saw her this night.”
One of those to whom she made the relation (Mary, the
wife of J. Sweet) had a messenger, who came^from
Mulling that forenoon, to let her know her neighbour
Goffe was dying, and desired to speak with her; she
went over the same day, and found her just departing.
The mother, amongst other discourses, related to her
how much her daughter had longed to see her children,
and said she had seen them.
This brought to Mrs. Sweet’s mind what the nurse had
told her that morning; for, till then, she had not
thought fit to mention it, but disguised it rather as the
woman’s disturbed imagination.
The substance of this I had related to me by John
Carpenter, the father of the deceased, the next day after
the burial. July 2, I fully discussed the matter with
the nurse, and two neighbours, to whose house she went
that morning.
Two days after, I had it from the mother, the minister
that was with her in the evening, and the woman who
sat up with her last night. They all agree in the same
story, and every one helps to strengthen the others’
testimony.
34
THE STI
They all appear to be sober, intelligent persons, far
enough off from designing to impose a cheat upon the
world, or to manage a lie; and what temptation they
should lie under for so doing I cannot conceive.
Thomas Tilson,
Minister of Aylesioorth, near Maidstone, in Kent.
It is somewhat satisfactory to learn that in nearly all
the cases quoted the primary cause of the effect was
the love of the dying person for the observer who saw the
apparition. At a meeting of the Psychological Society,
on May 17, 1877, Mr. Gordon, who is put down as an
anti-Spiritualist, said :—
He wished to narrate an occurrence which had taken
place among persons known to him, and he had no doubt
as to the authenticity of the facts. Some years ago two
sisters living in Scotland were married, and lived within
a few miles of each other; one had been married to a
gentleman of considerable property who farmed his own
land, and the other to a minister of the Church of Scot¬
land. One morning, in harvest-time, Mrs. A  ap¬
peared at breakfast in a state of mental disturbance, and
told her husband that she wished he would lend her one
of his horses, as she desired to go to see her sister. This
being inconvenient in the middle of harvest-time, he
replied that he could not spare one, and asked why' she
wished to go. She then said that she had dreamt she
was in church listening to her brother-in-law preaching ;
she heard him divide his sermon into “ firstlyM and
“ secondly,” and at last he came to “thirdly;” at that
moment her father—who was dead—entered the church,
and beckoned to the preacher to follow him; he then
followed the figure out of the church. Upon this her
husband lent her a horse, and when she arrived at the
house of her sister she found the blinds all down, and the
servant said, “ How could you possibly have heard the
awful news so soon ?” “ What news ?” The servant
replied, “ Don’t you know that master is lying dead up¬
stairs ?” He had been found in his study stone dead ;
he had been writing his sermon, and after getting through
two-thirds of it he stopped when he reached “thirdly.”
These facts were well known to all the relatives of the
deceased clergyman.
The following is introduced as a most disagreeable
dream, which is accounted for by the inference that the
thoughts of the deceased were taking symbolical form,
and were not of an elevated character i—
A sailor in Her Majesty’s ship V   writes :—“ A
strange thing happened once in our ship that ,1 cannot
account for* W* S. was the cleanest man on board the
V i-. One night he woke* feeling uncomfortable ; he
turned out of his hammock, took off his flannel, and
found it full of vermin. He rolled it up, laid it aside,
put on a clean one, and turned in again. Soon after,
feeling again uncomfortable, he got up, took off his
flannel, and found that one in the same state as the
other. I was sleeping in the next hammock to him ; we
were fast friends, so he roused me, and showed me the
flannel full of live vermin. I started back; I would
never have believed it if I had not seen it, knowing how
clean the fellow was. After that he put on a cotton
shirt, and turned into his hammock again ; he would not
try another flannel one. Next morning, at mess, he was
telling his mates what had happened. All laughed at
him. ‘ Well,’ he said, ‘ if you won’t believe me I’ll
prove it to you,’ and went to fetch the flannels, rolled
together and put by themselves. He opened them in the
presence of all, and, to his great astonishment, found
them perfectly clean; upon which all his mates laughed
RITUALIST.
July 18, 1879.
more than ever at him. He said nothing more, but just
made a note of the date. Two months after letters
came to the ship. I and W , being stokers, were in
the boiler together. A mate came and sang out, ‘A
letter for you, K ,’ ‘All right,’ said I, and took it.
‘ And one for me ?’ said W . ‘ Yes, edged with
black.’ ‘My father is dead,’ he said ; and opening the
letter, found it contained the news that his father had
died suddenly on the very night he had noted down two
months before.”
The next is the case of the spirit of a man still in the
body, seen by two witnesses at once, which is somewhat
rare.
Mr. JohnBonnell was a commoner of Queen’s College,
Oxford; he was remarkable in his person and gait, and
had a particular manner of holding up his gown behind,
so that to any one who had but once seen him, he might
be known by his back as easily as by his face.
On Sunday, November 18, 1750, at noon, Mr. Ballard,
who was then of Magdalene College, and myself were
talking together at Parker’s door. I was then waiting
for the sound of the trumpet for dinner, and suddenly
Mr. Ballard cried out, “ Dear me, oh! who is that
coming out of your college ?” I looked, and saw, as I
supposed, Mr. Bonnell, and replied, “ He is a gentleman
of our house, and his name is Bonnell; he comes from
Stanton Harcourt.” “ Why, bless me !” said Mr. Ballard,
“ I never saw such a face in all my life !” I answered
slightly, “ His face is much the same as it always is; I
think it is a little more inflamed and swelled than it is
sometimes ; perhaps he has buckled his band too tight;
but I should not have observed it if you had not spoken.”
“ Well,” said Mr. Ballard again, “ I never shall forget
him as long as I live and seemed to be much discon¬
certed and frightened.
This figure I saw without any emotion or suspicion;
it came down the quadrangle, came out at the gate, and
walked up the High-street; we followed it with our eyes
till we came to Catherine-street, where it was lost.
The trumpet then sounded, and Mr. Ballard and I
parted, and I went into the hall, and thought no more of
Mr. Bonnell.
In the evening the prayers of the chapel were desired
for one who was in a very sick and dangerous condition.
When I came out of the chapel I inquired of one of the
scholars, James Harrison, in the hearing of several
others who were standing before the kitchen fire, who it
was that was prayed for, and was answered, “ Mr.
Bonnell, senior.” “ Bonnell, senior! ” said I, with
astonishment; “what is the matter with him? he was
very well to-day, for I saw him go out to dinner.”
“ You are very much mistaken,” answered the scholar,
“ for he has not been out of his bed for some days.” I
then asserted more positively that I had seen him, and
that a gentleman was with me who saw him too.
This came presently to the ears of Dr. Fotbergill, who
had been my tutor. After supper he took me aside, and
questioned me about it, and said he was very sorry I had
mentioned the matter so publicly, for Mr. Bonnell was
dangerously ill. I replied I was very sorry too, but I
had done it innocently; and the next day Mr. Bonnell
died.
Inquiry was made of Mr. Ballard afterwards, who
related the part I was witness too, in the same manner
as I have now related it; adding that I told him the
gentleman was one Mr. Bonnell, and that he came from
Stanton Harcourt.
From this century-old story we come to one told four
years ago by the late Prince Emile de SaymWittgenstein,
July 18, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
35
who was in attendance upon the Emperor of Russia
during the Russo-Turkish war of 1878. 'He said:—
I had, about a year and a half ago, tried in vain to
convert a young lady to the belief that, under special
conditions, her spirit might quit her body and act inde¬
pendently of it. After repeated requests she at last
consented to give me a glove she had worn, and by which
I hoped to establish between us the mesmeric rapport
necessary for the experiment.
We parted that same day, and as soon as circumstances
allowed it, I set to work, late in the evening, at an hour
when I supposed her to be asleep: taking the glove in
my left hand and a pencil in my right hancljH evoked
her, concentrating all my will upon her. Presently I felt
myself controlled, and began to write different answers
to the questions I was mentally uttering. We were at
that time separated from each other by about half a day’s
travel.
I continued the same practice for several weeks,
during which the glove gradually lost its power, and
the manifestations grew weaker and weaker, and finally
they ceased altogether.
I afterwards ascertained that she had often dreamt of
me very clearly, and that she even remembered having
once seen me writing at my table. Her description of
my dress and of the room I occupied, answered exactly
to the reality. She also confirmed several facts and
episodes of her private life, the particulars of which I
had obtained in the way described.
Every time her spirit answered my call I felt a pleasant
sort of shiver running down my back, while a sort of dim
circular light, about as big as a plate, and of a pale
yellowish hue, appeared moving to and fro near the
ceiling. This light came with the first stroke of my
pencil, and disappeared as soon as the writing stopped.
Sometimes the pencil gave a violent jerk, and the writing
ceased abruptly, placidly to be resumed some moments
later, as if nothing had occurred. This was explained to
me as the result of outward disturbances having
momentarily interrupted the sleep.
But the strangest of all these facts is the following. I
am unable to explain it, and would be thankful to any
person who might undertake to do so.
I was tracing, under the usual control, an account of a
ball, where she pretended to have been the evening
before ; she describing, in her merry girlish way, her
pretty dress, the persons who had talked to her, making
malicious remarks about them, and finally accusing herself
of having been out of temper, and of having sat in a
corner, giving saucy answers, and refusing to dance.
Several months afterwards I met her sister, who informed
me that on that very evening my spiritual correspondent
had been absent on a week’s excursion, but that she, the
sister, had actually been at the ball, her dress, her
behaviour, in one word every particular of her narrative
answering exactly the details I had received under
control.
After describing an interview with “ The Prophet
Elijah,” now roaming through Kent in an artistic white
dress of sheepskins, Mr. Harrison says “he is one of
those psychic sensitives who are misunderstood by the
doctors, the police, the world, and themselves, and who
are born to suffer. I heard that originally he was an
artist, and that his native place was Hastings.”
In connection with a visitation by the spirit of a
drowned man, some strange remarks are made on the
subject of the clothing of ghosts.
Spiritualists who have seen much of materialisation
II stances know that spirits have a remarkable power of
| duplicating, not only the forms of their mediums, but
their clothes; and the Count de Bullet, of the Hotel de
I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris, has had special experience
i of this phenomenon. Still, there is no creation of new
matter. The law of the conservation of energy is not
m broken. Recent experiments, initiated by Mr. Charles
j) Blackburn, of Didsbury, and carried out by the
Kj Research Committee of the National Association of
[|| Spiritualists, have shown by means of self-recording
|(| weighing apparatus that, while the duplicate form of
h| the medium and his clothes is being materialised in
i)j one place, the weight of his normal body and clothes
!<{ is diminishing in another, and vice versd. There is a
j)j play of forces between the two, underlying the vul-
|(| garly-known phenomena of molecular physics. The
| (j apparatus used consisted of a suspended cabinet, in
| ji which the medium was placed, and any alterations in
| (| his weight, while the manifestations occurred near to or
I; | some yards from the cabinet, were recorded by means
jh of the rise and fall of a pencil, which drew a line upon
j) | a vertical rotating drum driven by clockwork. Thus the
|)| weight of the medium at any given time was auto-
| \ i matically recorded, and the variations in his weight were
i) j considerable.
i (! My opinion is, that at the time Captain Ridd saw the
j)j spirit and clothes of his brother, a diminution took place
j(| in the weight of the normal clothes and the body of the
Kj recently-drowned man at the bottom of the sea near the
j)j East Indies. I also think it probable that when the
j\j apparition disappeared, the distant clothes and body
Kj resumed their normal weight, as in the crucial experi-
jd ments connected with materialisation just described. But
jsj spirits have one or two other methods of making them-
| selves and their dresses visible, and I think that the
j (j various methods can be identified and classified.
But there are further wonders in store, for Mr.
m
j( Harrison contends that the evidence he possesses shows
j jj that—
I ( I
)| It is by no means necessary that a man should lie upon
i(j his dying bed, or should pass through the gates of death
m into the eternal world, before his spirit can travel hither
m and thither at will. When his body is in a state of sleep
j (j or trance his spirit can sometimes travel without his being
Kj any the worse for the achievement, but he does not
I ( usually remember in his normal condition what he has
j seen with spiritual eyes, nor are such spiritual powers
j)} under experimental control when thus exercised spon-
|u taneously. Nevertheless, under control they can be
j / j brought. Mesmerism furnishes the means.
The present volume, of which our readers will be able
Kj to judge by the foregoing extracts, is only the opening
U of the subject; and Mr. Harrison promises a second in
j < j the autumn, showing that the phenomena of apparitions
jjj continue in all their distinctive lines months and years
Kj after the death and burial of the earthly coverings.
MURDER OF MRS. HULL.
Mrs. Hull, the wife of a physician in New York, and
)j a well-known Spiritualist, has been foully murdered,
(j Some years ago she lived in England, and was presented
jj to the Queen by the American Minister.
At half-past nine on Monday evening, June 23rd,
(j Police-officers Mitchell and Files, of Station Five, and
( j Officer Wood, of Station Three, Boston,-arrested Castine
|| Cox, a mulatto, thirty-two years of age, at the Ebenezer
Ki Methodist Church, No. 85, West Concord-street, on the
36
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 18, 1879.
charge of the murder of Mrs. Jane DeForest Hull, fifty-
eight years of age, at her home, Ho. 140, West Forty-
second-street, Hew York, on the night of June 10th.
Early on Monday evening Lieut. Johnson, of Station
Five, received a despatch from Superintendent Adams,
stating that the murderer of Mrs. Hull would be at the
church above mentioned some time during the evening.
A good description of the man was also given, which
description had been furnished by the pawnbroker who
had lent money on some of the stolen goods a few days
previously. Officers Mitchell and Files were sent into
the church in plain clothes, while Officers Driscoll,
Misner, and Hunt, of the same station, surrounded the
building on the outside. The man they wanted was
easily discovered, sitting near the hack of the church,
and just before the close of the meeting the officers
entered the church and arrested Cox in his seat. The
prisoner made no resistance, hut at once followed the
officers out. He was taken to Station Five, where he
was searched. A gold watch, with hunting cases and
with the letters J. DeF. H. written on the inside of the
hack case, and a valuable ring, both of which were
recognised as the ones stolen from Mrs. Hull, were found
on his person.
Upon being shown these damaging proofs of his guilt,
Cox broke down, and owned the whole transaction. He
says that on the evening of June 10th he came home at
about six o’clock, and at once retired to his room, where
he lay down until about ten o’clock, when he crept out
of the house without disturbing any one. He had a key
which he thought would open the front door of Dr.
Hull’s house, but was unable to make it work. He then
tried the windows, and succeeded in raising one, through
which he entered. A light was procured, with which
he crept softly along to Mrs. Hull’s room, but as he
went to open the door he thought he heard a man snore,
which caused him to quickly blow out his light. He
then entered the room in the darkness, but as he neared
the bed Mrs. Hull awoke, and asked, “ Who is there 1 ”
to which he answered, “ The Doctor,” meaning her
husband ; she evidently hardly recognised the voice, and
put out her hands to feel his face, which he avoided by
leaning backwards.
A bottle of eau cle cologne was lying on a stand near
the bed, which he seized and dashed into her face, at
the same time bringing one hand down over her mouth
to keep her from crying out. He then, while he was
holding her in that position, struck a light, but the
alcohol on her face ignited, burning her severely. He
smothered the flames, and kept her from screaming by
the aid of a heavy shawl which was lying near at hand,
which he held down over her face. She soon became
more quiet, upon which he bound and gagged her, and
then took all the valuables he could find and ran out by
the way of the front door. He says he did not intend
to kill her, only to quiet her, and steal what he could.
Upon leaving the house he went to Boston, where he
stopped at the house of Mrs. Diggs, Ho. 12, Grove-street.
Had he not been arrested, his intention was to have
gone to Providence, and have sought for a position as
cook on some foreign-bound vessel. He was born in
Powhattan County, Ky., and claims to have served three
years in the Union army during the late war. He does
not look like a very desperate character.
In consequence of the increasing circulation of The Spiritualist
tlie last two numbers were sold out within three days after pub¬
lication, but a few S returnshave since come back from the
trade. Readers who wish for complete volumes should be
careful not to part with their copies. Henceforth, back numbers
may not be so readily obtainable as in the past.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
I \ I In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
I) | civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou-
1 >] sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out-
|) j lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
I) I ways, gas, and G-alileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
]{| The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Kj Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
!(| investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
; \ i professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
! | true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
!/! were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
! (j presence of mediums without being touched.
ji| Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
j (j Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
I \ j thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
|) \ house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
|} j Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
I) I professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
| < I Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
Ki forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
| \ j stranger to the family present.
nj The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
I > i science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
I (j untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
I (I private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
I u by any member of the family. At the present time there are
(i only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe-
j)i nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
I) i tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
\)\ be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
|) i great movement of modem Spiritualism. Readers should pro-
] /1 tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
I (I the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
|(j which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
| (| duped who trust in worthless authorities.
[) i One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
;) i ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
i / j new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc*
IN tions, obtains the phenomena:—
III; 1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup-
I {i tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
K j 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
j |! the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
n! to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
i|i; wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
!) j top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
I (I little importance. Any table will do.
j (| 3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
I (j but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
Hi 4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
| \ j general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
!) [ should be of a frivolous nature.
j) | 5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
j)j feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
| /1 indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
| {| 6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
K; to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
|'! the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
|; | three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
}|j “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood,
j); If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I speak the
| (! letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
jit to the letter you want, and spell us out a message?” Should
i (i three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
(j from this time an intelligent system of communication is
I) j established.
i) | 7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
!) j trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
!) | messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
i/j usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
||j objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
! (j the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
H) to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
nj or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
j) i undeniable proof.
j)i 8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
I (j because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
i l j sitters. A medium is. usually an impulsive individual, very sensi-
j \ j tive to mesmeric influences.
K i Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
i>j not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
n j week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
i? i stimulus of mediumship altogether.
July 18, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
in
MRS. WELDON (Miss Treherne) will
read a short ADDRESS, “ How I Escaped the
Mad Doctors,’’ and make a few remarks on the trial of
Queen v. Mortimer, Weldon v. London Figaro. Will
sing Mrs. Edward Fitz-Gerald’s celebrated ballad,
“ I Remember how my Childhood fleeted by,” Gounod’s
“O Happy Home and Better Land,” Urich's '•* Pity the
Wives and Babes at Home,” and “ Night Thoughts,”
by Mrs. Weldon. On Monday evening, July 28, at
8 p.m., at Quebec Hall, 25, Great Quebec-street, Mary-
lebone-road, close to Baker-street Station. Admission
free. Collection at close. 
British national associa-
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 88, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. • This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman Road, Brixton.
The object of the Society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well-known mediums, and are entitled to the use of
books on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, <fco., <fec.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. SeO.
Mrs. WELDON’S WEDNESDAY
RECITALS. Mrs. Weldon gives an Evening’s
entertainment weekly, at Tavistock House, her re¬
sidence (formerly Charles Dickens’). The programme
is varied by a short Lecture, sacred and romantic;
serious and nursery songs by Gounod, Urich, and Mrs.
Weldon. Tickets to be had on application free. A
collection is made for Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage,
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London. 
Cloth, small Svo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E, W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O. 
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
PART I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “ Birdie's Spirit Song ”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live"—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII. Words o’
Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same authoress, a companion volume,
price 5s. 6d.,
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Offlce, 33, British
 Museum-street, London, W.C.
RETUE SPIRITE, Journal d5 etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris, Post-Office orders payable to
M. Leymarie.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial Svo. Cloth, red edges. Post
free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of *• M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“0! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond..
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind. Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. ——.
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVUI.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C.
Stone.
. XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis, By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVIf.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.’’
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C, Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wotheriogton
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Beme; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Colder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLlV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russell Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Offlce, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. Or. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT.
COHTENTS.
Chapter I.-—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N. Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr.
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? — Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S.
O. Hall-W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
-Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—.The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss —Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition, enlarged.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE
COMPARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from
Spiritualism with the idea that it is unchristian and
uuscriptural. It shows (we think successfully) that
every form of mediumship, now so familiar to Spirit¬
ualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of identical
experiences. Also
HEAVEN OPENED.
Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The two bound in one, Is.
These books, consisting of messages given by
writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth,
and their group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and
sorrowing parents.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Offlce, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or whoare about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for Ijd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 18, 187&
THE ALPHA; or, the First Principle
bf the Human Mind; a Eevelation, but no
Mystery. With Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait
of the Author, E. N. Dennys. 870 pages, price 3s. 6d.
“We can cail to mind few books fit to be its fellows.”
■—Athmieum.
“It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and
logic than any work we have ever read; it Is a new
revelation, and one of the most remarkable productions
ever given to the world."—Cosmopolitan,
Also, just published, with • engraving of the Author,
470 pages, price 3s. 6d.
rpHE RELIGION OE LIFE, as exemp-
JL lifled by Jesus Christ, A series of Lectures by
the Author of “Alpha.”
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-Iane, London, E,0
Now ready, 48 pp. Price Sixpence. .
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS FOE JULY, 1879.
The Spiritual Pilgrim ; by “ M. A.” (Oxon)—Voices
from the Ages, The Pimander; by P. Davidson—The
Story of Him who wore the Wreath; by A. M. Howitt
Watts—The Attitude of the Eeligious World towards
Modern Spiritualism ; by John S. Parmer—The Phila¬
delphian Society; by J. W. F.—The Eev. J. Baldwin
Brown on the Resurrection ; by J. S. F.—“ Spiritual¬
istic Sanity.”—The Music of the Spheres an inspiration;
by M. C. T. Q-.—Notes and Gleanings: Cardinal New¬
man and the Spiritual Body; Why do Mediums use
Great Names? The Spiritual in Animals ; The Rise
and Growth of the Brahmo-Somaj; Leibnitz on
Psychomety; What is the Use of Spiritualism ?—
Spiritual Lyrics, the Cure of Care; by T. S.
London: E. W. ALLEN, Ave Maria Lane.
GLAsaow: H. NISBET & Co., Ropework Lane.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8 vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
IBy Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics," awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. ,  
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented,
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, L°ndon, W.C.
FRESHLY-CUT FLOWERS arranged in
Baskets, with Glass and White Earthenware
Linings; also in Dishes, various shapes, and in Vases.
Choice Flowers, very cheap, and prettily displayed,
from Ninepence. Also a number of Evergreens in
Pots, very fine, from Is. 4d., at J. M. Dales’, 50, Craw-
ford-street, Bryanston-square, W. J. M. D. solicits a
visit of inspection (which will be much esteemed) on
and after Saturday, July 19.
A LADY SPIRITUALIST AND
MEDIUM is forming a circle for inquirers,
every Monday and Thursday evening, at eight o’clock.
She wishes to engage a genuine materialisation
medium for once a week.—Kindly communicate to
A., 2, Scarsdale-villas, Kensington.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLlAlt H. HARBISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1 .—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji L. Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
With a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbelrbewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!"—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
—24. The Angel of Silence.
PART 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony's
Lament. —29. The July Bug.— 30. The Converted
Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; consequently
any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a genuine
vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who are not too
stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on
the contrary, some of his poems touch on the deepest
and most sacred feelings of our common humanity.
. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his ad¬
ventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is
quite one of the funniest things that has been pub¬
lished for years. . . . The book contains quite
enough to ensure it a welcome from which its tasteful
appearance will not detract.” The Morning Post says
of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in
“ something like the same key as The Bon Gaultier
Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably suc¬
cessful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift."
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published, and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street). Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk's account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of (Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
Qeorge’s-road.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The probable effects of
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
. These Essays won the Fibst and Second
Gold Medals oe the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau; 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France,
Price Five Shillings. Post Free, Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
■\rOTICE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
JJN NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER has arranged for seances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o’clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de¬
velopment for clairvoyance and other forms of
mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The u Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . ,76
The Teacher. ,, II. „ ..76
The Seer. „ III. „ . .76
The Reformer. a IV. „ .-.76
The Thinker. „ V. „ , . 7 G
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . i .76
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . S 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People . . . . . . . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life 3 6
History and Philosophy of Evil , . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . ,76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .30
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6-
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves , 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .30
Morning Lectures   7 6
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane,
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand,
f The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFI, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
MIND AND MATTER.-^A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annnal subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order,)
Sample copies free,
CONTENTS.
The Religion of Spiritualism. No. II. By Isabel
de Steiger       25
British Museum Lectures   28
CorrespondenceThe Religion of Spiritualists;
The Higher Uses of Mesmerism; Visitors to
38, Great Russell-street    28
The Prince Imperial’s Prayer   r  29
The Daily Chronicle on Spiritualism  SO
Arrival of a New American Medium   30
Extraordinary Psychological Phenomena in Da¬
mascus      31
Apparitions and the Power of Evocation   33
Murder of Mrs. Hull     35
Paragraph:—Departure of Mr. and Mrs. Tebb for
America, 30; A Jewish Sabbath    30
Printed for the Proprietor by Bbvbeidob and Co.
at the Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by W. H. Habsison, 33, British Museum-
street, London, W.C.
