Registered as a Newspaper,
SK© f’^YdSo^o^idSii
#lb^sf H-cfospapr toit^r Spninaltsm in feat §niam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosquc 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : .2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Floriroon*. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS. U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street, PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON :
No. xoio, Seventh-street.
No. 292.—(VOL. XIL—No. 13.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
©ontenta.
The Guidance of Initial Spiritual Manifestations 145
Psychological Phenomena in Australia and Elsewhere.
By Frederick Sinclair:—A Life Saved by a Mental
Impression—A Warning of Death Given in a Dream—
A Life Saved by a Dream—Synchronous Psychological
Experiences—Prevision of a Murder—Spirits Near
the Beds of the Dying—An Apparition at the Time of
Death—Sixteen Lives Saved by a Mental Impression
•—A Dead Body Found in consequence of a Dream-
General Oonclusions ... ...    ... 145
The Dalston”Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism :—
Objections to Certain Teachings in connection with
Spiritualism—^Miscellaneous Meetings 149
Is Man’s Immortality Conditional ? 149
Dr. Slade in Russia 150
Psycography .v      150
Private Seances ...        150
The Manifestation in Naples of the Alleged Spirit of Nana
Sahib. By G. Damiani...       ... 150
Visions in Mirrors and Crystals. By Dr. Kenneth R. H.
Mackenzie, F.S.A.:—Some of the Difficulties of Spirit¬
ualism—Crystallomancy, and its Antiquity—Home
Experiments in Crystallomancy—Captain R. F. Bur¬
tons Distant Adventures Seen in a Crystal—The
Constitution of the Spirit-World as Seen in Crystals—
A Record of a Vision in a Mirror—Rules of Spirit
Intercourse—Telegraphy by Visions in Crystals 151
Poetry:—De 'Sperience ob de Reb’rend Quako Strong ... 154
Correspondence:—Remarkable Psychological Phenomena
in France—Spirit Force and Spirit Manufactures—
Spiritualism in Hull—Mesmerism—Literary Dog¬
matism ...- ... - , ....155
Misrepresentations of Spiritualists      ... 156
Answers to Correspondents 166
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in Hull, 151; Are Animals
Immortal?...      it ... ...156
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
KSTABLISHED IK 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
tTnited Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual-
1 sts in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S.. Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness:-His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. O. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. TI.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author o!
the - Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. O.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. O.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling.
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson. M.D. (Australia): and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, ISs., post free.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER’S PAM¬
PHLET on Clairvoyance, price 4d. Also on Curative
Mesmerism, price 6d. To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-
gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
EDUCATION.—A Graduate of Cambridge,
who is an experienced Tutor, desires a few Boarders to
whom he may impart a superior education. Healthy locality,
comfortable home, <fcc. Address, W. Stoddart, B.A., Gwydyr
House, Cambridge.
ESSONS in French and Spanish, or English,
to Foreigners. Translations from the above Languages
also undertaken. Address by letter, Vioi.a, care of Misa
Burke, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for April, 1878.
EASTER CLOSING.
The Offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be closed for the
Easter Holidays on Thursday, 18th inst., and re-opened on
Monday, 29th inst.
Tuesday, 2nd.—General Purposes Committee, at 5 p.m.
Wednesday, Srcf. —Soiree at 88, Great Russell-street. Address
by Rev. Thos. Colley, on “ Spiritual
Phenomena and the Doctrine of Corre¬
spondences." Music, Conversation, and
Refreshments. Commence at 7 p.m.
Admission to Members and Friends, Is.
Friday, 5th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30p.m.
Monday, 9th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m. Paper by Mr. W. Newton on
“Faith versus Knowledge.”
Tuesday, 9th.—Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m. Special
Council Meeting to follow. Motion b
Mrs. Lowe.
Wednesday, lOfft.—Inquirers’ Seance at 8 p.m., Mr. W.
Eglinton, medium.
Friday, Vtth.—Library Committee, at 5.80 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Stance, at 7.30 p.m.
Monday, Xlth.—Soiree Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ ., House and Offices Committee at 5.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 17th.—Inquirers’ Stance at 8 p.m., Mr. Eglinton,
medium.
Tuesday, Z9th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5 p.m.
SEANCES FOR INQUIRERS.
These Seances are now resumed, and will be held during
the present month on Wednesday evenings, except Wednesday,
3rd inst. Tickets can be purchased through Members of the
Association, who can purchase them at the price of 2s. 6d. for
Inquirers, Is. for Members.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. SbO.
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
RECITATIONS
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
Every Thursday in February and March, at 8.15 p.m.
Changes will be made in each Programme.
Tickets may be had at Mitchell’s library, 33, Old Bond- street;
Hayes’s box office, 199, Regent-street; at the Hall: or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of eight recitations, one guinea each. Single tickets—Stalls,
3s.; chairs, 2s. ; balcony. Is.
FOE THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms :—18o, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c.> &c.;
post free, seven stamps.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February. 1875, for the pro-"
motion of psychological science in all its brane.hes. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intellieent., that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are mvited by tbe Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may he obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
Now Ready, Pries 2s. 6d.,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW
The Spiritualists’ Quarterly, fob April.
CONTENTS:—
Editor’s Address.
I. —Ethics of the New Age.
II. —^Experiences of Astrology in India,
III. —Mystical Poetry.
IV. —Modern Materialism.
V.—Dante and Beatrice.
VI.—The Sentiment of Immortality.
VII.—A Seance with Mrs. Marshall.
VIII.—Pilgrimages in France. No. 1.—To Paray-le-Monial.
IX.—Psycography.
X.—Buddhism and Christianity.
XI.—The Miracle Land.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love mav be found,
And how, when found, of all thinvs good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. W. H. Habrison,' 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O.
Price five shillings. Cloth, red edges,
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y>
Illustrated with Diagrams,
Was published last Tuesday afternoon. Subscribers supplied
post free, in the rotation in which their orders and remittances
are received.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street.
STROLOGY. “ Worth its weight in gold.”
Every adult person living should purchase at once
“YOUR FUTURE FORETOLD,” a book of 144 pp., cloth, only
2s. 6d. London: Berger, Newcastle-street, and J. Burns; or
post-free of E. Casael, High-street, Watford, Herts. Instruc¬
tions to purchasers gratis.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom. £110s.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C!
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts. Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Honrs from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniig,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March: 29, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South. Kensington, S.'W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfteld, Didsbury, Manchester,
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Eitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North. Brixton, S.'W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.O.
Massey, O. C„ Barrlster-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 21, St. Anh’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool. r
Coffin, W. H., 94, Covnwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., lateofH.M.S. “Malapar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 84. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill. Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Tjeeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. w. Stainton, M.A., University College, N W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newhould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W, 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Str'awhvidge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Oavendish-square, W.
TV hite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J, H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.'W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan deRassim Pacha aBahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guld.enstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S. A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimiile, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
- Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street,Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. 11. GledstaneS; Esq., 33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq -, 2. Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lleut.-Col. P. Jacoby, II, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
7.. Tost, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A,
J^e Comte de BiUlet, Hotel de 1’Atlienee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Haliock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
MiSs Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Splriter-Forseher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasso, 28,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-Iane,
A Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.-, Mr. A. J;. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad.'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
A ST RO LOGY, a Popular Sketch of
-LtL. Celestial Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J.
Pearce, author of the Weather Guide Boole, &c. Price
Is. 6d. Sent post free by the author on receipt of stamps ;
address, 3, Cedars-terrace, Queen’s-road, South Lambeth, S.W.
The TEXT BOOK OP ASTROLOGY, by the same author,
is now preparing for publication. Vol. I. will contain the
complete rules, and all tables necessary for calculating Na¬
tivities on the Placidian method improved by Zadkiel, by
spherical trigonometry (the only reliable and truly scientific
method). To subscribers the price will be 7s. the first volume.
Intending subscribers will please send their orders to the
author.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
tfe., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, P.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OP SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. P. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner IAfe; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London : Spirit¬
ualist Office.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Eredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 'ISs. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C,
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12. till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above.  . 
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Eive.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, POPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
  S.W.   ,
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.G
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms ; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes. 
MRS. C. E. BASSETT,
9, CHOBHAM TERRACE, CHOBHAM ROAD, STRATFORD,
 LONDON, E.  
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
. Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefield-road, Kings-
land, N.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer-,
• is open to. Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
1VTISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
.LvJL and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Boreugh. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from Ip.m,
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 40, St. Mary’s-terrace, Maida-hill West, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
BY EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes SARGENT.-This book, by an author
of considerable ability,gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomena], Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 6s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Mediumship \ its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
]L tl ||| tl i|| nub. Ji|^$ xtf
Volume Twelve. Kumber Thirteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 29th, 1878.
THE GUIDANCE OF INITIAL SPIRITUAL
MANIFESTATIONS.
In the early days of the Spiritual movement, it was
not known that either the sitters or the mediums had any
control over the manifestations, but a long course of ob¬
servation has revealed that any phenomenon which presents
itself in its initial stages, may be developed when the desire
is expressed that it shall be perfected in preference to the
others. Later, on, when the medium is fully developed, the
type of the manifestations becomes to a large extent fixed ;
the phenomena slowly become more powerful and precise,
but present no great variety. Although, for instance, the
power of Mr. Williams is great in darkness, the manifesta¬
tions given in the light in his presence never approximate in
strength to those once obtained through the mediumship of
Mrs. Mary Marshall, who for convincing disbelievers had
few if any equals among mediums in this country. In her
presence, untouched furniture would commonly walk about
the room in daylight, as if it were alive.
As seances in the light are now so much wanted, Spirit¬
ualists must look to new mediums to supply the demand,
and these make a mistake when by force of imitation they
sit for manifestations under the conditions at present
common. Instead of sitting under the same conditions as
their more powerful predecessors, they should refuse to
sit in the dark or in cabinets, and should refuse to en¬
courage the same class of manifestations. Raps and the
movement of solid objects in daylight might thus be de¬
veloped in the presence of new mediums, at the cost of
discouraging dark seances, not that the latter have not their
value, but that they have been abnormally developed, at the
cost of the losing of valuable phenomena obtainable under
other conditions. Consequently when raps and other mani¬
festations come in the presence of a new medium in the
light, he should not strengthen them and try to get in adi
dition spirit voices—which he can do—in the dark, but
should sit only in the light for phenomena which are
wanted. This would be better than encouraging a class of
manifestations already highly developed in other mediums.
Strong physical manifestations in daylight would now be
greatly valued in England for proselytising purposes.
PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA IN AUSTRALIA AND
ELSEWHERE.
BT FREDERICK SINCLAIR.
During the last few years my brethren of the quill have
been producing sensation ghost stories on an extensive scale.
The Franco-Prussian war being over, the Communists of
Paris ruthlessly slain, the butchery of Turks and Russians
having become too familiar to be interesting, and accounts
of Lilliputian men, babies with two heads, enormous cab¬
bages, and even horrible murders having ceased to interest
intelligent readers, the gentlemen of the fourth estate have
lately taken quite in a friendly way to spirits. The result is
that we can scarcely open what is called now-a-days a well-
conducted journal without finding in it some curious ghost
story, or singular prevision, or fulfilled dream, or other
narrative bordering on the supernatural. I believe that a
large and interesting volume might be made out of the
strange and seemingly supernatural events which have been
recorded by the Australian press during the last five years.
As a matter of course, our journalists save their credit with
society by tacking either to the beginning or end of whatever
spiritual story they relate, some expression of their scepticism
respecting the supposed supernatural character of the tale,
or some manifestation of pity for the deluded creatures who
believe it. Thus, by juggling adroitly with words, the editor
or paragraphist gives his readers an interesting narrative,
and at the same time escapes the odium which the world
attaches to all who believe such narratives to be true.
In the present paper, I shall endeavour to string upon a
single thread of reasoning a few out of many accounts of
“footfalls on the boundaries of another world” reported
some few years ago in the Australian newspapers, and will
show how easy it is to account for such facts on the hypo¬
thesis of Spiritualism, but how difficult to do so on any
other. I shall present them here as they happen to occur to
my recollection, and not in chronological order.
A LIFE SAVED BT A MENTAL IMPRESSION.
The first of these visitations of the unseen which I find
in my memoranda is quoted by the Leader of August 12th,
1871, from the Pleasant Creek News, both of which papers
are published in Victoria. The Leader is one of the largest
and best-conducted journals in Australia. The story which
is related as a remarkable intervention of providence is thus
stated by the Leader:—
“ On Tuesday last Mr. Thomson, while at his tent door,
Moyston, observed a boy about seven years old passing
towards the common school, and in a few minutes after this
an irresistible conviction seized him that the boy he had
lately seen was drowning in an adjacent creek. So unable
was he to resist this impression that he ran with all speed
to the spot presented to his mind, when, sure enough, he
beheld the disappearing body just below the surface of the
water. In an instant he plunged forward and grasped the
nearly lifeless body of the child, who had evidently been
struggling for some time, and in a few seconds more would
have passed into the spirit world. The child is a son of Mr.
Thomas Parker, and under the attention and restoratives
applied was soon restored to his grateful parents. Thomson
feels proud that he was used by the hands of providence in
thus preserving a life. He says his mind was engaged with
other matters when the scene portrayed presented itself,
which when concluded seemed to him like a dream.”
On the spiritual hypothesis this strange fact can be easily
explained. The spirit of a relative perhaps, or some spirit
interested in the fate of the boy perceived him either drown¬
ing in the creek, or about to fall into it, and, finding that
the man Thomson was an impressional medium, so wrought
on his mind as to irresistibly impel him towards the creek.
This may have been done by the spirit spontaneously, that
is, from its own desire to save the drowning lad’s life, or in
obedience to some higher spiritual authority. To refer
Thomson’s impression to the direct action of an Almighty
is merely transferring the explanation of it from one of the
lower departments of Spiritualism to the highest. Take
1 away, however, all idea of invisible spiritual existences and
{ agency, and the phenomena recorded in this case become
| involved in inexplicable mystery.
A WARNING O# DEATH GIVEN IN A DREAM.
It is strange to find a prevision of an approaching event
in connection with the pursuits of the turf, and yet such an
event has occurred at the Victorian Racing Club’s Spring
Meeting, held on the Melbourne course in November, 1871.
The prize called the Melbourne Cup was won by the horse
Nimblefoot, formerly the property of Mr. Craig, of racing
celebrity, but who was dead before his horse won the cup.
Commercial newspapers, as might be expected, gave the
most minute details respecting the galloping of the horses,
and the way in which they were jockeyed, but merely glanced
at the spiritual wonder connected with the event, and in
some cases did not notice it at all. The statement here made
is sufficiently illustrated by the following report of the race
which I quote from a newspaper published shortly after the
occurrence of the event:—
“ Melbourne Cup.—A sweepstakes of 20 sovereigns each
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 29, 1878.
146
10 forfeit or 5 if declared, with 300 sovereigns added. The
winner of any handicap of the value of 100 sovereigns, after
the declaration of the weights, to carry 3 lbs. extra; if two
or more such races, 5 lbs. extra. The second horse to receive
5.0 sovereigns, and the third to save his stakes. Two miles.
Nimblefoot... ... ... ... 1
Lapdog ... ... ... ... 2
Yalentine ... ... .;. ... 3
“ There were twenty-eight starters for the Cup, and all got
away well, and in passing the Grand Stand, the varied
colours of the riders swiftly moving in the sunlight was a !
fine sight; Barbelle had a slight lead, with Sir John second, j
and Preetor third; this position was maintained as far as
the old stand at the abattoirs, when Strop’s colours showed
to the front, with Glencoe well' up and going well; Warrior ;
meanwhile was all behind, and though he seemed to make i
an effort and passed some of the horses, his chance of winning j ]
the race was looked upon as nil. Croydon now put on a jj
• spurt, and took his place in the van, with Tim Whiffler in j
close proximity; but in the straight running Lapdog and |
Nimblefoot shot ahead, and raced neck and neck, the latter |
horse’s nose just catching the judge’s eye ; Yalentine third, l]
Croydon fourth, Strop fifth, Tim Whiffler sixth, and Glencoe j
seventh ; Trump Card and Warrior nowhere. |]
u The official time is given as 3.37, Mr. Craig, the late j|
owner of Nimblefoot, before he died, dreamt that his horse 1|
would be the next winner of the Melbourne Cup, and that j
the jockey would wear crape on his arm. Day, who rode j)
Nimblefoot, had mourning on his arm to-day" j
There are three noticeable things connected with this j
dream and its fulfilment:
1. Mr. Craig dreamt that his horse would win the Mel- |
bourne Cup, and he dreamt this some time before his death, j
2. In his dream he saw the rider of Nimblefoot wearing
crape upon his arm.
3. After the death of the dreamer, the horse Nimblefoot jj
won the Melbourne Cup, and his rider had mourning on his j
arm pursuant to the dream.
It is quite possible that Mr. Craig, prior to his death, had
frequently speculated upon the probability of his horse
winning the Cup which he meant him to run for, and hence,
the mere dream of the horse winning might have been a
reproduction in sleep of one of his lively waking fancies.
But coupled with this part of the dream we notice the sym¬
bolical premonition of death, namely, the jockey wearing
crape on his arm, and, finally, the death of the dreamer;
thus completely realising all the particulars of the dream.
To say that all these things occurred by mere coincidence is
equivalent to saying that they happened as they did happen, j
for coincidence means nothing more than this, and, besides, j
explains nothing. Assuming the facts to have been correctly j
reported, a sufficient explanation of them on the spiritual !
hypothesis is easy. Some spirit interested in Mr. Craig’s j
welfare, perceiving from the state of his organism that his j
death was near, or obtaining a knowledge of the fact from j
some other source, impressed his mind in a dream, but was j
perhaps unable, or was not permitted, to do more than j
symbolise the approaching event. Perhaps the spirit could
not act on his mind except in connection with his ruling j
love j hence his racehorse figures prominently in his dream. I
The crape on the jockey’s arm was the symbol of death, j
The object might have been a friendly design on the part of j
the impressing spirit to make the doomed man think of his I
approaching end, and so lead him away from the frivolous j
pursuits in which he was then engaged to higher and nobler I
studies and practices. I regard this dream as having had a j
spiritual origin, because it admits of explanation upon that I
hypothesis, and because it harmonises with numerous other j
analogous dreams the spiritual origin of which is more j
clearly indicated by the special circumstances connected j
with them.
A LIFE SAVED BY A DREAM. j
An analogous instance of providential interposition I j
quote from a Tasmanian paper, the Cornwall Chronicle of j
July 24th, 1871. The narrative states that—
“ An old man known only by the sobriquet Jeff, a wood-
splitter, was asleep in his hut at Bridgenorth, on the West
Tamar, on Friday night (the night of the great storm), when
he dreapit that he was about to be killed, and awoke in 1
j j great terror. He seized his trousers, and fortunately waited
jj for no other clothing, as he had barely time to get to a safe
j! distance from his hut when a tree fell and crushed it to
jj pfoms. He then made for the nearest house, and related
jj what had happened to him.”
[j The dream of this man also admits of explanation on the
j spiritual hypothesis. A friendly spirit perceived the wood-
j cutter’s danger, inspired him with fear in a dream, and
j stimulated him to fly when he awoke. He yielded to the
jj impression on his mind, and, as a result, escaped death.
'I SYNCHRONOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCES.
!j The next story I have to relate is recorded in an evening
paper of the 29th May," 1871, published at Wellington,’in
j New Zealand. The event narrated will appear to the
Spiritualist intrinsically probable, because it is distinguished
by most of the usual characteristics of a veritable ghostly
appearance. I give it in the words of the narrator :—
“ A few evenings ago a young lady, who occupies the
same sleeping apartment (but not the same bed) with a
younger sister, had retired to rest shortly before midnight.
The younger sister had been asleep for some time. The
elder sister’s bed stood in front of a window at some little
distance from it, and a chair stood between the bed and the
window. The young lady was lying on her side, with her
back to the window, and was on the point of dropping off to
sleep, and, as she avers, without the remotest thought of
ghost or goblin crossing her mind, when suddenly she
became aware of something like a dim shadow being cast
across her eyes; she started, and turned quickly round to
find herself confronted by a tall gentleman—dressed in black
coat and trousers, wearing a white waistcoat with black spots,
and gloves on his hands—half leaning over her. His figure
and features were clearly limned against the window, and
she instantly recognised the face of a gentleman formerly a
resident in Wellington, deceased some twelve months or so.
Her look was only momentary, but it was clear; and, filled
with terror, she screamed repeatedly to her sister, who after
some little time awoke. The ghost disappeared at the first
sound of her voice, and she was too much agitated to observe
which way it went. The younger sister asked what was the
matter; the elder sister replied by desiring her to come
into the other bed, and she would tell the cause of her
trouble in the morning. Having lain down beside her,
the younger sister continued to press the elder with
questions as to what she had seen or heard, and asking her
whether she had not seen a man in the room. To this the
elder sister replied that she had, when the younger rejoined,
1 Then I know who it was; it was Mr. ,’ mentioning
the name of the very man whom her sister had seen. Much
surprised, the elder asked, * Hid you see him, too, then ?’
‘No,’ said the younger; f but while I was asleep the
impression was borne vividly on my mind that he was in
[ | the room.’ On being subsequently questioned how she came
j to think that the party she named was in the room, she said
j she could not tell, and had not thought of him before
since his death; but she seemed to know intuitively that
I he was present, without feeling the alarm that was felt by
j her sister.”
The sceptic’s explanation of this remarkable experience
will, doubtless, be that it was a dream, and that both sisters
dreamt the same kind of dream, or else two dreams nearly
j alike, by a kind of singular coincidence; just as in cases of
j trance, occurring during those periods of religious excite-
j ment which are called revivals, two persons will pass into a
j trance and awaken from it at the same time, and, sometimes,
j with the same word upon their lips. But this explanation
j is far-fetched, and does not meet all the difficulties of the
j case ; for, if the dreams of the two sisters arose out of any
j peculiarity of their mental natures, or of their nervous sys¬
tems, we may fairly assume that the same cause would have
been operative in previous instances, and have produced
corresponding effects. If the experience of the sisters was
purely subjective, we may assume that they must have had
similar experiences before; for it is difficult to conceive of
the mode in which the nervous systems of the two sisters
could have been brought into precisely the samo state at
the same moment of time, by causes which had never
‘ operated before. We may suppose that a subjective vision
March 29, 1878.
147
THE SPIRITUALIST.
might be produced in one person by the operation of internal !
causes; but we are not warranted by any facts that we know |
of to assume that an analogous experience of this kind could |
be produced in two persons at the same moment of time by
such causes. It is not recorded that the sisters ever had such j
an experience before, and we have no right to assume that they |
had. To attempt to explain the dream and vision by the |
supposition of coincidence, is first to take for granted that j
the experience of the sisters was simply dreaming, and,
secondly, to re-state the fact that these dreams occurred at
the same moment of time; for the coincidence of any two i
events signifies the happening of those two events together; |
hence to say that the dreams of the sisters were of the same j
nature and occurred at the same time by coincidence, is
merely to state in different words the original assumption,
namely, that the sisters dreamt two dreams nearly alike at
or about the same time. Coincidence, therefore, explains
nothing: nor is, there any reason for believing that the
sisters merely dreamt dreams. The facts recorded indicate
the exertion of an objective rather than of a subjective in¬
fluence. On the spiritual hypothesis they admit of explana¬
tion, but on any other hypothesis are insuperably difficult.
The sister who saw the ghostly man was, at the time, a
seeing medium, and the sister who was asleep was an im¬
pressionable one. The reason why the ghost appeared to
the waking sister we do not know, and it may be that its
appearance took place without design on its part, the whole
affair perhaps being merely an accidental rencontre and
nothing more : that is, the ghostly man happened to be
present at the precise moment when the young lady’s
spiritual vision was opened, and she saw him. This expla¬
nation is as reasonable as, if not more so than, any other.
PREVISION OP A MURDER.
In the Australian Penny Magazine, a journal edited by j
myself, and which became a ghost through want of support,' j
the following spontaneous spiritual manifestations are re- j
corded. I wrote the accounts myself after having cross- I
examined the witnesses :—
Mrs. I. Baker, the wife of a respectable farmer residing j
near Bathurst in New South Wales, gave me the particulars
of a remarkable dream which she once dreamt, and which
dream, unfortunately for the parties concerned, was literally
fulfilled. On one occasion she retired to rest in her usual
state of health, and dreamt that she was in a strange place,
the soil of which appeared to have been turned up in heaps
in a rather grotesque manner. She thought in her dream
that her mother, who had been dead for twenty years, was
with her, and was clad in robes of white; but this circum¬
stance did not surprise her. As she walked along in company
with her mother, she thought they reached a place where
two men were lying on the ground mangled and bleeding.
Going up to them she stooped down, raised the head of one
of them in her hands, and then recognised the features as
those of her eldest son. The head seemed to fall to one side
as if it had been nearly severed from the body, and there
was a great gash in the neck. | He is dead,’ exclaimed the
dreamer, but the mother of the dreamer said, ‘ No, he is not
dead, but he will take a long time to recover.’ When Mrs.
Baker awoke she was greatly disturbed by the remembrance
of her dream, believing that it portended some evil to her
eldest son; but on relating it to her family they ridiculed
her fears. The son, at this time, was away from home
engaged in work of some kind on an adjoining farm, and on
his return some days afterwards he announced that he and
a person named Skinner had agreed to go and try their luck
at the Native Dog Creek goldfield. The ghost of the
mother’s dream rose up before the eye of her mind, and she
strongly exhorted him not to go. Finally, she was induced j
by ridicule and persuasion to give her consent to her son’s 1
departure, and accordingly he went to the Diggings. Shortly j
afterwards there was a riot between the Chinese and
European and Australian diggers on this gold-field, and I
Baker and Skinner, who at the time were at the bottom of |
their shaft, hearing a noise, went up to the surface to see |'
what was going on, but had hardly reached it when a body of j1
Chinamen armed with pickaxes and shovels so severely mal- .
treated them that they were left for dead on the field. Baker }j
was cut in exactly the way his mother had seen him cut in her fi
dream, and had the same sort of gash in the neck that she ''
| had specially noticed. Medical attendance happened to be
| at hand ; a tent was fixed over the wounded man ; and he
| lay for many weeks before he could be removed. He finally
j recovered, but will retain as long as he lives the marks of
j the severe injuries he received. We had this dream related
! to us by Mrs. Baker herself, and, on further inquiry, obtained
| from her husband and others much corroborative information
| respecting it. This information rendered it unquestionably
I evident that Mrs. Baker had made known her dream for at
| least fourteen days before the occurrence of the event to
| which the dream was related, and also that her son had not
j intended to go to the Diggiugs at the time when the dream
j occurred. This latter fact shuts out the supposition that the
i son had acted mesmerically on the mother’s mind, and in I
I that way produced her dream, and the completeness and
j well-defined character of the dream obviously point to im-
j pression by a spirit as the true cause of it.
SPIRITS NEAR THE BEDS OP THE DVING.
Another fact which I have had an opportunity of in-
| quiring into may be thus stated. Mrs. N •, the wife of
I a blacksmith who resided about twenty miles from Bathurst,
| had a son who was familiarly called Tommy, and who
i though a splendid horseman was nevertheless killed through
j being thrown by a buckjumping horse. The saddle turned
j round on the vicious animal while he was in the act of buck-
| ing, and the result was that the unfortunate young man was
j pitched head foremost on to a stone and received injuries
from which he died. This event occurred several years
before the death of Mrs. N , and naturally made a great
impression on her mind, for the deceased was greatly loved
by her. In process of time Mrs. N  was seized with a
disorder that proved fatal. Just before she died she raised
her head slightly off the pillow, turned over in the bed, and
exclaiming, “ There’s Tommy,” expired. An intelligent little
girl, who happened to be in the room when Mrs. N died,
related the circumstance to us shortly afterwards quite as an
ordinary matter of fact; and this little girl was in every
| respect a reliable witness, and had no knowledge of Spirit-
| ualism or of the theories maintained by those who believe
| in it. The presumption warranted by the facts of this case
] is that the dying woman, whilst hovering on the borders of
I eternity, had her spiritual vision opened, and thus was able
| to perceive the spirit-form of her deceased son, who, we may
| reasonably suppose, had come to welcome her to the new
| world she was then about to enter.
Private personal history abounds with incidents and ex¬
periences analogous to the preceding, and all apparently
| warranting the inference that there is a world of spiritual
| beings to which we are intimately related, and which is
! quite distinct from, although interblended with, the material
I world in which we live.
AN APPARITION AT THE TIME OP DEATH.
A lady of great intelligence and worth related to me the
| following story, the particulars of which she had obtained
| from her mother, who, along with my informant’s grand-
| • mother, Mrs. Glode, resided on Clapham Common in the
j vicinity of London. Mrs. Glode had in her employ a
| domestic servant named Lizzie, who, being a tried and
| faithful help, and a woman of great piety and worth, was
much respected by the family. On one occasion Lizzie was
the subject of what a sceptic would call a post-prandial
nightmare, for she sat down in a chair after dinner and fell
asleep, and whilst asleep dreamt that the pantry door opened,
and that an emblematic figure resembling that of Time
emerged from the pantry and spoke to her, assuring her
that on that day fortnight she would be numbered with the
| dead. She awoke, and soon afterwards took occasion to
] ' report the dream to her mistress, and to express her belief
I that it would be fulfilled. The family tried to reason with
| her respecting the folly of placing any reliance on a dream,
j and to laugh her out of her fears, but without effect. In
| about a week after the date of her dream Lizzie fell sick in
| the night, and the doctor who was called in, after the lapse
| of a day or two, pronounced her complaint the worst form of
I typhus fever, and recommended her immediate removal to
| an hospital. Previous to her removal, however, my in-
| formant’s mother, then a young girl, had, from motives of
kindness and friendship, attended Lizzie in her illness,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 2&, 187S.
148
handing her such things as she needed, and performing ||
many little offices for her. On “the day fortnight” men- !(
tioned by the figure of Time to Lizzie, a lady was visiting ! j
the inmates of the house on Clapham Common, and had an m
infant child with her. My informant’s mother, whose name I
was Nancy, was holding the child in her arms in one of the j
lower rooms, when she heard Lizzie’s voice crying sharply |
“Nancy—Nancy—Nancy,” and forgetting that Lizzie had j
been sent to the hospital, she quickly handed the baby she j
was holding to its mother and ran upstairs to Lizzie’s room, j
under the impression that something was wanted. When j
she got inside the room she saw Lizzie standing in the j
middle of it, and the bed empty. The whole truth then |
flashed upon her mind, and she became greatly frightened, j
At the same time Mrs. Grlode, who was in another room |
downstairs, saw the door of the room slowly open, and per¬
ceived a hand holding it, and almost immediately afterwards j
Lizzie’s face was seen peeping round the door and smiling,
while the word “ Mrs.” was audibly pronounced. Mrs. Glode
by a rapid process of reasoning at once concluded that she
had seen a vision, and that Lizzie was dead. My in- 1
formant’s mother rushed down stairs in a state of fright and j
stated that she had seen Lizzie, to which Mrs. Glode re- j
sponded by narrating her own experience. A messenger j
was despatched to the hospital to make inquiries respecting j
Lizzie, and on his return he announced that she was dead, j
It was ascertained afterwards that she had died at or about j
the time when her apparition was seen. My informant j
heard all the particulars of this very curious case related !
repeatedly by her mother who saw the vision ; but as all the
persons directly connected with the affair are dead, no cor¬
roborative evidence of the story can be obtained. It has
often been asserted by those who are sceptical with respect j
to the reality of ghostly appearances that they always are
seen at night, when the imagination is liable to be deceived;
but this vision was seen in broad daylight by two persons
in separate rooms, and who at the moment of beholding the
vision had no communication with each other, and did not
expect to witness an apparition.
SIXTEEN LIVES SAVED BT A MENTAL IMPRESSION. |
But the Australian press is not singular in regard to this 1 j
matter. The European press often luxuriates in descriptions
of spontaneous phenomena. I quote the following as a
sample of the tales which often appear in European news- j
papers. The European Mail of March 26, 1868, quotes it
from the Court Journal, the latter having stated it on the I
authority of the Dowager Lady Lyttleton, of Hagley Hall:—
“ Admiral Sir Thomas Williams, a straightforward and j
excellent man, founder of the Royal Naval Female School
for the education of naval officers’ daughters, was in com¬
mand of a ship crossing the Atlantic Ocean. His course
brought him within sight of the Island of Ascension, at that
time uninhabited, and never visited by any ship except for
the purpose of collecting turtles, which abound on the coast.
The island was barely descried on the horizon, and was not
to be noticed at all; but as Sir Thomas looked at it, he was
seized by an unaccountable desire to steer towards it. He
felt how strange such a wish must appear to his crew, and j
tried to disregard it—but in vain. His desire became more !
and more urgent and distressing, and foreseeing that it would |
soon be more difficult to gratify it, he told his lieutenant j
to prepare to put about ship and steer for Ascension. The I
officer to whom he spoke ventured respectfully to represent |
that changing their course would greatly delay them—that
just at that moment the men were going to their dinner—
that, at least, some delay might be allowed. But these
arguments seemed to increase Captain Williams’s anxiety,
and he gave the word of command which is never resisted. j
He saw in the countenances of his officers an expression of j
wonder and even blame, as strong as is ever shown on an !
order from the captain, but he was obeyed, and the ship was |
steered towards the uninteresting little island. All eyes and j
spyglasses were now fixed upon it, and soon something was
perceived on the shore. 4 It is white—it is a flag—it must j |
be a signal!’ and when they neared the shore it was ascer- j j
tained that sixteen men, wrecked on that coast many days |||
before, and suffering the extremity of hunger, had set up a |||
signal though almost without hope of relief. The ship- jj]
wrecked men were taken on board and the voyage com-*
pleted. Sir Thomas related this anecdote in the simplest
and most tranquil manner in 1813, years after the date of
its occurrence, to the writer of this account.”
The facts mentioned in this narrative are explicable on the
spiritual hypothesis, but not on any other. A spirit im¬
pressed the captain’s mind, and induced him to visit the isle
on which the shipwrecked men were starving. The facts
show that this impression was not owing to mesmeric
influence exerted by the shipwrecked men on the mind of a
mesmerisable sensitive approaching the island. Had it been
produced by any such influence, there would have been other
elements in the captain’s experience than the simple but
irrepressible desire to visit Ascension. The dream-pictures
produced occasionally in the minds of mesmeric sensitives
differ widely from Captain Williams’s experience.
A DEAD BODY FOUND IN CONSEQUENCE OF A DREAM.
I might easily extend this article to an almost indefinite
length. The facts I have quoted, however, will serve as
samples of the phenomena which this essay is designed to
bring under the notice of the reader. I might add the
narrative of the Port Macquarie ghost, as related by the
Macleay Herald a year or two back, and also an account of a
remarkable dream which a boundary rider named Greenwood
had, and which led to the discovery of the body of a man
who had been drowned and was for a long time missing.
The spirit of the drowned man appeared to Greenwood in a
dream and told him where the body would be found, and
when the place thus indicated was searched the body was
found. The circumstances were described in the local news¬
paper at the time of their occurrence, and were also mentioned
at the magisterial inquiry held when the body was discovered.
The Bendigo papers, and indeed all our newspapers do a little
in the ghostly line whenever they have a chance. I am not
called on to vouch for the accuracy of any of the stories they
relate, as my object here is not to defend the authenticity of
such tales, but to show that if they are true, they admit of
explanation on the hypothesis of Spiritualists, but not on any
other. Spiritualism embraces them all and explains them
all, therefore ought to be regarded as a true theory.
GENERAL CONCLUSIONS.
I am quite free to admit that the records of ghost lore
contain an immense mass of facts mingled with a large amount
of folly and superstition. The latter are often sufficiently
dense to blunt the edge of the keenest and most eager criti¬
cism. Science recoils from the investigation of a subject
which appears to be so interwoven with self-illusion, mental
weakness, and imposture. Indeed, to such an extent does
this feeling prevail that many men styling themselves philo¬
sophers refuse to investigate any alleged supernatural occur¬
rence, for fear that, by examining it they should damage
their great reputations. How the world will either laugh at
or pity them a hundred years hence. Grandiloquent science
raises its hat and bows deferentially to a rare frog or a new
aphis, but refuses to examine any facts, which might, pos¬
sibly, lead to the recognition of the supernatural, or throw
light on the mystery of human destiny. Of all the various
species of folly we behold in the world, this one is the most
pitiable. The man who is not capable of braving the ridicule
of unreasoning ignorance in his pursuit of truth is unworthy
of being called a philosopher.
This contempt for alleged supernatural appearances and
events is productive of much evil, because it leaves the exam¬
ination of all such appearances and events in the hands of
men who are frequently incapable of investigating them
sufficiently. Hence, we have such a multitude of incon¬
sequential and badly authenticated ghost stories current in
our literature. The perusal of these tends to produce a false
impression on the reader’s mind with respect to the nature and
value of all similar stories. The narrator often omits men¬
tioning some material circumstance, which, if known would
alter the entire complexion of the narrative, and, sometimes,
he dwells on the minor details of the case so as to exaggerate
them out of all due proportion to their merits. The general
result is that many ghost stories do not furnish a proper
basis for inductive reasoning; and hence arises one of the
many difficulties we have to contend against whenever we
attempt to investigate this interesting subject. We ought
not, however, to conclude that because some ghost stories
are not well authenticated that they are not true, nor yet
March 29, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST. ' 149
that all stories of the sort are inconsequential, and teach no
useful lesson. As philosophic thinkers we ought to endea- j
vour in every case to separate the golden grain of truth from
the chaff which often invests it, and accept no fact as a basis |
for reasoning unless it will bear the closest add most rigid j
scrutiny.
Surrey Hills, Sydney, New South Wales, January 16th, 1878.
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION OP INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
OBJECTIONS TO CERTAIN TEACHINGS IN CONNECTION WITH SPIRITUALISM.
On Monday, last week, Herr Christian Reimers read a paper on
“ Objections to Certain Teachings in Connection with Spiritualism,”
before the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, at the
rooms of the Association, 58, Sigdon-road, Hackney, London. Mr. Gr.
R. Tapp presided.
Herr Christian Reimers said that before the advent of Spiritualism
its followers had, like everybody else, been trampled into the mud of
Materialism, but by the light of the new lamp saw with horror the mess
in which they were placed. He thought that the Almighty Himself
must begin to think that He has made the professors of physical j
science too clever, when He sees them besmearing His beautiful de¬
signs with all the mortal stuff within their reach, and greedily watching
for every new visitor of a spiritual nature, to give him a coating of the
mess upon their carpet. Spiritualists in the middle of the mess should I
use soap and water plentifully. But when some of the heralds of the j
new era saw anybody with a glass of cheering liquor in his hand, they S
pointed at it as unbecoming the Divine destination of man; the eating j
of a hearty piece of roast beef was accounted a crime ; and when a man
took a cigar, the mass of condemnation hurled at the little weed almost
made the smoker drop it in terror. Before they made up their minds
to part with these nice little stepping-stones on earth’s pilgrimage, ere
as yet their wings had grown, perhaps a brighter view of these
indulgences might be acceptable. Drunken men and women were most
repulsive spectacles, but he maintained that excess in anything was
reprehensible, including “ excess in abstinence.” He wished to draw a
line between use and abuse. Men could tell what their own constitu¬
tions required better than any scientific matter-hunters. Once upon a
time, when an American doctor died at the age of rather more than one
hundred years, a body of teetotalers called upon his son, a boy of
eighty, to hear his confirmation of the successful working of their prin¬
ciples. The son began—“ Gentlemen, my father’s first rule was regu¬
larity—(Hear, hear)—and soberness—(Ah! We knew that!)—nobody
ever saw him the worse for liquor. (Cheers.) The first thing in the
morning he took a little whisky, rather weak—(They hoped he only
drank it medicinally). Then he took his breakfast, finishing
with a glass of old port. He afterwards went his round, and dined at
six on plenty of roast meat with a bottle of claret, winding up with a
pipe and a glass of stiff punch.” By this time the teetotalers had
cleared out of the house, leaving only some new candidates to hear the
Jinale, setting forth how the deceased took a glass of strong grog after
supper. What was good for one man might not be good for another; a
vigorous man, always on the move, might eat or drink almost anything.
Some years ago he ascended a Swiss mountain nine thousand feet high,
and although when half-way up, water from the mountain rills was very
acceptable, higher up he still more appreciated his sandwiches and
fiery claret. A parson once pointed out that Nature was so generous
that she grew half a bottle of wine for the dinner of every man, where¬
upon a discontented member of the flock expressed the wish that he
could find the chap who robbed him of his share. He (Mr. Reimers)
lived with a remarkable medium, and one night he went to the Opera;
on his way home he had a strong but unexpressed desire for some wine
and cake; he went to his bedroom, the door of which had been secured
by him befpre leaving home ; on unfastening the door and entering the
room, he saw on a shelf over his bed four vases of flowers arranged I
round a glass of port wine and a plate with cakes. The spirits were in
the habit of putting things in his room in this way. After such a
manifestation, should he be blasphemous in pointing out that the Saviour.
turned water into wine, but not wine into water? Then as to vege¬
tarianism, he thought that the eating of less meat might be good, but
that the “ killing ” argument had no weight; they killed numerous small
living organisms with every breath of air they took into their lungs, i
Women might do much by introducing more vegetables at dinner, and j
making some of the vegetables look and taste as much like meat as j
possible. Could they not make with beetroot and other vegetables a j
beefsteak so much like the real thing that their husbands would praise
the butcher ? Something of the same kind occurred when a farmer j
who found himself short of grass bought up much waste paper from j
bookbinders, cut it into long, narrow strips, and fixed green spectacles j
on the noses of his sheep, who then grazed away with a vengeance; this j
story, however, was not well authenticated. Observation proved that |
heroes in science, art, and spirituality, had a rich vein of roast beef and
wine running through their lives; the great Handel usually ordered j
dinner for two, that he might get meat enough; Goethe would not talk j
on politics or literature while discussing his wine and roast beef. He j
hoped to see the day when the Spiritualists of London would get up a
grand dinner for both beef-and-wine believers and for teetotalers with |
their teacups. What a jolly flow , of speeches there would be after- j
wards! What should he say about the wicked cigar, when he was
writing that paper for the Dalston Association enveloped in the fumes j
of the Devil’s incense ? The worst thing to be said against smoking
tobacco was the lack of antiquity of the custom. If a Dr. Schliemann i
should one day disinter a regular clay-pipe with a piece of honeydew |
from under the Great Pyramid, shouts of joy would arise from the great j
army of smokers, He thought that smoking tobacco had a soothing
effect; it was like mesmerising one’s-self, not only by the direct effects
of the weed, but by the constant attention required to manage the
ashes and to study the ever-varying forms of the clouds; these things
drew the mind away from the cares of earth. If any experimentalist
did not like his first cigar, he advised him to buy his next one at
another shop; there was much adulteration about, but a genuine
Havana was good. When theorists said that smoking was bad, a vision
passed before his eyes of the smokers of all ages, headed by German
parsons with their cheerful, ruddy, healthy faces, and their pipes
holding half-a-pint of tobacco. The future writer of history would
probably have to point to the grand dispensation of the tobacco period,
and its effects upon the development of mankind, and to do it after the
last puff had vanished from the horizon. But as long as they smoked
tobacco let them talk about it in a reasonable way, and not in a dog¬
matic fashion.
At the close of the reading of the paper a few critical remarks were
made by the Chairman, Mr. and Mrs. Weeks, Mr. Regan, Mr. Lovell,
and Mr. Dottridge, and the proceedings closed with a warm vote of
thanks to Mr. Reimers.
MISCELLANEOUS MEETINGS.
Mrs. Bassett was present at the ordinary weekly seance of the Dalston
Association on Thursday evening last week, when her mediumship
proved a source of much interest to a large circle of members present.
In the course of the seance Messrs. John Rouse, J. Connor, and others,
described various spirits clairvoyantly visible to them, which were in
some cases recognised by other sitters.
Arrangements have been made by the Dalston Association for a sub¬
scription seance with Mr. W. Eglinton, on Tuesday evening next, the
| tickets for which are all bespoke.
On Thursday evening next an inspirational trance discourse is to be
| delivered through the mediumship of Mr. J. J. Morse before the Dalston
j Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism. A cordial invitation to
! attend is held out to all those interested in the inspirational phase of
mediumship as exhibited in the person of Mr. J. J. Morse, honorary
member of the Association.
| Private family seances are steadily increasing in the neighbourhoods
| of Dalston, Clapton, Hackney, and Kingsland, and at them some
remarkable manifestations are sometimes witnessed; they incite closer
investigation into the subject of Spiritualism.
On Monday next, at 8.30 p.m., Mr. Morell Theobald will read a
paper to the Dalston Association on “ Christianity and Spiritualism :
their Mutual Relation.”
IS MAN’S IMMORTALITY CONDITIONAL?
A lady has sent the following communication, taken
down from the utterances of a trance-medium in the month
of April, altogether prior, therefore, to the late raising of the
question of t( conditional immortality —
“ Friend, you are right. Keep our Spiritualism pure and
| high, for there are those who would lower its uses. But it
| is because they know not the power of true Spiritualism. It
| is true, in a sense, that the spirit can overcome the flesh,
| but there are those to whom the fleshly life is dearer than
j the life of the spirit. They tread on dangerous ground.
| For the flesh may so outgrow the spirit, as to withdraw from
| it all real spirituality, and man becomes as a beast of the
| field, with no saving power left. These are they whom the
I Church has termed reprobate—eternally lost. But they
| suffer not, as the Church has taught, in conscious hells; they
| merely die, and are not; their light goes out, and has no
| conscious being.”
Q. But is not this the doctrine of annihilation ?
A. “It amounts to annihilation. Such souls lose their
| individual entities, and return to the great reservoir of spirit
| —unconscious spirit. It is to preserve conscious life, that
churches have existed; they have not always understood
their mission, but they have endeavoured to do their work.
This is a solemn subject, but it has been presented to me, to
give to you again.”
Q. Bo you know of any case of the annihilation of a human
| soul?
A. “Yes, I do. But the case is not so common as the
believers in hell imagined, because they commit to hell all
| those who do not think as they do. I would help those I am
I permitted to influence, to preserve the highest purity in
thought and life ; as I told you before the reasons for this,
| I will not repeat them, neither will I say that others who
think and teach differently, have not, like myself, their
| special missions to perform. Purity and truth and highest
| good must be right for all, but all may not be ready to
receive the same truths. And unless truth reaches the mind
I to which it is sent, it has no influence, and the result is
therefore the same as if it had not been sent. Farewell.”
| Mr. G. C. Joad has left the South of France for London. Dr,
Robert S. Wyld is now in Italy,
150 THE SPlEITUALlST. March 29, 1878.
DR. SLADE IN RUSSIA.' j I
Dr. Slade is fully engaged in St. Petersburg, giving i
s&ances to various inquirers. Up to March 17 th he had !
given three seances to the Grand Duke Constantine at his
palace, and not upon Dr. Slade’s own premises; and an j
arrangement had been made to give the Duke a seance for
form manifestations last Tuesday night. Scarcely any of j
the copies of The Spiritualist and Banner of Light, which have
been posted to Dr. Slade from London have reached him, no
doubt in consequence of the press supervision which fetters the
dissemination of knowledge in despotic countries. Some of I
the residents in St. Petersburg receive their newspapers
defaced by black patches, due to the obliteration of obnoxious
paragraphs by the authorities. J
“ PSYCHOGRAPHY.”
The new book by “ M.A. (Oxon),” on Psyckograpky
(Harrison: 1878), was published last Tuesday. During the j
persecution of Dr. Slade, evidence of exceptional strength
was evolved, proving the genuineness of the phenomena, and
in the book now under notice the best of this has been ;
selected, together with testimony in favour of the same 1
manifestations through other mediums. All this evidence !
has been threaded together in an orderly manner by a clever ]
author, accompanied by pointed essays as to the general <
bearing of the facts and the various conclusions which may |]
be drawn from them. The little book is handsomely printed ! {
and bound, and is illustrated with diagrams. Little allusion <
is made in it to the persecutors of Dr. Slade, but as the <
evidence in it is overwhelming that the phenomena are real, | {
it tells against the aggressors with crushing force as a H
historical record. It is a book which should be in all |<
libraries. Those Spiritualists who subscribe to public |j
libraries,-should constantly worry the managers if they do !
not supply psychological books when those books are ordered
by their supporters. In ordering any book from such j
libraries, the name and address of the publisher should {
always be given, that the librarian may have no valid excuse \
for withholding the supply. !
PRIVATE SEANCES.
On Wednesday, last week, a seance was held at the house
of Miss Ottley, 41, Denbigh-street, Belgravia, London. One
of the hands of Mr. C. E. Williams, the medium, was held
by Miss Ottley, and the other by Sir Hastings Doyle. The
other sitters were Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, the Misses
Emmett and two other ladies, Mr. G. Ottley, Mr. De
Morgan, Captain Inglefield, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Under these conditions, in the dark, and in a house which
the medium had entered but once before in his life, a playing
guitar belonging to Miss Ottley flew about over the heads
of the sitters, tapping one and another of them on the
head as requested. Sir Hastings Doyle’s opera hat was
opened, placed upon his head, and adjusted as he requested,
and a pencil which he held in his hand was at request taken I
from him without any previous “ fumbling,” or feeling for
its whereabouts in the dark.- Many other little things, sur- <
prising enough to novices, but not of much interest to the !
experienced, took place. A few spirit-lights were seen ;
floating about, and the guitar was knocked against the high i
ceiling by request. All this time the hands of the sitters, !
as well as those of the medium, were linked together in a ;
circular chain.
Atadark seance held last Saturday night at Mrs. Makdougall )!
^Gregory’s, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, Mr. j;
Eglinton was the medium. Violent noises upon the table |(
began while the hands of the sitters were interlinked. A j!
small box was smashed to pieces, and the chairs of two or j |
three of the sitters pulled from them, and upset on the |1
floor. It was said, by raps, that a bad influence had some !!
time previously found its way into the house, and the seance I'
was brought to an abrupt termination. j
Mr. J. L. O’Sullivan is now in London, en route for San Francisco, j
Mr. C. E. Williams recently gave a stance at Oxford; Mr. Eglinton
also gave four at Cambridge, at which many undergraduates made a [
study of the phenomena.
THE MANIFESTATION IN NAPLES OF THE ALLEGED
SPIRIT OF NANA SAHIB.
BT G. DAMIANI.
Je va sans dire, that I feel confident of the identity of
the spirit who manifested here under the name of Nana
| Sahib. Let me give the reasons for the faith which is in
| me. The trance medium through whom Nana manifested
I is the Baroness Cerrapica, with whom, for the last eight or
j nine years, we have had an average of two seances per week;
| with her we have often had two in a day. Now, in the hun-
| dreds of seances thus obtained, we have never met with one
j single mystification, and great numbers of spirits who have
! manifested through this truly extraordinary medium have
[ scarcely ever failed in establishing their identity. They
| have done 'so in different ways. If known by any present,
| they'have entered into such minute details of their own life,
| as to leave not the slightest doubt of their existence. Those
| who have lived in the remote past, returning at intervals,
i sometimes of one or two years, take up the thread of thesubject-
i matter of their previous communication, and assume the same
manner and voice as before. Others have entertained the
j circle with narratives of historical events, in which they
have taken an important or prominent part; giving facts
to a certainty unknown, not only to the medium—who,
although an educated lady, is not much versed in historical
j lore—but even to scholars present; all the statements, on
verification, were found perfectly correct. I hope these are
sufficient reasons for justification, if I firmly believe that
the spirit who a few days ago manifested at my circle, was
no other than the man he professed to be—the famous Nana
| Sahib; and, as I do not believe that he has ever manifested
elsewhere, I think it would interest your readers if I sent a
short account of what he said, the which I do also at the
i request of six English ladies present, who, not spoilt, as I
am, by the wondrous seances I have witnessed with this
| lady medium, have been so struck by what occurred that
they have expressed a strong desire that I should publish
j the account.
On the evening of 17 th March, twelve of us sat at the
j usual stance; six were English ladies, and amongst them
I Mrs. and Miss Arundale, Mrs. and Miss Folkiner, all of
London, and Mrs.Beij, born in India, from English parents.
In the midst of our conversation, the medium suddenly fell
into a deep trance, perceiving which, Mrs. Beij, who had not
been present at more than two stances before, and who was
sitting opposite the medium, changed her position, and
placed herself behind her, jocularly saying, “ I will see if
the spirits can guess where I am.” In a few minutes a
spirit took perfect control, and, being asked his name, the
| medium instantly turned round, and, facing the Indian
j lady, said, in a somewhat gruff and loud voice, “ Nana
I Sahib.” Here Mrs. Beij became rather excited, and bitterly
reproached the spirit for having caused the death of her
brother, who was killed in the great Indian mutiny, and,
I with warmth, reminded him of the horrible well of Lucknow,
j which will make him go down to posterity as the greatest
I of monsters in human shape. The spirit listened to these
| reproaches as though struck with astonishment, and then,
I raising his hand in a threatening attitude, exclaimed,
I “ Madame, you ought to have your head blown off.” (Meri-
j tereste un tremendo schiaffo.) “ You lie in the throat when
j you say that I killed your brother! I cared not a button
for him. I ordered a general massacre, as it was my duty to
do, and you reproach me for having performed the greatest
act of patriotic heroism; and you, an Indian born, reproach
me for it! Shame unto you! A thousand shames ! Cruelties
undoubtedly were committed, but I knew nothing about
them, and could not control the manner of annihilating the
thievish invaders of my fatherland. Your prediction will
be confounded, for my name will go down to the most dis¬
tant posterity of my countrymen as the greatest, though
most unfortunate, hero of India. You repressed the mutiny,
but do not rest too confident on your temporary triumph;
| for the time will come when you will all be destroyed by the
| hands of my brave countrymen. And then monuments will
| be raised to perpetuate my memory in the admiring gene-
j rations of freed Indians.” Here the spirit, becoming greatly
I excited, rose from the chair, and, wheeling the medium round,
threw her rather heavily on the floor. One of the gentlemen
March 29, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST. 151
present and myself tried to pacify the spirit, and begged him [
to raise the medium, who was a lady in delicate health, when he |
said, “ What do you mean by a medium ? I am on my carpet, i (
and here I shall stay.” When he was told that he was not i
on his carpet, hebawled out,a My warriors! my brave ones, come j
to the rescue! Where is my horse? Bring my steed 1 They shall j j
not take me !” On our again begging him to raise the lady j j
whom he was controlling, and explaining to him the laws of j j
mediumship, he exclaimed :—“ What! This is not my body ! I
... I recollect now that I parted with it. . . . Behold j
then Nana Sahib in woman’s clothes! But I am not |
ashamed. No! I feel grateful to this instrument, because j
through her means I have been able to express my feelings |
of abhorrence for the vile, cowardly, and hated. Feringhees ! I
Oh! would that I could cover this lady with my best I
diamonds, pearls and rubies! I have hidden my best !
jewels from the thieves of my country. When I lavished j
them upon the detested British fiends, I was the good, !
the kind, the generous Nana; but when, as they de¬
served, I showered iron and lead upon them to deliver my J
country, I became a monster. Abomination !” Perceiving j i
that the spirit was unable or disinclined to raise the r]
medium from the floor, Canon Fiore and myself lifted her 1
into her chair. Nana then, turning to the Canon, said :—
u I see you are not an Englishman; let me press your hand j J
and tell the medium, that whenever it shall be in my power, I
I will load her with my best jewels, for the opportunity she I
has offered me to give utterance to my feelings of abhorrence |
for the thrice cursed English nation.” I told him that it j
was not the action of a gallant man to speak thus in the pre- I
sence of the ladies of that nation. i{ I know,” he replied, j
“ that they hate me, and I wish them to know that I hate j
their blood. Oh! the beautiful thought of raising the j
*Queen of England to the rank of Empress of India! We i
shall see, how long that will last!” Here a lady present j
said that this was one of Benjamin’s messes, when the spirit |
quickly replied : <l A mess which will never be digested. The
wealth which they have principally derived from robbing my |
country, is corrupting England to the very core, and will j
soon produce their downfall. They shall in their turn be i
conquered and taste the bitterness of foreign dominion. Their
mastery of India will soon have an end; I and my brave
companions are hard at work to accomplish the desired object.
I hope ere long to be again in the flesh, and then Nana Sahib
will be up again to deliver his country from the foreign in¬
truders and marauders.”
Some kindly words spoken by the Canon and myself,
seemed to calm the angry spirit, whom we advised to come
again, to hear from us the way of improving his position.
He seemed somewhat soothed, and exclaiming: u Oh that
I could cover this lady with my jewels ! I feel so much
relieved 1” He uttered a deep sigh and left the control.
It may not be immaterial to state that the Indian mutiny j
of twenty-one years ago—its horrors, Lucknow, Feringhees, I
Nana Sahib, his wealth, his treachery, the horrible well—are |
all things and words perfectly unknown to the medium.
Naples, March 22nd, 1878.
Two debates, opened by Mr. G. R. Smith, on “ Psychology, Spirit- j
ualism, and Cognate Subjects,” closed last Wednesday evening at the
Redland’s Literary and Scientific Society, in connection with the
Unitarian Free Church, Reading. The opponents of Spiritualism had
it nearly all their own way.
Mr. J. J. Morse in London.-—On Sunday next, March 31st, Mr.
Morse, in company with Dr. Peebles, will address the meetings,
afternoon and evening, to be held at Doughty Hall, London. On
Thursday evening, April 4th, Mr. Morse will deliver a trance address
before the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism. On
Friday evening, April 5th, Mr. Morse will hold a special meeting at
Quebec Hall, 25, Great Quebec-street, Marylebone. It is probable that
he will also speak before the Brixton Psychological Society.
Spiritualism in Hull.—On Sunday last Mr. J. Coates, of Liverpool,
gave a second lecture on Spiritualism in the Forester’s Hall, Hull. The
subject was well adapted for the occasion, and the lecturer illustrated
it from Scripture history; he also showed that spirit intercourse had
existed throughout ancient and modern times. At the close of the
lecture, a vote of thanks was given unanimously to Mr. Coates. Mr,
Coates is expected to lecture again in the same hall on Sunday next,
but in case he should be called away from Hull before that time, Mr. J.
Bland, of Hull, will give a discourse. On Sunday, April 7tb, Mr.
Wallace, the “missionary medium” of London, is expected to give a
trance address in the same place. The time of meeting, which has been
7 o’clock, will in future be 6.30 p m.
VISIONS IN MIRRORS AND CRYSTALS/
BT DR. KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE, F.S.A.
In appearing, at the joint request of my esteemed friends, the Rev
Stainton Moses, and Dr. Carter Blake, before your society, for the pur¬
pose of giving you a brief summary of certain phases of my spiritual
experience, I feel that I have to throw myself much upon your indul¬
gence. For several years I have been unable to pursue the same
methodical system of research which at one time occupied almost the
whole of my leisure, into the phenomena connected with crystallomancy.
Many causes contributed to this, but the main reason was, that I was
unable to command the aid of clairvoyant power in its normal waking
condition, and to use trance clairvoyance I have been led to think unde¬
sirable, except in such cases as might prove of use in illness. I have
been so fortunate, however, as to obtain and commit to writing quite
enough on this important subject to furnish matter for thought and
further investigation.
It may be as well to start with a definition of crystallomancy, the art
or science by which, under certain peculiar conditions, the appearance
of ultramundane intelligences may be obtained to actual vision by persons
having a particular power in their waking and normal condition. These
visions are attainable by means of crystals, mirrors, and vessels of
| water. In many cases it has been found impossible to predicate what
special vision would present itself; but, in some rarer instances, these
I visions have proceeded in an orderly, cumulative series, exhibiting points
! of similarity with the visions obtained by other persons now actually
! living, or of whom we have authentic accounts.
SOME OF THE DIFFICULTIES OF SPIRITUALISM.
Perhaps I may be allowed to state at tbe outset that I am not desirous
| of offering any opinion, or pledging myself to any view of these pheno-
I mena at variance with established modes of thought. The results stand,
by themselves merely as matter of fact, and such philosophical views to
i which they may be presumed to lead are by no means insisted on by
me. Personally, I may entertain an unhesitating belief in them, but I in
! I no way desire to impose that faith on others. I certainly do not regard
' | Spiritualism, in its most extended application, as a social need; it does
| j not seem to me a necessity for the educated mind, for I fail to perceive
II that Spiritualism adds any very special weight to the arguments of the
I i philosopher on immortality; nor do I think any one moderately consi-
J | dering the works of Nature and Providence*, can be wanting in a faith
i j in a future life and world.
For, if we are to have for that want, termed religion, in our mental
> | organisations, nothing more satisfactory than a series of phantasmata,
i i then it is plain that Spiritualism is wholly inadequate for the satisfac-
II tion of that want. For in all our varied forms of spirit communion, we
| find it impossible to say what the exact results of the phenomena may
be. In this so-called spirit-world, the existence of which it is alike
unsafe to affirm or deny, we find the same amount of contradiction
and variety of opinion, as we do on this natural plane, of which our
senses furnish us the right to say, “ It is; ” but even of that, when we
regard the astounding facts brought out by science in our own times, we
can have no absolute certainty. There is existence, it is true, but
is it a dream state or a waking life? We cannot tell, and hence at the
back of the most obstinate incredulity, we find some species of faith
and hope. In the course of centuries these emotions have fashioned
themselves creeds, and in these, under the protection of the Divine
Creator of All, we abide and have our being.
In Spiritualism, as unfolded by the various methods employed at the
present day with the utmost good faith, we discover a multitude of
contradictory teachers, each claiming infallibility of a peculiar kind;
and each, as a rule, confirming the inquirer in his preconceived or
| hereditary notions. The Protestant, for instance, communicates with
! Protestant spirits, the Roman Catholic with Roman Catholic spirits,
j the Mahometan with Mahometan spirits, and the Deist, and even the
| Atheist, with Deists and Atheists. At first sight this appears most
! discouraging; but, in fact, if carefully regarded, it is one of the most
astounding evidences of the truth lying at the root of the matter. For,
I if persons in the present life congregate in congenial spheres, if their
convictions are adopted deliberately, so that the sensorium of the brain
is affected in a way that they cannot believe otherwise, it would appear
reasonable that the spiritual brain should in like manner be replete
with like ideas. And these beliefs in a spiritual condition would by
| analogy only be wrought upon by what would seem to us slow degrees,
i and become effaced, or modified, by the course of time, to which in
the spiritual world the term “ state” corresponds. Hence this variety of
opinion is easily comprehensible. But when we pass from the more
familiar forms of spiritual communications, we find opinions expressed,
| and doctrines enunciated alien in character, and singularly emphatic
I in enunciation, to those doctrines with which our educations, our tastes,
| our innate perceptions, have hitherto identified us.
Here all forms of known religions appear to be familiar, but no one of
j them elevated to an exclusive authority. This important consideration,
I which I would ask you kindly to bear in mind during the present dis-
i cussioh, brings me at once to my theme—to that peculiar world of which
I am expected to give some report.
CRYSTALLOMANCY, AND ITS ANTIQUITY.
i It is a fact that no crystallomancer will deny that a new and peculiar
world is opened to him when he enters upon a complete conference with
| spirits communicating by these means. And, what is more, not only is
it a new and peculiar world, but it is one of law, of order, of
hierarchical development, as distinct in itself as any state of society,
worldly or spiritual, can be—a world, moreover, not contradicting our
> i present world, but supplementing and completing all other investigations
of a like nature everywhere. It is also chronologically consistent, if I
* A paper read last Monday night before the British National Association of Spiritualists.
152
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 29, 1878.
may use the term. The crystal spirits of Dr. Dee, and those of the
unknown crystallomancer of the time of William III. in the British
Museum, say the same or similar things to those proclaimed by them in
the reign of George III. and Queen Victoria. Nor do these spirits
profess an undue superiority; they never declare themselves as final
beings beyond whom there is no advance. Either by indirect statements
or open assurance they proclaim that beyond their own sphere of action
there are higher forms of intellectual life. They profess themselves
bound by harmonic laws imposed by the Almighty Creator, and they
maintain an unbroken fealty towards that Creator. Nor is their spiritual
life spent solely in acts of adoration and reverence; it is replete with
active duties towards others of a benevolent and educative character.
They observe in their intercourse with mortals the ordinary conditions
of punctuality in meeting and gradual communication of knowledge.
They appear to have functions of the most varied character, and per¬
meating the whole of their nature is a spirit of consistency and quiet
belief, which finally loses itself in a brilliance of Divine glory, for which
we mortals are evidently unprepared.
As the apparently physical universe is infinite, so the spiritual universe
is unlimited; as punishment physically succeeds transgression on the
natural plane, so suffering and purification are the necessary corollary
on the spiritual plane. Everywhere the law of cause and effect is
perceived in action, and everywhere acting mercifully towards the
effacement of evil and the triumph of good.
* Crystallomancy was evidently known in times of great antiquity.
The Indian philosophers knew of it, and it formed a part of the
Druidical system. The Hellenic and Roman worlds were in the prac¬
tice of it, and the Egyptian priests held it among their most sacred
treasures. The orb of beryl is perpetuated as a symbol of authority
in our royal families to the present time in conjunction with the wand or
sceptre. Other stones, as the works of Pliny Theophrastus and many
others show, were regarded as possessing peculiar qualities, but the
beryl or rock crystal, both in the oriental and occidental worlds, was
considered emphatically royal; the Hebrews regarded it as being dedi¬
cated to the royal sign or constellation, Leo the Lion. That specific
properties reside in particular kinds of stones, plants, and minerals has
been long suspected, and that they have peculiar effects upon particular
sensitives, both male and female, has been proved by Mr. John Enmore
Jones, of Peckham, in a work on “Man,” published some twenty years
ago, and that work I would earnestly recommend to your attention. But
the beryl seems to have ever maintained its place as the most important
of these natural objects. In the Louvre at Paris is preserved one, if
not more, of these crystal orbs belonging to Chilperic, one of the ancient
kings of France, and it in all respects resembles those in use at the
present day for the evocation of spirits. But as insignia of authority
do not, as history proves, appertain solely to one class of beings, we find
it adopted by the magicians of the middle ages, by the physicians,
astrologers, and occult students. Thus Paracelsus is said to have im¬
prisoned within a beryl a familiar spirit who aided him in his cures, and
Dr. Dee may have consulted his beryl in questions appertaining to
health, although this would seem doubtful, inasmuch as his conferences
with spirits scarcely ever turn upon subjects in any way to be con¬
strued into medical questions. Such was Dee’s faith in astrology that
he preferred to consult the stars and the earth with its supply of simples
for this purpose, reserving the crystal and the famous black stone for
more exalted investigations. There is no time on the present occasion
for an elaborate account of these proceedings, but they may be easily
read in the folio published by Meric Casaubon. It is not to be wondered
at that the volume should be rare in these days of insincere belief, but
there can be little doubt that Dr. Dee fully believed and guided his con¬
duct in great measure by the counsels of the crystal spirits. Although
he may seem a dim figure to us now, he was no inconsiderable personage
in the days of Queen Elizabeth. It is not to be contested that the
number of inquirers into this form of occult science was at no time
very large ; but' a chain of continuity appears to have been preserved
and like methods adopted from the times of Dr. Dee to our own. There
.exist eight volumes of manuscript in the British Museum in which the
same spirits evoked by Dee appear, and allowing for the change in
human language, their expressions are very similar, their doctrines
identical, and the same may be said of Dr. Rudd’s series of Rosicrucian
reveries. This chain of continuity has remained intact to the present
time, and by like methods those who prefer this mode of spirit com¬
munion obtain their various results. This naturally conducts me to the
main purport of this night’s paper, viz., my own personal experience
and the views which I have been led to entertain.
HOME EXPERIMENTS IN CRYSTALLOMANCY.
It is necessary to premise that I came to the subject in perhaps the
best state of mind for the purpose, that of perfect ignorance. I had
never been troubled about any state of future existence, but such train¬
ing as I had received had filled me with a certainty, not to this moment
shaken, in the power of my mysterious Creator to provide according to
'wise laws of moral compensation, for my future well-being in an ultra¬
mundane condition. I have never, therefore, felt any fear of death ; to
me it has ever been a corollary of life, but if, at any time, low spirits
led me to the consideration of the legality of suicide, I rose strong
enough to repel them. For, I argued to myself, that same mysterious
Author of my life is able to direct in His own way the course of the
being He has ordered to be created. Suicide, therefore, would be a per¬
version of His laws, not to be entertained by a thinking creature. About
this time, by a strange accident, commencing in a bookbinder’s shop, I
became acquainted with a gentleman who was in possession of this
secret of communication, and, my interest once excited, I eagerly
availed myself of his experience. A new world of beauty opened upon
me as I proceeded. Here, in the inmost heart of an English home, was
revealed to me in an orderly and reasonable manner, according to
methods of respectable authenticity, the secrets of that world to come
to which so many eagerly look forward. Need I say that, to a young
and ardent mind, the opportunity would not be neglected ? Imagine a
quiet room with ordinary furniture, the fact that a gentleman for whom
I have ever entertained the highest respect and regard should draw
towards him some writing materials, and equally quietly a young lady
of about nineteen should seat herself in a darkened corner of the room,
with her eyes fixed upon a silvered mirror—a few words emphatically
and sincerely spoken constituted the whole of the magical charm—when
! the seeress would presently say:—The mirror is clouded, now there is
light—now a form appears—describing it accurately—it is so and so.
Then a gentle question would be put in a tone indicating respect and
I affection, desiring to know what should be the order of proceeding. Then
below the figure in the mirror would appear a series of words and sen-
I tences (at once written down), prescribing the question of the night, and
| in this manner for perhaps two hours at a time, a conversation would
i take place upon subjects as sacred as any in the experience of any
form of religionists. Or, it might be, another spirit would appear and
the course of inquiry be altered, the freest communication intellectually
prevailing. This was not a question under which worldly wealth could
] be won. The seeress had not any idea of monetary advantage, nor could
i it be otherwise than a sincere service of love, for there was this
j peculiarity about it, that the seeress, a young lady of average education,
i had a marked antipathy to these mirror evenings—they affected her
health, gave headaches, and many troubles. One of these evenings is
sufficient to describe the general characteristics of them all. I will,
i therefore, add to this only, that I found myself free to prepare the
I abstrusest questions at my leisure, to be solved on these occasions,
} which soon assumed a periodical character, and the result has been
j many volumes of. closely written manuscript upon almost every sub-
I ject of mental interest. I have had more than 25,000 answers from the
j seeress. Nay, more than this, I found others possessing the same faculty
of spiritual sight, but in different degrees, and I was able to avail
myself of their assistance. The only sadness about this state of things
was, however, that I, like my esteemed instructor, could not myself see.
It was, however, promised that, after a time, this obstacle should dis¬
appear, and it certainly, in a partial degree, has done so, yet not in the
way I anticipated. But as these experiences form no part of what I
have to speak of to-night, I will omit them.
CAPTAIN R. F. BURTON’S DISTANT ADVENTURES SEEN IN A CRYSTAL.
By means of this crystal mirror and water vessel system, views of
distant places on the earth, with events actually transpiring, have been
obtained, future events have been accurately predicted, books of many
pages have been actually dictated, and serious dangers averted. In
illustration of this, I may mention a curious circumstance, authenticated
by a well-known and eminently truthful man, I mean the famous Captain
Richard F. Burton. While h6 was away on his memorable expedition
to Mecca, a friend of his desired to have some knowledge of his where¬
abouts, and had recourse to a mirror, with the excellent seeress I have
named above. A vision presented itself of an Oriental character, with
a camp-fire burning, and the seeress recognised Captain Burton in an
Eastern dress, but smoking ; to him entered another Oriental, to whom
he offered the pipe, which the new-comer refused' angrily, and apparently
an altercation ensued, finally settled by a show of appeal to pistols,
after which the vision faded. On the return of Captain Burton this
vision that had taken place in England was shown to him, and he
immediately wrote an attestation that it was absolutely true, and was,
in fact, almost the only squabble he had had during his journey, stating
that he had been travelling near to a Wahabee tribe, a sect holding
tobacco in abhorrence, whereas those with himself smoked. They
therefore pitched their camps as far as possible from each other at all
times; but being once in a very narrow wadi, or valley, the confines of
the two camps touched, and the scene witnessed in the box mirror, as it
was called, actually took place as described. I am uncertain, however,
whether the time corresponded, but I have little doubt that the fact
could be ascertained. In my own case future events have been predicted.
In the year 1858 I was informed by a seeress, in my own mirror, that I
was observed in a large hall on a platform addressing a crowded audience,
and that the year was 1865. This event took place as predicted, for in
that year, as our friend Dr. Carter Blake knows, I very unexpectedly
attended the British Association at Birmingham, and spoke in the hall
of the Midland Institute. As to books being dictated, the same
gentleman of whom I spoke as first teaching me anything on this
peculiar phase of the subject, had several essays dictated through
crystals and mirrors, one of them being very lengthy, and of remarkable
philosophic interest. Dangers have been averted. I have on many
occasions been warned not to do certain things I was about to do, and
by this warning have been several times spared troubles, in which others
were involved in consequence of their ignorance. I was informed by
the mirror spirits of events concerning my own life in conjunction with
my astrological figure, which have been strictly, although quite un¬
expectedly, verified, and their evolution to a great extent is still in the
future. I think, therefore, that I have a right, having thus “ tried the
spirits,” to testify to the truth of what they have communicated. It is
not, however, undesirable to maintain a watchful guard over what is
thus learnt. People are too often apt to overlook many failures when
they exaggerate one or two fortunate hits. It is not a proper spirit to
surrender belief upon a surprising series of coincidences ; out of twenty-
five hits in 500 we may have 475 utter failures. But there is un¬
questionably an element not to be neglected, and that is the entirely
negative interest the seers have in the circumstances, and I had this
illustrated on one occasion in a very remarkable way. A lady whom I
have known all my life, and to whom crystal and mirror were alike
unknown, visited our house, and without telling her what the virtues of
the crystal were, I was desirous of learning whether she could see. I
handed to her the crystal without remark, and asked what she thought
of it; could she see anything? “Why, yes, of course,” was the reply,
somewhat to my surprise ; “ how very pretty! ” “ What do you see ? ”
“ Why, you know what I see—a picture of a little child by a stream
163
March 29, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST.
throwing flowers into the water.” Turning it over she saw another
vision, and yet another. Finally, she handed it backhand I asked her
what she thought of it. *c Exceedingly pretty.” Then said I, “ I can’t
see it,” and an explanation followed, when she insisted upon it that it
was a transparent glass letter weight with pictures in it. X then
produced the mirror, and she saw a vision of the Champs Elysees at
Paris lighted up for a fete, and then she gradually perceived that the
phenomena, whatever they were, were unusual, and not in conformity
with known laws of vision.
On another occasion, accompanied by a person having spirit sight, I
went to the British Museum in search of Dee’s crystal. It was found
in an obscure case. The seer beheld what I at once perceived to he
a minute picture of the city of Prague in Bohemia, where Dee and
Kelly passed many years of their lives, this being unknown to the
seer.
In the course of my inquiries I was led to adopt certain methods in
recording such results as I obtained, and I have found it of great service.
Without waiting to criticise anything that might take place I at
once committed it to writing, leaving any intellectual consideration of
the matter thus obtained until a future time, when it would be possible
to compare passage with passage, and correct by such comparison the
main issues of the subject, and this method I found most useful. I was
able by these means to classify the relative value of my experience and
obtain a better view of the whole results. I even submitted spiritual
communications obtained in one way to those obtained in another.
Where I found difficulties I was thus able to clear them away, and so
prevent erroneous ideas on the main issue creeping in. I regarded the
seers with whom I made my experiments as so many delicate human
instruments, myself as a mere recorder of what those instruments gave
me, and the question itself as one which was simply scientific and tenta¬
tive in character. Often from media of inferior calibre and comparative
insensitiveness, I obtained singular confirmations of matters only lightly
hinted at by superior seers to whom they appeared too trivial to notice.
I recommend this system of investigation to all those who desire to
arrive at truth.
THE CONSTITUTION OP THE SPIRIT WORLD AS SEEN IN CRYSTALS.
It was thus by very slow degrees I was able to build up from state¬
ments of the most varied character some definite idea of a systematic
nature of the constitution of the spirit world as seen through crystals
and other means at my disposal, and I now propose to give you a general
outline of what this proved to be.
Without entering into theology at all, but merely regarding this
immense realm of intellectual activity in a geographical sense, the
statements of the spirits may be thus summarised:—First, we have the
earth as a starting point, encompassed by several luminous spheres
having properties of interpermeability, that is, several conditions of
spirit-life occupying the same relative position to the earth as a globe,
partially Unconscious of their relative existence, as we perceive in the
relations of human society itself—as the poor are close to the rich—so
apparently dark states would interpermeate the lighter states; while
the higher powers could perceive the darker states, these latter could
have, and perhaps mercifully, no knowledge of the higher. Bound to
matter in the first instance would seem to be the lowest spirits, clinging,
because not purified, to that place in which they had originally been
born to existence. Next beyond these, but occupying no greater dis¬
tance, the elementary powers of nature, possessing their own indivi¬
duality, but yet only half human. Beyond this, the luminous earth
mirror of record, in which every deed, and thought, and emotion is
preserved, and in which our spiritual doubles, acting on us in dreams,
pass a semi-independent existence. To this section of spiritual life I
would earnestly commend the attention of observers. It is in this
sphere, or state, that predictions concerning human events are often
obtained, and thence from the semi-independent condition of its inhabi¬
tants—our own fluidic emanations—do we obtain many singular
spiritual facts. It is not until we reach a superior condition of being
that we are actually in conference with spirit, or spirits, and the higher
our aspirations the farther we penetrate spiritually into the ultra¬
mundane world. It is not until we have—to use the bold figure of
Lord Lytton—until we have surmounted the presence of the Dweller on
the Threshold, and divested ourselves of a supernatural and super¬
stitious dread, that we can enter upon unrestrained and familiar converse
with these beings, some of whom claim never to have been embodied,
but all of whom possess organisations, knowledge, duties, and faculties
vastly different and superior to our own. Some of these purified spirits
exhibit little or no knowledge of the physical conditions of human nature,
and hence have little sympathy with our physical needs. Others seem
as if appointed to labour on our behalf, with us, sincerely and heartily,
if we accept their aid, but never in such a manner as to constrain our
free will. They warn, but do not prevent. Nor do they attach any
paramount importance to any special creeds; they know that, in the
future life, errors in judgment will be corrected by a better acquaintance
with Spiritual existence. But in no sense are they apologists for
sin, for vice, for any acts capable of palliation; nor is it likely they
should be, knowing, as they do, that error of whatever degree causes
its own punishment in an exact ratio: for* eternal punishment they
reject. Time and distance, in our sense of the word, are comparatively
unknown to them, and of this 1 had a remarkable instance. A certain
spirit, formerly a Moorish inhabitant of Spain, but one who had made
hieroglyphics his study, professed his willingness to translate some of
the Egyptian and Assyrian inscriptions: it had been a study he had
continued in his present state of existence. He made an appointment
to take copies of these inscriptions, and took them by a species of
Spiritual photography. And he subsequently appointed another time to
appear and give the interpretations. I was present at the first meeting,
but, by some inadvertence, was not called to the meeting when he was
to re-appear. He did so, however, at the time named, walked up
apparently close to the seer in the mirror, looked all round the
room, did not see me there, and went away, taking his rolls with him
which he had brought for the purpose. Now, the time was nothing to
him, but the conditions of the persons expected to be present was every¬
thing. It was, therefore, a matter of finding a state in which he could
properly communicate : he never appeared again. Then, as to distance or
proximity. I have been frequently told that the spirits are actually no
nearer, but their superior spiritual power allows them to pierce the
intervening space, and overcome the force of grosser matter. This
brings me at once to another point. The crystal possesses in itself an
inherent power of making to sensitives a window in the spirit-world—of
which the mirror is only a larger kind, and of which the water vessel is
a variant. But while the crystal possesses it naturally, the mirror and
vessel of water, being of human construction, require forms to expressly
consecrate them to the purpose. These vary in their nature, and it
would be impolitic this evening to explain them in a general paper; it
is enough to say that they are efficient when confided to genuine
searchers into the subject.
A RECORD OF A VISION IN A MIRROR.
The mirror spirits reside within their own spheres, and have their
own occupation and a classification intelligible to themselves, and they
rank in proportion to their essential purity. The following vision seen
in September, 1857, during the time the Indian mutiny was going on,
and reported in the seer’s exact words, will give some idea of the
spiritual world and its inhabitants. When the spirit was called no
vision at first appeared, but presently the mirror went thick, and
reading came :—“ S  was unaware previously of being called.
Therefore, unless you see him as he is now engaged, you cannot see him
before half-past nine.” I replied, “ As S   cannot appear, will he
oblige us with the astrological work he has promised ? ” It was re¬
sponded, “ You can either see him as he is now at this time engaged, or
at the time appointed.” Answer was made that we would see him, as
he was at that time engaged, and would invoke him at half-past nine.
It was then ten minutes to nine. Presently the seer said: The mirror’s
veiled; now it’s quite clear. There are little spots of light flying
about like sparks—a perfect shower, in all directions; the air seems full
of them ; they seem to fill a large space, and in the distance they are so
fine, it seems like a mass of fire. In the middle of the distance there’s
a bright red cross; it looks so curious standing out amongst the bright
yellow; it’s a solid cross about six or eight inches long and an inch
thick, a bright crimson. Now, there are shadows of forms going back¬
wards and forwards, and under them a large black hole ; they are spirits
with wings, but very shadowy; they keep round the hole, but do not
cross it. On the other side of the black hole, opposite to them, there is
a clear white cross, lying downwards ; it looks like glass, and there are
such swarms of figures coming up out of the black hole—quite a stream ;
they seem to scramble up arid lay hold of this red cross to get up by,
and as each lays hold of it, it appears to shake backwards and forwards.
Each one lays hold, and directly it shakes he lets go, and passes on ;
they do not touch the cross till they are half up ; they are all black, as
though a black veil or mist was over them, and the spirits are standing
on the other side of the white cross. In the first row there are four or
five just opposite to me; they have no wings, and are dressed in
colours, some quite black, all dark; one is in a blue dress, one in a
brown, fastened round in a girdle. The next row behind are fairer,
and got more white about them, and something white about their heads,
and in the next row behind them there’s a number of little curly
headed children amongst them; and behind them there stand two
very fair and white, their arms bare, more statue-like, and more spirits
behind them with wings, and stones in their hair, white dresses and
coloured robes over them, and a cloud round them. Above them there
are three figures, like shadows, robes, faces, and wings, but only a.
faint shadow ; then at the very top of the mirror there’s a round ball
of light, and from that comes a ray of light, that falls over the black
hole at the foot.
The ray of light is just the size of the black hole; the ray seems
redder than light. On this side [a]—the right—there is a kind of
wheel going round, only of light, but something the shape of a wheel,
and the people who come up go to the right side of the wheel; the ray
does not reach the people or the black hole. S (the spirit) stands
on the other side of the golden wheel, looking through at the people on
this side, and the first mortal that has come up through the black hole
he is looking at and speaking to him. The wheel has seven spokes, and
at the end of each is a little cross. S  seems addressing this
person. Now S turns to the first row, and appears speaking to
them; he moves his hand to them, and points to the person. The
others still keep thronging up through the hole, and all the spirits in
colours seem to answer at once, as though they were singing. Now
S turns to the mortal again. Now he has turned the wheel one
spoke further round, and the person goes in on this side black, and
comes out a thick white mist on the other side ; when he comes out as
a white mist he changes again into the shape of a body. Now there is
a kind of greyness comes over them ; there is another going through
the same spoke. The grey seems to hang like a mist over them ; they
look down, and stand as if they were waiting; there’s another gone
through, that’s three, and they’ve all changed and got the grey on. There
is another form. Still S talks to the first row before he turns each
spoke round. There is another fire, and the spirit in the brown robe
with a bright face has gone out of sight with the fire all round him.
Now, the crowd coming up through the black hole is opening, and
there is something in white coming up the middle of the hole. It
looks like a square board with a heap of something on it, and a white
cloth all over it very large. It goes up to the wheel, and the people
keep scrambling up again; it stops this side of the wheel and falla
down like dust, but the shape of it continues. Every particle has fallen
away like dust to the bottom, but a mist remains which is going through
the wheel, and the first row of spirits opens, and it goes through them,.
154
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 29, 1878.
and at the next row it seems to slacken its pace. Now, there rises like
heads above the board, like a white cloud rising in heads, and it is now
forming into heads with hair and curls. Now the shoulders seem rising ;
there are five coming up out of it; they are all rising in human shape,
and white drapery. The heads are the most distinct, and below it only
like a cloud. The board appears as a cloud now, and all the rows of
spirits have opened to let them through when they get up to the last.
They are just such figures as the shadowy ones ; the five get up round
one of them, and then they all go away. S keeps letting the others
through all the while; there are five more of them gone away with
one of the spirits in colours; the clear white cross seems as though
water was round it, and the red cross looks like a flame-coloured light
all round it. Now there is another white cloud coming up the hole,
larger than the other; it is doing just the same as the other, except
when it gets through the wheel it stops close to the clear white cross,
lying down, and begins to change as soon as it gets over the cross, and
all the rows of spirits open for them ; it has got up to the shadowy
spirit at the top, and one of them is going up with this five. Now it
is going. It is all gone, 9.25 p.m.
RULES OX SPIRIT INTERCOURSE.
It will thus be seen that the mirror spirits reside within their own
sphere, having a classification intelligible to themselves, and rank in
proportion to their essential purity. When speaking with them of
religious subjects, they uniformly display a large-hearted catholicity, to
which mundane creeds are alien—but they do not condemn any one for
his creed, nor seek by specious arguments to alter or vary it. I will
now, by way of explanation, read one of these spirit messages, which
has some bearing upon what I have just said, and in doing so I beg that
it be remembered that the seeress was a quite uneducated girl. I was
speaking to the spirit in reference to the rules to be observed in con¬
nection with spirit intercourse, when he replied as follows:—
“Lay down as an unalterable law, rules of good. Upon these form
your conscience, and then use that mediumship only for such actions,
such communications, and such information as can be approved of by
that, and agrees with the other. Such a law of conscience will tell you
that you may not turn the gift of a good power to the gaining of wealth,
for that cause is desecrated, the effects of which can be bought and sold;
that as Almighty God gives His blessing unto all men, a free gift, without
distinction or choice, So you, in the receipt of such a gift, must give it
unto others as He has given it unto you. Thus the first duty is per¬
formed. Again, in giving the benefit of your gift to others, you would
so temper it as to carry out the plans your reason teaches you to think
was the intention of the donor—use it only for the purposes that you
believe they who give it would use it were they in your place—use it
with loving-kindness and charity to men—not with harshness and
severity. Do not give it to others without mature thought and careful
consideration, and you may do harm by a too quick application of what
would afterwards prove a remedy for suffering. And, again, in all your
intercourse with them, be they spirits of the highest order, maintain,
calmly and resolutely, reason on its firm throne of the mind—be not
overpowered or influenced by their assertions, other than through your
intellect, and judge them by the criterion of consistency, for consistency
is truth.”—[Spirit World, Vol. III., pp. 90—1, No. 603. Friday, Sept.
11, 1857'.)
Up to the spirit of these recommendations, during the whole of my
experience of Spiritualism, I have acted, and shall continue to act. It
maybe thought, however, by many of my hearers that I have not
handled this subject in a sufficiently philosophical spirit—that I have
displayed too much faith and too little criticism. Yet I have not
transgressed the wise remark of La Place in what I have brought
forward. All this spirit world may be nothing more than a mere
figment of the imagination; but, as La Place says, “ we are so far
from kn’owing all the agents of nature, and their different modes of
action, that it would be a proof of small wisdom to deny phenomena
simply because they are inexplicable in the present state of our
knowledge.” And La Place is undoubtedly right. When we are yet
so sadly ignorant even as to the very commonest problems of psychology
—the most ordinary causes of forms of insanity—it would be prema¬
ture to d priori deny the truth of what is thus shown us by the aid
of credible persons within our own sphere in a healthy condition of
brain, and possessing all ordinary faculties—persons of different ranks,
disposition, education, and general bent of mind. Were it possible
for a number of persons unknown to each other to be engaged in a
common plot for no possible advantage to themselves, or, rather, on
the contrary, the highest amount of disadvantage, then I would fear¬
lessly stigmatise them as cunning persons, not to be credited even on
oath; but when I discover persons of the most diverse nature in a
general unconscious agreement, I am forced to accept the general truth
of what they say. And when to this is added the universal fact exhi¬
bited by each and all of them of a dread and dislike of the supernatural
—as it is very iufelicitously termed—the main basis becomes clearer.
TELEGRAPHY BY VISIONS IN CRYSTALS.
This is perhaps best illustrated by the phenomena connected with
the water vessel. I became acquainted, by letter only, with a family,
in which there was certainly one seeress, perhaps more. At their
request, I consecrated two water vessels, one in my own possession
and one in theirs, and we commenced our investigations. One of these
water vessels was filled with pure water at Oxford, Liverpool, or
wherever they might be, the other was filled by myself in Londorft
We sat at the same hour, and the visions called for by me in London
were seen hundreds of miles away by this family, and reported by
post. Here there could be no complicity, no plot, and no ulterior
object, save that of attaining truth. Had the experiments fallen out
otherwise, no one would have been to blame, nor could any one have
been disappointed.
One other fact, and I have done, for yon must be weary of the
same subject placed in so many different ways. I have for several
years been engaged in some matters of moment, the nature of which
I can hardly explain, nor is it to the purpose, but a singular confir¬
mation of the verity of these things was unexpectedly furnished
within the last few weeks. Being troubled about these matters, I
inquired whether any clue could be given me, and was immedisftely
referred to my diaries, of which I have a great number; indeed, I
have received over 25,000 communications from the spirit world. This
was wholly unexpected, as I never dreamt my diaries could have con¬
tained anything about them. On looking for the special vision, I
found one referring to the present year, 1878, but seen by a casual
seer, a visitor at our house, as long ago as 1865, and the circumstances
exactly fitted the appearance of the persons engaged in the matter.
Here there could be no complicity, for the medium in the case was
unconscious of the very existence of all the other persons, and the
vision was so little esteemed by myself that I had absolutely forgotten
all about it; and yet the circumstances fitted like a glove to things
actually now going on.
Under these circumstances, I have only to surrender the further
consideration of the subject into your hands, and entreat of you, on
reference to the facts I have attempted to talk about, to use the spirit’s
phrase in the spirit’s meaning—“ Judge of them by the criterion of
consistency, for consistency is truth.”
^oetrg.
DE ’SPERIENCE OB DE REB’REND QUAKO STRONG.
Swing dat gate wide, ’Pestle Peter,
Ring de big bell, beat de gong.
Saints an’ martyrs don will see dair
Brudder Reb’rend Quake Strong.
Sound dat bugle, Angel Gabriel,
Tell de elders loud an’ long,
“ Clair out dem high seats oh Heaben,
Here comes Reb’rend Quako Strong.”
Turn de guard out, Ginrel Michael,
Arms present de line along,
Let de band play “ Conkerin’ Hero,’*
For de Reb’rend Quako Strong.
Den let Moses bring de crown, an’
Palms an’ weddin’ gown along;
Wid percession to de landin’,
Here’s de Reb’rend Quako Strong.
Tune yer harp strings tight King David,
Sing yer good “ Old Hundred ” song.
Let de seraphs dance wid cymbals
’Roun’ de Reb’rend Quako Strong.
Joseph, march down wid yer bredderen,
Tribes an’ banners musterin’ strong— .
Speech ob welcome from ole Abr’am ;
Answer, Reb’rend Quako Strong.
Angels, hear me yell Hosanner !
Hear my dulcem sperritool song;
Halleluyer, I’m a cornin’,
I’m de Reb’rend Quako Strong.
Make dat white robe rudder spacious,
An’ de waist-belt ’stronery long,
’Cause ’twill take much room in glory
For de Reb’rend Quako Sti’ong.
What! No one to de landin’ ?
’Peers like suffin nudder’s wrong ;
Guess I’ll gib dat sleepy Peter
Fits—from Reb’rend Quako Strong.
How am dis ? De gates all fastened,
Out ob all de shinin’ frong,
Not a mulatto cherub even
Greets de Reb’rend Quako Strong!
What a narrer little gateway !
My ! Dat gate am hard to move !
“ Who am dat?” says ’Postle Peter,
From de parapet above.
Uncle Peter, don’t you know me—
Me a shinin’ light so long ?
Why, de berry niggers call me
Good old Reb’rend Quako Strong.
Dunno me, de shoutin’ preacher,
Reg’lar hull hog Wesleyan, too—
Whar in de woods you bin a loafin’?
Some ole rooster’s bodderin’ you,
I reckon. Why, I’ve convarted
Hunduds o’ darkies in a song—
Dunno me, nor yet my masser,
I’m de Reb’rend Quako Strong.
Hark to dat ar curus roarin’,
Far away, but rollin’ nigher;
See de drefful dragon flyin’,
Head like night, an’ mouf ob fire ;
’Tis de berry king ob debbels,
An’ he ’m rushin’ right along.
Oh, dear Peter, please to open
To class-leader Quako Strong,
Ole Nick’s cornin’, I can feel it
Gettin’ warmer all about;
Oh, my good, kind, Kurnul Peter,
Let me in, I’m all too stout
To go ’long wid Major Satan
Into dat warm climate, ’mong
Fire an’ brimstone. Hear me knockin’.
Ole church-member, Quako Strong,
VIarch 29, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
155
Dat loud noise am cornin’ nearer—
Drefful smell like powder-smoke ;
Nudder screech. Good Hebben, help me !
Lor’ forgib dis poor ole moke.
Allers wuz so berry holy,
Singin’ an’ prayin’ extry long.
Now de debbel’s goin’ to cotch me,
Poor old nigger, Quako Strong.
Hi! Dat gate swing back a little ;
Mighty squeezin’ to get froo,
Ole Apollyon howlin’ louder,
Eberyting aroun’ am blue.
Bang 1 de gate goes, an, old Belzebub,
Bunch ob wool upon his prong,
Goes ’long home widout de soul ob
Mis’abul sinner name ob Strong.
St. Louis Globe Democrat.
(Eomsponuence.
[Great freedom it given to corretpondente, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed j
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
topics should be kept by the writers.}
REMARKABLE PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA IN FRANCE. j
1 | 1
Sir,—There is an interesting case of spirit-seeing at the time of J
death—a fact so frequent, and now so commonly acknowledged—in I
the JRevue Spirits of this month, March, 1878, which is made especially j
striking by the spirit presenting himself to his brother, when sur- J j
rounded by witnesses; moreover, a telegram arrived bringing an j j
account of the death, quite unexpectedly, to the same witnesses. The | j i
event was first published in the Liberte Colonials of September last, j j
and was taken from a letter sent, apparently from Paris, to M. Martinet, i j |
at Martinique. i j
The company of the Theatre-Lyrique were rehearsing the opera of |
the CIS d' Or for the last time previous to a first presentation the j j
same evening. L6on Achard, the tenor, was to play the chief I |
character. 1 \ j
“ Suddenly Achard turned pale, and placed his hand before his j j
eyes, crying out, ‘ My brother ! My brother ! ’
“ The other actors pressed round him. ‘ What is the matter ? ’ said j j
Vizentini, the manager. (!
“Achard looked fixedly at him, and said, ‘We cannot play s j
to-night.’ |
“ ‘ You are mad,’ said the manager, ‘ explain yourself.’ (I
“ * My brother is dead,’ said the tenor. > i
“ His brother was manager of the Conservatoire at Dijon ; every one j
knew Charles Achard. He was supposed to be in the best health. (j
Nevertheless, the singer continued to hold his hand before his eyes.
“ ‘ I see him ! ’ he said ; ‘ it is he indeed ! He is dead ! ’ I
“ While attempts were being made to bring order to the rehearsal, (
a telegram arrived for L6on Achard. It announced the sudden death
of Charles Achard, manager of the Conservatoire at Dijon. j
“ That is the reason why placards were posted up to say there would j
be no performance that evening, on account of indisposition.” j
Here is a curious case of obsession, apparently by partisan spirits, j
taken from the same number of the Revue:— j j
“M. J , at Douai, has been subject to a singular obsession, i
which was discontinued for some time, but reappeared in December, i
1877. This gentleman, the head of a circle of Spiritualists, develops j
many mediums of every kind. He also forms other circles in the j
neighbourhood, and moralises with suffering spirits. Consequently, j
spirits of a certain class have conceived extraordinary ill-will towards
him, of which you may judge. [
“ M. J obtains, through his mediums, psychic sight, somnam- j
bulism, visions in tumblers of water, the early traits of materialisation, j (
direct writing, and musical mediumship. But this circle, so united in i}
intention, became suddenly troubled by a case of apparent obsession. 11 j
M. J  stopped all this, aided by M. Dewerpe, a mesmeriser of |(i
Herculean power, who came to his assistance to drive off this bad j j!
influence ; the entranced seeing medium then beheld a regular battle ! | i
between the protecting spirits and the obsessors. These last took them- j (j
selves off apparently. But M. J  was soon after afflicted with a
strange trial. He had been subject to it before. It was this. In order j |
to cut great strips of leather used in his business, M. J  has a j
block of wood (w» hois) on which he sets (repasse) his cutting instru- i (
ments. Since last December he has constantly found a white powder j |
thrown over this bois, which powder notches his instruments. He, his j j
relations, his friends, wipe the bois, but the white powder is always i j
there, setting M. J at defiance. It is of no use to change the bois,
the phenomenon reappears.
“ M. J  can no longer cut his leather; his work is bad; he j
suffei’s great material loss, and his health declines visibly. When a j !
bfttck spot appears on the bois covered with powder, it is a good sign, j (i
and M. J  gets stronger; if the spots become larger it indicates ! |
that his health is returning; if .they disappear, he. can no longer set I j
his tools, and he knows that the fight is beginning again among the i j
invisibles. 1 j
“ This battle, he says, will end in his deliverance; for, having i i
already loosened from their bonds several obsessing spirits by his j (|
prayers, these last have now received the mission to aid him for the I j
future, and to deliver him from his distress by virtue of the law of I j
justice, which enacts that we must return that which we have taken, (j
and are punished by the way we have sinned. ^ ! j
“However this may be, our courageous pioneer is certain that they H
are working for his deliverance on high. Spirit circles should join in j jj
good wishes for the same purpose, for M. J—— is now but the ni
shadow of what he1) was, and this characteristic phenomenon has
occurred twice in the same year, to one of the most intelligent and
energetic of men. This is no fiction—it is a reality.”
It would be quite worth while, when they have scraped off this
white powder, to send some of it to be analysed. Also, it would be
interesting to know what sort of colouring produces these black spots,
which, according to their enlargement, produce corresponding comfort
in the obsessed. One wonders, too, if the powder is fabricated by
spirits, or if it be a known product brought there by the invisibles.
There are probably many white powders which, if strewed on a hone,
would be detrimental to the sharpening of steel.
The fact of mesmerism having been brought to the relief of Spirit¬
ualism ; that the full force of a powerful biologist’s own spirit and will
power should have been made use of for assisting one class of invisible
beings against another class of invisible beings ; that the exorcism of
the occultist and the psychologist should have been brought to bear,
in order to help the prayers of Spiritualists, is a most interesting
feature of the above tale of obsession. Scrutator.
SPIRIT FORCE AND SPIRIT MANUFACTURES.
Sir,—Your journal of the 22nd contains three narratives which, if
accepted as genuine, illustrate the power of spirit force in a marvellous
manner.
1st. We have some nine materialised forms resembling human
beings, produced in the presence of Mrs. Pickering and a circle of
fourteen investigators.
2nd. We have a narrative of Indian magic, in which, under a large
basket (a dark cabinet), a female dog is converted into a dog with
seven puppies in one minute. These are transformed into a goat, this
into a living pig, then into a dead pig with its throat cut, and, lastly,
this dead pig is transformed into a living pig.
With regard to the nine human-shaped figures produced, we read
that the faces were devoid of emotion, and like wax masks.
It will not be asserted that the goat, dogs, and pigs, were identities,
and, if so, what evidence is there that the aforesaid nine human-shaped
figures were other than simulacra or spiritual automata?
Their bodies and heads moved, but they had no speculation in their
eyes, nor did they reveal the secrets of the prison-house.
3rd. The above facts illustrate the formation and transformation of
matter, and the narrative in the same journal describing how Eglinton
was transported bodily from one closed chamber into another is but the
transformation of matter in another direction.
The passage of matter through matter has always been to me the
most profoundly interesting fact in Spiritualism, because it not only
proves to me that “solid matter” is soluble by spirit force, but it
indicates the way whereby low and evil forms may, or might, be
transformed into good and perfect forms.
How the base lead may be transformed into the “royal gold,” and
the base, diseased, and ugly man or woman, into the noble and angelic
being.
These passages of matter through matter have all hitherto taken
place in the dark, or outside human vision ; but the materialised forms
now being produced in our midst are made, dissolved, and re-made, in
the light.
Conceive one of these forms dissolved in our presence and re-formed,
the doors being shut, in an adjoining chamber.
Here, I conceive, we have an instance of matter passing through
matter, but invisible, because dissolved; just as hot steam is invisible
water.
Carry this idea one step further, and let these complex operations of
dissolution and reformation, which now occupy, say five minutes,
occur in an instant of time, and we have the rationale of the entire act.
Spirit being eternal, and existing in the eternal sphere, is inde¬
pendent of time, being outside and above the conventional arrange¬
ments connected with the rotation of our globe.
Hence, pneumatologically considered, there is no inconsistency in
these astounding operations. George Wyld, M.D.
Great Cumberland-place, Hyde Park, London, March '25th, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM IN HULL.
Sir,—I beg to correct an error, which appeared in my letter in your
last issue, though not of much importance; the orator I referred to
was not Dr. Seaton, but Dr. Sexton.
The efforts of Spiritualists here to inaugurate a series of Sunday
services has met with an unexpected degree of success. The lectures
have been well received, and some spiritual literature distributed and
thankfully received.
Next Sunday evening, at 6.30 p.m., it is expected that Mr. Bland
will deliver a lecture on the “ Practical value of Spiritualism.”
On the Sunday following, Mr. Wallace, the medium, will occupy
the platform, and give, for the first time in Hull in public, a trance
address. It is to be hoped that the old veteran, who has borne the
heat and burthen of the day, will have good audiences, and that the
Spiritualists of Hull will not fail to minister to his temporal wants
while he is instrumental in ministering to their spiritual needs.
Perhaps it may not be out of place for me to mention that which I
know to be true. Mr. Wallace has devoted himself to the cause, and
has proved himself capable of doing a noble and useful work as a
missionary, and in that capacity should live by his labours, as a
labourer is worthy of his hire. But what is the fact ? Mrs. Wallace is
exceedingly ill; one child lies on the brink of the grave, and the
whole family is in a state of destitution. This is not as it should be,
and it is high time for those who avail themselves of Mr. Wallace’s
gift to be told that something more is necessary for the support of
himself (and those who look to him as their bread-winner) than a
cup of tea and a place to lay his head. Spiritualists in Hull,
156
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Marcs 29, 1878,
and elsewhere, I hope, will be good enough to notice what I am
driving at.
A great number of seances are held in this town, and the persons
who hold them belong principally to the Unitarian and Swedenborgian
churches.
There is a fine field for work here, and now that the Spiritualists
have put their hand to the public plough, they will never draw back ;
earnestness and unity will accomplish the rest. Perhaps the public of
Hull will soon have an opportunity of hearing the trance utterances
of J. J. Morse, or the eloquence of Dr. J. M. Peebles.
J. Coates.
Hull, March 25th.  
MESMERISM.
Sir,—May I ask you to allow me to give a few more hints on
mesmerism, which may be useful to your readers 1
Mesmerism was first promulgated by Anton Mesmer, in 1776. Since
his time, so convinced of its truth are the medical practitioners of
Prance and Germany, that no less than four hundred works have been
published on the subject. I possess works in four volumes, published
in 1816, relating cures effected by mesmerism.
Mesmerism is the vital agent itself. God has endowed man with the
power of curing his fellow-creatures by imparting some of his own
existence, without injury to himself.
A good mesmerist requires a patience which is above all trial. He
should have an unshaken firmness—a devotedness which charity alone
is capable of inspiring. There are two mesmeric processes. The moral
process is the most essential r it consists of concentration and will.
The soul is strong only by concentrating its faculties. The first con¬
dition for mesmerising is a strong will, the second is confidence, the
third is benevolence.
The action of mesmerism is, in its principle, spiritual; but it is
physical in its effects. The strength of will does not come entirely
from the head, but chiefly from the heart. The mesmeric fluid is only
healing when the heart is pure and strong in faith.
The mesmeric process which I have employed is simple. Before
mesmerising I isolate myself as much as possible. I neither see nor
hear anything that is passing around me. 1 make a mental prayer that
God may bless my efforts. My thoughts once fixed, I mesmerise.
In conclusion, may I bring to the knowledge of the readers of TAe
Spiritualist that I am always ready to attend the poor without any
charge. Adolphe Didier.
LITERARY DOGMATISM.
Sir,—"Who will say that theology enjoys a monopoly of dogmatism?
The following is the last item in the Table-Talk of Samuel Rogers:—
%l When I was at Paris, I went to Alexis, and desired him to describe to
me my house in St. James’s-place. On my word he astonished me!
He described most exactly the peculiarities of the staircase ; said that
not far from the window in the drawing-room there was a picture of a
man in armour (the painting by Giorgione), &c., &c.
“ Colonel Gurwood, shortly before his death, assured me that he was
reminded by Alexis of some circumstances which had happened to him
in Spain, and which he could not conceive how any human being, except
himself, should know. Still, I cannot believe in clairvoyance, because
the thing is impossible.'*
That, of course, is unanswerable. Credo quia Impossibilb.
MISREPRESENTATIONS OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The Christian World is opening its correspondence columns to the
subject of Spiritualism, and any good which might be done thereby is
largely neutralised by a letter in that journal last week, from the pen
of Mr. William Howitt, who, after censuring numerous Spiritualists all
over the world, tells the readers —
Then the so-called British National Association of Spiritualists was, some
years ago, established, and it set out with a programme in which every species
of spiritual belief was to be accepted—of course those of Johanna Southcote,
Joe Smith, and the like—but Christianity was expressly banned and excluded.
The members of this self-elected Association were, in fact, to renounce
Christianity, but to embrace as fellows the holders of every other species of
spiritual credence, however absurd or degrading.
The statement that the Association ever called, or dreamt of calling
upon its members to renounce Christianity, is utterly without founda¬
tion ; it has no root in fact. According to the ordinary usages of
society, Mr. Howitt will probably see the moral obligation he is under
to withdraw the statement in the Christian World, and to send an
apology to the National Association of Spiritualists.
The founders of the Association wisely did not wish theological
differences—which, are always profitless and bitter—to be brought up
within the organisation. A few orthodox persons would nevertheless
persist in putting a clause into the programme which they deemed to be
in favour of Christianity; then they began to differ about it among
themselves, and it was struck out—common sense gaining the day.
The less orthodox Spiritualists merely looked on good - temperedly,
and did nothing, being anxious to promote peace. Since then every¬
thing has gone on tolerably harmoniously.
Mr. Howitt then says :—
A vigorous onslaught on this programme by myself caused the associated
Spiritualists to haul down their colours in a hurry, and to expunge this par¬
ticular article of their proclamation. The fact of their utter hostility to
Christianity, nevertheless, remains, and is every day more publicly mani¬
fested.
The National Association of Spiritualists never did anything in
consequence of the onslaughts of Mr. Howitt. He went out of his way
to try to kill the young Association, by writing aggressive articles about
it, which were not noticed by, and had no influence upon, the National
) j Association. In fact, they were lost to view in the pages of the late
| j | Spiritual Magazine, and did not promote the longevity of that journal.
151 They brought down upon Mr. Howitt the condemnation of the Baroness
m Von Vay, in one of the most well-directed and Christian-like articles
1 j! ever printed in these pages.
j 11 He then goes on to tell the readers of the Christian World that The
i Spiritualist newspaper is the organ of the National Association—which
I (I it is not. As a voluntary act, it deprecates the utterances of Mr. Howitt.
] j j In like manner, as a voluntary act, it, on principle, gives a general kind
j) i of support to the National Association, because the Association has raised
I (* the standard of friendly union and orderly self-government among
;) j Spiritualists; and, truly, the general peace and happiness, and useful
|)! work going on within its ranks, present a welcome contrast to much
| (| which may be observed outside, Mr. Howitt’s writings included,
i S i An extract is appended from one of Mr. Howitt’s earlier articles; it
J11 may be left to bring its own verdict from people of gentleness and
! (] spiritual culture :—
; r I They have no right to give their fellow Spiritualists, by implication—that
j (i is, by assuming the national name and style—the disgraceful appellation of
] (j heathens and infidels. “ Their primary and fundamental object,” said one of
j) i their speakers, “ is to form a bond of union between all Spiritualists of every
j /1 shade and opinion.” I, for one, declare that I will have nothing to do with
] f I any such a Noah’s Ark. There can be no real bond of union betwixt good and
! (i evil, wisdom and folly, between clean and unclean—it is not in nature. Let
I) I Spiritualists of every shade go their own ways. However they may try at it,
|)! there can be no permanent union' betwixt such incongruous elements. I,
i (j myself, have but one way, and that is the way of truth, righteousness, and
j (i sound sense, as they are taught in Jesus Christ. I am h man, and because I
i (j am a man I am not obliged to share the opinions, or the deeds, or the
i) j absurdities of men of all shades of opinion. With the murderer, the adulterer,
|) j the swindler, the blasphemer, or the drunkard, I have nothing to do.
I)! The National Association of Spiritualists has never done anything to
i) I invite the numerous intolerant attacks of Mr. William Howitt, and has
] 11 never taken any notice of them. When it has been reviled it has
|) | reviled not again, and from the first has not been guilty of an unkind
| / j word or ungenerous act to anybody. It is a standing and useful refu-
j (I tation of Dr. Carpenter’s assertion that Spiritualists are constantly
|) | quarrelling among themselves, and it displays an amount of religious
j 11 culture which cannot be discovered in the acts of many who assert their
| (| personal claims to special sanctity.
i; j Acts of aggression, when very violent, do a further injury to the
I (| movement by necessitating a defence, whereby the peaceably inclined
|)| are drawn into contention. Such is the case in this instance, where
I [ I the telling of many thousands of readers that the National Association
111 of Spiritualists once called upon its members to renounce Christianity,
| (| was too large a misrepresentation to be allowed to pass in silence. Its
j) | author has thus forced the wasting of space which might have been
|) | used for other purposes.
i) | On Wednesday next, the monthly soirde of the National Association
( of Spiritualists will be held at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
|) I London. The Rev. Thos. Colley will read a paper on “ Spiritual
I) | Phenomena in Relation to the Doctrine of Correspondences.” It is
[ (I expected that Dr. Peebles will be also present. As Dr. Peebles con-
i)! templates leaving England for the United States about the 10th of April,
i) j this will probably be the last time that the members of the National
j) j Association will have the opportunity of meeting him at their rooms,
i) ] and of bidding him farewell. Dr. Peebles’s parting words will be of
|) j interest to all. A good attendance may, therefore, be expected.
!) | Are Animals Immortal ?—Many good and learned men have believed
i c j and taught that animals have an immortality, as well as men. Among
|) | them were Theodore Parker, John Wesley, Jeremy Taylor, Coleridge,
| ) i Lamartine, Agassiz, and many others less known to fame. That they
j r ] have thoughts, language, intelligence, affection and gratitude, as well
j as the emotions of anger, revenge, and remorse, is certain. Where then
j j is the boundary line between mind and soul in animals whose natures
j (i are so much like those of man ? And what reason have we to assert
| )! that they are not, like him, immortal ? Is it at all unreasonable to
; j i suppose that in that other life, to which this is but the portal through
| j j which all animated nature must pass, we shall meet and welcome the
j) | animals we have loved here ; our old familiar friends, the companions
II j of our childhood and later years—Bobbin, Brindle, Tray, and Tabby—
11 i and the sweet-voiced canary, too, which beguiled with his melodious notes
j (i many a weary hour away ? And why not ? Can we imagine a place
i; | so dreary, unhome-like, and desolate as a land entirely bereft of animal
: c | life ? where no faithful dog will welcome his master’s step ; no song of
i) | birds ripple the ambient waves of that upper air; no brave steed wait to
| (| bear his master ovef the rolling hills of the beautiful “ Summer-land ”;
( no white flocks deck the green hillside, and no lowing kine browse
|) | beneath the spreading branches of the evergreen trees of that peaceful
i) j landscape ? Ah, no ! Let us rather trust that in that better land these
| (| faithful friends may be compensated for the wrongs they have suffered
|) i here, and that the pen of poet and philanthropist no longer be called
]) | upon to chronicle the barbarous deeds of men upon them.—Mission
i t i Mirror, San Francisco.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
H. M. (Bath) claims that he did not attack Madame Blavatsky in his letters,
but the anonymous “ brahmanan-guru!” He says :—“ I cannot say that I
see anything in Madame Blavatsky’s book to make one doubt her acquain¬
tance with India and its natives—far otherwise. I can see nothing out of
the way, even in the noon-day rest by the side of a tank, especially when it
is known that she is a native of Oeylon, although of European descent. I
have done the same sort of thing in the old days myself, although India
never saw me until I went out as a young cadet more than forty years ago.
India is an immense country; and what may seem strange in one part is
not so in another,”
March 29, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST-
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing tlie English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of 'W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two. volumes,
price 10s. Ocl.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting '.and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. fid.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. •
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This hook contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
BLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
. and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com-
iilete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
jord LytUcton. 2 Yols.. crown 8vo., 15s.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were
surrounded The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who.would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the nudiumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, hut these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by OoL H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiratn. n-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fiS; „
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III. ,, .
The Reformer. „ IY. „ .
The Thinker. „ Y. .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health ....
flarmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
•Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
s. d.
15 0
7 6
7 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
* di
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 21 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Tnn. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of ConfUcius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind); or. A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... IS 6
The Koran: commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . 10 6
PSYCHISCBE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mdtze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fondh par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBO RN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince's Salon, and the Duke's Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. fid.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high’
class Instrumental Music,
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Othee
Obseeyees in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messes. Oolby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Peess.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been t6 identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of b. priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which Ms
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from aogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion dow rnon-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careftt
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge tha
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and Qiose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Haebison, 38, Geeat Russell Stbebt, London, W.q.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 firr Is., post free, or 500for Is. tod., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOE DISTBTBUTION AT FUBLIO MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism afid
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
delnged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 68., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price fid., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is, The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7.30.
TI>RIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
JD tabled in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James's-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.    
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the! first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ’’ will be posted for one year, pos
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lod.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 29, 1878,
iv
A NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE¬
MATUREDEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
LORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
EflO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-OIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING R EVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly jnto public notice
as ENO'S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is ,
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
•hall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
gpecifle which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.'’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
TUNO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes:—
JL <« pinCe i have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
ENO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
■Tl “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.’’
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OOGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons Hie blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.   
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent iorm.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ITNO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
L products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus ot itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retresliing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house- j
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
-WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
» » THE HEART.cansed by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the nrst
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my.tfriends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please.— I am,
dear sir, yeurs respectfully, “W. B. Beckett ”
Aug. 80, 1877—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. —• Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—End’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
ScU Agent for Farw-PHARMACIE DE BERAL. I RUE DE
LA PAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON. , '
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
’ Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
L The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor 3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man —6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book In a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we And verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fall to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and In some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to he photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientiflc mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller, ,
“An odd hut most entertaining assortment of qnalnt and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all Ill-natured."
From Nature.
“ Scientiflc men and matters are In one or two cases alluded to,
and the Imprint bears that the work Is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
« The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientiflc, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine,
“ How Hadji Al Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientiflc literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientiflc follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there Is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book.,.* How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author It Is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
- From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“The finest thing in the book is * How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the typo
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good In their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of Its
author’s mind. It Is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appejred in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
an i ivhich created such a furore at the time.” [N.B. An
irtje member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, isoound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will: and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State ot Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duratibn of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case qf it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Tr<nsference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Bioiogy, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental: Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot ajl Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S ii ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyanee—Predictions of various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—^Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in ‘ the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance. Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tiled by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—^Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-MesmerDm in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin: Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVICurative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at .the
Holhorn Printing Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St, George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Are
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
