Registered as a Newspaper,
kiitlj Spxntealism m ^xmt §nfam1
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : u, Ave Maria-Iane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule*
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille, LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Cor-so. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: g6, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 3ig, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: gi8, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 307.—(Vol. xiil—No. 2.)
LONDON: FRIDAY, JULY 12, 1878.
<Eontents<
Ghostly Plays ... ...   ... ... ...  13
The-Fire Test in India 13
Zschokke on Divination. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.SV... 13
Indian Jugglery Extraordinary   ... 14
The Psychological Influence of Material Objects upon Sensi¬
tives...     .'     15
The Influence of the Affections upon Intercourse with the
Spirit World 18
The British National Association of Spiritualists: —
Meeting of the Council 19
Dr. Mackenzie and Spiritualism. By W. Stainton-Moses,
M,A      20
Poetry:—The Phantom. By Alice Worthington—A Song
in Season 21
Correspondence:—Dark and Light Seances—The Ring
Test—Spiritual Phenomena in Scotland—Treatment of
Guests in the House of a Birmingham Minister—A
Private Seance
Mediumship and Morality.—No. II 
The Blood of Martyrs the Seed of the Church..,
Mrs. Pickering’s Seances   ...   ...
Answers to Correspondents ...   ..,
Paragraphs:—Pianoforte Recital, 14 ; John Roberts and the
Lost Cattle, 17 ; Annual Meeting of the Derby Philo¬
sophical Society, 21; Rifts in the Veil    ...
24
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IK 1869.
rriHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Slake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies. D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling.
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. XOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 18s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Calendar.
JULY.
Friday, 5th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
Williams, Medium.
•Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Sdcmce Committee, at 5.30 pm.
Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 pm.
Friday, 19th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 pm.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 pm.
•House and Offices Committee, at 5 pm.
Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
General Purposes Committee, at
5.30 pm.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
at 6.30 pm.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Tuesday, 9th.-
Friday, 12th.-
Wednesday, 21th,
Friday, 26th.
OFFICES—6, Loughboeodoh-road-noeth, Beixton;
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., dso., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. II. July. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—The Two Schools of Thought. By St. George Stock.
II.—James Hinton. By William White.
III. —Clairvoyance and Psychography. By Epes Sargent.
IV. —The Abate of San Gandolfo. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Remarkable Psychological Experiences. By A. E.
Newton.
VI.—^Psychology of the Bible. By J. W. Farquhar.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. II.—Issoudun. By Rev. H.
N. Grimley.
VIII.—Thirtieth Anniversary of Modem Spiritualism. By
Thomas Shorter.
Leaves from My Life—An Innocent Sinner—Buddhism—
Miss Martineau Defended—More Glimpses of the World
Unseen — Concerning Everlasting Punishment — Possible
Planetary Influences—An Intelligent Tree—Psychography—
The Truthseeker — Views of our Heavenly Home—The
Master’s Field—Marguerite Marie Alacoque.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.Q.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by EPES SARGENT. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modem Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the SocittA
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London,
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, Wl
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
 Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London. 
Mediumship • its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation-for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes.. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.  
SCARCE AND VALUABLE BOOKS.
(Second hand.)
The Spiritual Magazine, Vols I. to XIV. (A.d. 1860 to 1873),
£7 10s.
The Celestial Telegraph (Cahagnet), 12s.
From Matter to Spirit (Mrs. De Morgan), 10s. 
SHEFFIELD CUTLERY, &c.
POCKET KNIVES (every kind) for LADIES or GENTS,
Is., 2s., and 3s. each, post free.
The Grange Electro-Plate and Novelty Works,
BRAOKLEY STREET, SHEFFIELD.
Agents wanted.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co:
Show Rooms 3, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, <fec., <fcc.
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O)
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
 FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT,. Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in- the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine.
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 12, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President,
Alex. Caider, Esq., I, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blacfcburn. Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, I. Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerdld, Mrs , 19, Cambridse-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Biixton, S.W.
Gregory,Mrs. Makdoncall.Sl, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood. Mrs.. 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
mad, South Hampstead, N.tV'.
Wjld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council,
Adsbead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , Lanaley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill. ■
Binney, F A., 24, St Ann’s-square, Manchester-
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Vaie of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
OofBn, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Quedh’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dswe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H-, 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton. R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 8, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-erescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A., 14, Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W, 71, Richmond-road, Dalston.
Morse, J J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stain ton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbonld, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W, 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickarsgill, W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Stra vbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, WestBrompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30. Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M„ 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tmdwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Caider, Esq., 1, Hereford-
squarc, West Brpmpton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, IL, 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Caider, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors,
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq .
Honorary Secretary,
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United -Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland. -
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles,Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S. A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten. San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molst.raat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz H< ffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer- 1
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84, 1
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstahes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Ra nucl Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Lu.her Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Qo., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Mbntgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
MrsdHallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Bel grave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa,
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spil'itual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
  dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Customs. 
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C,  
"WOEKS BY THE COHITTESS OF CAITHNESS.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
<fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OE SOCIETY, Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russeil-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 London -Simpkin, Mabshall & Co.
Heaven opened ; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6<1., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts hound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
T~ HE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientifle subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
T>RIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
JUF tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above.   
MR. J. W. ELETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLAGE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
w. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
JB-li 9 engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequontly
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—■.
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from Ip.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS.M.G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Olairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon-plaee, Blooms ■
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
ATED from Hand-Writing, Phetos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Popstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandbe Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branen Office.
• Price 6s. 8d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Pakt I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—H. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VTI. The Burial of Webster. Vlfl.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore XXIX. The Mysteries- of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.,
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London: 38, Great Russell-street. W. H, Habrison.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE OROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
eubjeet. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
"O ARE OLD BOOKS on ALCHEMY,
JL\j MAGIO, and ASTROLOGY, for sale.—Send stamped
envelope to Mr. Halse, 40, Addison-road, Kensington, London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.C..
X of % of anSi uf ^jtttjtittalkm,
Ko. 307.—Volume Thirteen; Number Two.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 12th, 1878.
GHOSTLY PLAYS.
The drama exercises a potent, religious, and moral
influence on the mind, and the love of theatrical perfor¬
mances being deeply implanted in human nature, efforts to
forcibly uproot it will be made only by the superficial, and
will fail. There is much more religion and instruction in
the dramatic representation of a page from the historical
and dearly-bought experience of the English nation, than
there is in the well-intentioned sermon of an unintellectual
fifth-rate clergyman, who means well, but unlike his more
advanced brethren cannot understand the mental require¬
ments of the time, or of the divinely-appointed necessity for
amusement.
With the fundamental question of the utilisation of the
religious influence of the drama, and the recognition of the
good done to society by the best professional actors in
raising public thought from the everyday vulgarities of life
into the region of the ideal, it is not our intention now to
grapple. But the desire is rather to deal with a subsidiary
matter of detail, and to point out how good plays, with an
element of the supernatural in them, always gain a firm
hold upon public attention, and should be encouraged by
Spiritualists. Everybody loves a good ghost story or ghostly
play. The Corsican Brothers had once an almost unpre¬
cedented run at the Princess’s Theatre, and Rip Van Win hie
was equally successful at the Adelphi. Hamlet is perhaps
the most popular of Shakespeare’s plays. At the Lyceum
Theatre The Bells was largely the vehicle of establishing the
national fame of Henry Irving as an actor, and the authors
of the novel on which the play is founded were evidently
acquainted with psychological phenomena. The hero of
the piece hears bells which are audible to nobody else,
reminding him of an undetected murder he had com¬
mitted in striking down with an axe a rich German
Jew while driving a sledge. In his happiest moments, in
the midst of social and other enjoyments, these terrible
bells haunt the murderer by means of his clairaudient
faculty, and in visions of the night the incidents of the
assassination, the pale victim, the snowstorm, and the
mountain pass, reveal themselves again to his view.
In dreams he beholds the court of justice, with spectral
judges assembled, and himself as the criminal, but with
no clear evidence against him until the mesmerist is
summoned. Then is he thrown into a psychological sleep,
and forced to reveal the secrets of his heart. Thus this
story, which has been resuscitated at the Lyceum Theatre
until the end of the present season, is written by men with
real psychical knowledge, who set forth nothing outside the
realms of possibility, and in this respect The Bells differs
from the generality of plays of a u supernatural ” type,
although the bulk of the public are not aware of the fact.
The Bells deserves the fame it has gained, and the interest
of the observers is constantly strained to the highest pitch
by good authorship, good acting, and good scenery. At the
same theatre, another supernatural play, Vanderdecken, has
just proved a failure, although the scene-painter has carried
off considerable honours in connection therewith. The
authorship did not promote the success of the piece. Big-
marole, and long stilted speeches were put into the mouths of
the hero and heroine, tiring out the listeners ; there were no
flashes of comedy, as in Rip Van Winkle, to give relief; and
even if an average commonplace London audience could for
once have fully appreciated highly-cultured poetry, poetry of
that class was not there. When Vanderdecken, the hero,
agrees to fight another to the death, he does so from
essentially mean and selfish personal reasons, and not on
the high ground that neither kith, nor kin, nor the influences
of this world have the slightest right to intrude upon the
arena in which true love alone has regal claim to hold sway,
treading down all that is vulgar under its feet.
The drama is a powerful educator, and Spiritualism ought
to have the honour of being the chief religious movement
to recognise the- fact, and to side by side with the nobler
members of the theatrical profession help to crush out that
narrow Puritanism which seeks to ostracise the stage. True
religion is better enforced in a good play, than in a doctrinal
sermon on abstruse points by a weak-minded, well-inten¬
tioned man.
THE FIRE TEST IN INDIA.
The following paragraph from the Englishman's Overland
Mail (Calcutta), May 17th, 1878, contains an account of the
fire-test as presented among the Bhils, and it agrees closely
with an account of the same phenomenon forwarded to us
some months ago by Mrs. Showers, and published in The
Spiritualist.
“ The Bhils are much given to sorcery, practising* the art
during the Hulee and Dusoeera festivals. Mr. Horst, of
the Trigonometrical Survey saw them do strange things in
the village of Ali Bajpur. The Bhil priests were at first
unwilling to perform, saying that the time was unpropitious;
but their scruples were removed by the present of a rupee.
A hole four feet long, eighteen inches deep and eighteen
wide, was dug, and half filled with live coals. Then the
purjure, or priest, having muttered some incantations,
fanned the coals to a bright heat, sacrificed a fowl, waved a
bright sword over the fire, lastly told a Bhil sitting by to
walk through the fire, which he did without unpleasant con¬
sequences ; his feet were not even blistered. Mr. Horst
asked a Mahommedan chuprassee if he would walk through
the fire. ‘ Yes,’ said the man, ‘ because there is a charm on
the fire; it cannot hurt me.’ Upon this the chuprassee also
walked slowly through the fire and was unhurt.”
ZSCHOKKE ON DIVINATION.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S.
Mr. Epes Sargent cannot have been aware of the Eng¬
lish translation of the autobiography of Zschokke, and that
what he has translated is in the appendix to Mg Letters to
Miss Martineau. Zschokke is “ well known as an author,
statesman, philosopher, and reformer,” but best known as the
Swiss historian. He says (p. 143):—
“ In almost every Canton of Switzerland are found per¬
sons endowed with the mysterious natural gift of discovering
by a peculiar sensation the existence of subterranean waters,
metals, or fossils. I have known many of them, and often
put their marvellous talents to the proof. One of these was
the Abbot of the Convent of St. Urban, in the Canton of
Lucerne, a man of learning and science, and another a young
woman, who excelled all I have ever known. I carried her
and her companion with me through several districts un¬
known to her, but with the geological formation of which,
and the position of its salt and sweet waters, I was quite
familiar, and I never once found her deceived. The results
of the most careful observation have compelled me at length
to renounce the obstinate suspicion and incredulity I at first felt
on this subject, and have presented me a new phase of Nature,
although one still involved in enigmatical obscurity. To
detail circumstantially every experiment I made to satisfy
myself on the point would take up too much space at pre¬
sent ; but I think it right to mention some of the causes
which have led me occasionally to vary from others in my
views of nature and of God.”
Here one must pause and remember the remarkable insight
and power of thought-readingof theyoung woman’s conductor,
14
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 12, 1878.
which power might for the time have been transferred to the
girl; hence she might have been only reflecting his own
knowledge, somewhat as in the case of Goethe’s grandfather.
Had this solution occurred to Zschokke, doubtless he would
have been able to satisfy us upon it.
Boulogue-sur-Mer, France.
INDIAN JUGGLERY EXTRAORDINARY.
Me. E. Stanley Robertson, late of the Bengal Civil
Service, contributes to the capitally-conducted University
Magazine (Hurst and Blackett) an interesting article with
the above heading. He says :—
“ Early in January, 1877, I was stationed at Moradabad,
in Rohilkund. My wife was in England invalided, so instead
of living alone, I had adopted a common and convenient
Indian fashion and was i chumming ’ with a friend. My
chum was Mr. Carmichael-Smyth, acting Superintendent of
Police for the district. One day Mr. Smyth told me that he
expected to receive a visit from a native, an amateur conjuror,
who would perform some amusing tricks. It so happened
that on the same day we were waited on by a Parsee pedlar,
who wanted to sell us ivory and sandal wood carvings, and
such like knick-knacks, which are the usual stock-in-trade
of the Parsee travelling merchants. While we were chaffer¬
ing with this man the conjuror was announced, and was
shown into the common sitting-room. He was followed by
a crowd of our servants—for the native of every rank loves a
conjuror, and gazes on a conjuring performance with the
simple admiration of a child.
There was nothing very remarkable in the appearance or
dress of our conjuror. An elderly man, short and sparely
made, dressed in dingy white cotton, with very tight sleeves
to his robe and very tight legs to his drawers ; he might have
been a respectable servant out of place, but actually was a
small landowner, who had taken to conjuring for his amuse¬
ment.
11 When he entered the room he spread a white cloth upon
the floor and sat down upon it with his back to the wall, the
door of the room being on his right hand. His spectators
were disposed in the following fashion : Mr. Smyth sat on a
chair nearly in the middle of the room, I was sitting on a
sofa near the door, the Parsee merchant stood in the door¬
way about arm’s length from me. The servants stood about
in groups, the largest group being between the door and the
conjuror. As soon as he had settled himself he turned to the
Parsee and asked for the loan of a rupee. The pedlar at
first demurred a little, but, on being guaranteed against loss,
he produced the coin. He was going to put it into the
conjuror’s hand, but the latter refused, and told the Parsee
to hand it to Mr. Smyth’s bearer. The bearer took it, and,
at the request of the conjuror, looked at it, and declared it
to be really a rupee. The conjuror then told him to hand it
to his master. Mr. Smyth took it, and then followed this
dialogue : Conjuror—Are you sure that is a rupee? Smyth
—Yes. Conjuror—Close your hand on it, and hold it tight.
Now think of some country in Europe, but do not tell me
your thought (then the conjuror ran over the names of
several countries, such as France, Germany, Russia, Turkey,
and America—for the native of India is under the impression
that America is in Europe). After a moment’s pause Mr.
Smyth said he had thought of a country. 1 Then open your
hand,’ said the juggler; ‘ see what you have got, and tell
me if it is a coin of the country you thought of.’ It was a
five-franc piece,, and Mr. Smyth had thought of France.
He was going to hand the coin to the conjuror, but the latter
said, | No, pass it to the other sahib.’ Mr. Smyth accord¬
ingly put the five-franc piece into my hand ; I looked closely
at it, then shut my hand and thought of Russia. When I
opened it I found, not a Russian but a Turkish silver piece
about the size of the five-franc, or of our own crown piece.
This I handed to Mr. Smyth, and suggested that he should
name America, which he did, and found a Mexican dollar in
his hand. The coin, whatever it was, had never been in the
conjuror’s hand from the time the rupee was borrowed from
the Parsee merchant. Mr. Smyth and his bearer had both
of them closely examined the rupee, and Mr. Smyth and I
turned over several times the five-franc piece, the Turkish
coin, and the dollar; so the trick did not depend on a
I j! reversible coin. Indeed it could not, for the coin underwent
11! three changes, as has been seen.
II “The following evening Mr. Smyth and I were to dine at
|> | the mess of the 28th Native Infantry. We told some of our
\{ | friends in the regiment of the tricks our juggler had shown
! | us ; they asked us to invite the man to perform after dinner
j 1 in the mess drawing-room. He came accordingly, and began
j by showing some very commonplace, tricks. I wanted him
' to do the coin trick, but he made some excuse. I should
j mention that one of the officers was himself an amateur
! conjuror, and Mr. Smyth introduced him and our juggler to
j | each other as comrades in art magic. Possibly our juggler
i | may have been afraid that the captain would detect his
j method ; or perhaps he only felt nervous about repeating a
| | trick which must have depended very much on mere guess
! | work. Be that as it may, he would not perform the coin
5 trick at the mess. But he did another, almost equally
11 wonderful.
|> “As before, he was seated on a white cloth, which this
j time, I think, was a table-cloth, borrowed from the mess
I sergeant. He asked some one present to produce a rupee,
| and to lay it down at the remote edge of the cloth. The
j cloth being three or four yards in length, the conjuror could
| not have touched the coin without being seen, and, in fact,
did not touch it. He then asked for a signet ring. Several
were offered him, and he chose out one which had a large
oval seal, projecting well beyond the gold hoop on both
j sides. This ring he tossed and tumbled several times in
his hands, now throwing it into the air and catching it, then
shaking it between his clasped hands, all the time mumbling
half-articulate words in some Hindostanee patois. Then,
j setting the ring down on the cloth at about half-arm’s length
j j in front of him, he said, slowly and distinctly, in good Hin-
| dostanee, ‘ Ring, rise up and go to the rupee.’ The ring rose,
I with the seal uppermost, and, resting on the hoop, slowly,
| with a kind of dancing or jerking motion,- it passed over the
) I cloth until it came to where the rupee lay on the remote
| edge; then it lay down on the coin. The conjuror then said,
j I 1 Ring, lay hold of the rupee, and bring it to me.’ The
II projecting edge of the seal seemed to grapple the edge of the
III coin ; the ring and the rupee rose into a kind of wrestling
j | attitude, and, with the same dancing or jerking motion, the
| | two returned to within reach of the juggler’s hand.
| | “I have no theory of any kind to explain either of these
I | tricks. I should mention, however, that the juggler entirely
| disclaimed all supernatural power, and alleged that he per¬
formed his tricks by mere sleight of hand. It will be observed
that he had no preparation of his surroundings, no machinery,
and no confederate.”
The report of the first test siance given by Mr. Williams at the
residence of Miss Ottley, and Mr. Muuton’s speech at the Psycho¬
logical Society on slate-writing, have been reprinted from these pages
in the Harbinger of Light, Australia.
On Tuesday, last week, Mrs. Tebb gave a reception at Gloucester-
gate, Regent’s-park, London, to Spiritualistic and other friends, in
honour of Dr. and Mrs. Hare, of the United States. Dr. Hare is
| the son of the Professor Hare whose scientific researches were of so
| much value in the early days of Spiritualism in America.
Mr. Joseph Armitage, of Batley Carr, asks us to announce that
open air services in connection with Spiritualism will be held at
Howley Hall, Batley, on Sunday, July 21st, at 2.30 p.m. and 5.30 p.m.
Many Spiritualists from various towns in Yorkshire are expected to be
present, should the weather be fine.
Pianoforte Recital.—Miss Theobald, a pianist of great promise, from
the “ Harrow Music School,” gave a recital at 39, Baker-street, London,
on the 1st July. It is gratifying to all true lovers of progress to see that
our English artists are displaying, in their selections, a higher appre -
ciation of music of a sound school than they once did, and while aban¬
doning the fantasias of former years, do not neglect the fair claims of
our own composers. The programme on this occasion comprised a
judicious selection of classical music from Beethoven, Bach, Men¬
delssohn, Schubert, and Schumann, with a favourite rondeau by Stern-
dale Bennett. The sonatas of Beethoven (the Shakespeare of music,
whose texts are susceptible of endless interpretation) exact from
the player a fine feeling for rhythm, rapidity of finger, strength of
hand, and acute sensibility. These essential qualities Miss Theobald
exhibited in a marked degree, and in the still more intricate music of
Schubert and Schumann, with their wildness and recklessness of
manner, there was no “ scrambling through as by great tribulation,”
which the public are apt to look for in so young a performer, but refine¬
ment and vigour. Miss" Theobald terminated a performance of rare
excellence, for one so young, with the rondeau of Sterndale Bennett,
and won from her audience warm expressions of approval.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL INFLUENCE OF MATERIAL
OBJECTS UPON SENSITIVES.
f Professor William Denton, of Wellesley, Massachusetts,
conducted a large series of experiments on the influence of
shells, minerals, and relics upon psychic sensitives, and
gave the results in his unique book The Soul of Things,
from which the following is an extract:—
What light does psychometry shed on that still dark
page of H Nature’s infinite book of mystery”—conscious,
individual existence after death, and the condition of man
in that next state of being ? Our researches have been
confined almost exclusively to the material side of life; and
yet, on several occasions, spiritual existences, apart from
ordinary psychometric forms, have spontaneously made
their appearance.
About seven years ago I took Sherman into a dark closet,
held a magnet up, and requested him to tell me what
he saw. Instead of seeing light streaming from the poles
of the magnet, as I supposed he would do, he saw a man;
and, on describing him, I found the description to agree
exactly with that of my father, whom he had never seen.
He at the same time said that he could hear him speak; and
repeated to me, as from him, what appeared to be very
characteristic expressions.- At the same time he accu¬
rately described my mother, whom he had likewise never
seen.
Some days afterward, when examining a shabti from
Thebes, he said—
“ I see two men : one has no shoes on; and the other has
something tied to the bottom of his feet. They don’t wear
much clothing. They are homely-looking, and have very j
short and stiff beards. . I see two old women who have
more clothing than the men : they look sober, and they are
a sober people.
“ I see one man ready to die: he lies on a flat place, j
and faintly groans. Nobody appears to notice him. A
man is running up to him. He is dead. The man com- j
mences to mourn over him, and kind of pray.
“ I see a man’s spirit standing still over him. It looks j
better than the dying man. It stands up, and looks a great I
deal better than the man. It mumbles something that I |
cannot understand; seems to talk with me. It points |
upward with a finger. He was walking, and fell over and j
died. The spirit is a little higher now—about as tall as I !
am above him. It keeps rising and rising, but slowly, j
Now it darts away quickly, and I cannot see it. It went
like a flash.*
“ He has come back now, and three with him. He is J
showing them his body. He talks more distinctly than he j
did. He points to his body. They are dressed much better !
than when alive. He seems glad he is dead. They have
white, thin clothes on. They are all talking away. I see !
numbers now not far from there: they seem talking to j
him. One slowly vanished : I saw his feet last. He went |
like snow before a hot fire, or lead in a furnace. The man
that died is looking all round for him, and the others are j
laughing at him. They seem to have a jolly time. Why,
they can go anywhere.
“ I can see a mischievous spirit; he could make a hand,
a large one. They seem to be looking at me and touching j
me.f
“ The one that vanished has returned.
“ I can see through the spirits. I can touch and feel j
that mischievous one. I cannot see through him. He is j
almost like a man in the body4
“ Men are digging a hole for that dead man’s body : it
is easy to dig. There is no wind: all is still. They dig I
the hole about five feet deep.
i§ These spirits did not look like those I saw the other
night ” (my father and mother): 1 they look like stones
compared with polished diamonds.”
* Several independent clairvoyants have described the separation of the spirit from the i
body in a very similar manner. • v • ■" : j. . j
t I cannot account for such statements as these. I give them, because to leave them out ■
would be to deal unfairly with the reader, and unjustly with the facts,
t Some spirits appear to him, as they have to many spiritual seers, very much coarser ;
than others ; and he says that physical manifestations can be made by such spirits much l
more readily than by the more refined; which is, I think, very probable. ;
Some years afterward, I asked him to find a dying man
and watch carefully the process of the separation of the
spirit from the body.
“ I can see some one dying. There is something eating
his heart away. I see a hole on one side. People are
round him, and a minister is praying. He feels well. He
does not stir at all. His heart beats very slowly.
“ I see his heart commencing to be green. It beats
more slowly still. They question him; but he does not
answer. He is getting cold. His heart stops awhile, and
then begins again, but fainter every time. Now it only
beats once, and stops a long while. It does not beat at all
now; but he is not dead. I can see the blood circulating,
and his lungs going a little, and his pulse beating; but his
heart has completely stopped.
“ He was injured : a rib broke, and a piece stuck in his
heart. His eyes are almost half open.”
(“ Can you see his spirit ?”) “I do now. Why, he is
not dead yet! his spirit has not left his body. I see a great
many spirits, and he is looking up to them. He is rubbing
his eyes, just as if he was getting up in the morning, and
laughing at the minister, and trying to call his attention,
moving his hand before his face; but the minister does not
see him.
“ The doctor says, ‘ He is dead.’ When the spirit left it
struggled a little: why was that ? They don’t go off any¬
where. Many of them are round the house. Don’t he feel
nice now. He is dancing around quite lively. He is
talking about his mother that he has left: he is afraid she
will suffer. They tell him he is tied to his mother’s apron-
strings.
“ He is trying to shake hands with a man he knows; but
the man never notices him. He asks him if he has got the
floor done. He hardly seems to know that he has left the
body. He meets a number, and tries the same, and he is
feeling himself, and looking at his hands, and seems to
be surprised.
“He is clean: he left all the dirt behind. He has no
| nails nor hair; nor have any of them. Their heads
! look curious.*
“ I can see them turn over. This one says he dare not,
| and they laugh at him. I see them go to a library. They
I are looking at the books. One of them takes up a Bible,
I and puts it down again, and says, ‘I don’t want that book; ’
I and the rest say the same. The book don’t move; but
| he seems to hold it in his hand. Every thing must have
| a spirit.”
The question is often asked, Where are all these things
| that the psychometer sees ? The following, unexpectedly
| seen by Mrs. Denton, may shed some light upon this
i question. Can this be the realm into which the spirit is
i ushered at death ? or is there a still more interior realm,
i from which we receive echoes occasionally, but of which
| we still know so little ?
“ I am in a different realm from any I have ever before
| observed. I have to become positive, not only to outward
| surroundings, but even to the psychometric influences
| usually received, in order to distinguish this. Yet it
! appears like a realm of real, substantial existences,
! stretching back, and backward still, almost interminably,
| into both time and space.
“ I see forms—people, and the results of their labours;
| even the very efforts that produced the results. At first I
| thought it a species of mirage. It seemed like a picture of
| all that had ever been; yet now it seems to me that I could
! step from this planet upon that world (I can call it
! nothing else), and travel back through all the scenes that
[ have ever transpired in this.
“What a difference between that which we recognise as
i matter here and that which seems like matter there! In
! the one the elements are so coarse and so angular I wonder
i that we can endure it at all, much more that we can desire
| to continue our present relations to it; in the other all the
| elements are so refined, they are so free from those great,
! rough angularities which characterise the elements here,
I that I can but regard that as the real existence.
“ Something appears to me to be continually passing
| * This I do not understand.
July 12, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
15
16
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 12, 1878.
from our earth, and from all existences on its surface, only
to take on there the self-same form as that from which it
emanated here, as if every moment as it passed had borne
with it in eternal fixedness, not the record merely of our
thoughts and deeds, hut the actual, imperishable being,
quick with pulsing life, thinking the thought, and per¬
forming the deed, instead of passing away into utter
nothingness, that which is here and now for ever continuing,
an eternised there and then.
“ That portion of this realm which represents our earth
and her history, appears to occupy that portion of space
through which the earth has heretofore passed—her entire
pathway since she became an independent member of the
solar system. The form, however, as it looks to me now,
is not that of a sphere, but that of a broad belt, or zone,
endlessly waved, and gently curved in its general outline
as it stretches back into the eternities, where it eventually
appears divided, as if two streams which had for ages held
a separate course had met at last, and | mingled into one.’
“ This (realm appears to me to be illuminated by the
same light as that by which all things are psychometrically
seen.”
There appears to be a spiritual universe as ivell as a
material one—a universe which contains all that is, as well
as all that ever has been. There are the mountains that
were levelled before the Alps and the Andes left the ocean-
bed. All the rivers that ever ran are there—the pellucid
rills dancing down from the woody hills, and the muddy
streams that poured their turbid waters into lake and
ocean. There are the coral-polyps that built their stony
trees at the ocean-bottom, and the sea-lilies, whose stalks
“ bent like corn on the upland lea,” where our proudest
cities are to-day. All the flowers that ever bloomed, all
the birds that ever sang, every leaf that waved, and every
tiny insect that crawled upon it, are there, none too in¬
significant for preservation.
There are the Indian tribes which have roamed over the
face of this continent for ages, hunting buffalo on the
plains, spearing fish in the waters, and shooting with their
stone-pointed arrows the deer in the woods. The Aztecs
with their bloody religious orgies, the milder Toltecs that
preceded them, and formed settlements from Mexico to
Lake Superior, where they mined for copper more than a
thousand years before a Spaniard set foot upon the land—;
all are there—every tool they fabricated, every movement
they executed, every word that fell from their lips.
There are Egypt, and her millions who toiled for ages to
chisel out her labyrinthine tombs and rear her lofty pyra¬
mids ; all the hordes that Asia sent in wave after wave
from her central grassy plains to woody Europe, where
they dispossessed the dark-skinned occupants, and seized
their lands by the right of the strongest.
And what thus exists we can come into direct relation
with. We can see the mountains, and watch the rivers
run; dive to the bottom of the old Silurian oceans, and
mark their ancient tenants; roam with the old Indians,
sail in their canoes, and lie in their wigwams; hear the
thud of the stone hammer on the copper gad in ancient
mines of Superior; and know the absolute facts regarding
a past that seemed lost to us forever*
By psychometry there is scarcely anything but we can
learn, and by a process so much easier and more delightful
than our present cumbrous methods. A personal relic of
Shakespeare may in half an hour reveal more of him than
his biographers have been able to dig up by dint of the
severest application for two hundred years. A pebble from
the streets of Jerusalem is a library containing the records
cf the whole Jewish nation. I have known a little dust
from a copper knife reveal to a boy the story of the ancient
copper-mmers of Lake Superior to the very life, as far as
their story is known, and, I have no doubt—from its
harmony with itself, with the times, and with the state¬
ments of independent psychometers—true to the very letter
where it was otherwise unknown. The most secret deeds
of even the most ancient times lie in the light of the
brightest sunshine; and we have only to open our spiritual
eyes to discover them.
History is to be vastly enlarged, and made much more
reliable.—The histories of many nations of which we h#ve
11 never heard or dreamed are to be written, and the histories
11 of all others to be rewritten, that fact may take the place of
11 the fables that have been for so long palmed upon man-
j| kind. With a fragment from Egypt no larger than a pea,
( j we can learn more of the Pharaonic times than if all the
11 hieroglyphics that were ever made were in our possession,
11 and Champollion and Lepsius had bequeathed to us their
(| Egyptian lore. A piece of a Babylonish brick can call up
; | the ancient dwellers by the Euphrates, and make real as
11 the life of to-day that of Assyria four thousand years ago.
(| Psychometry must greatly enlarge the boundaries of every
j j science. Scientific men will at first look upon it with great
| distrust, if not with absolute disgust. All royal roads to
! learning have, say they, only proved by-paths for idlers to
j loiter in, without enabling them to gain one step toward
j any desirable station. Will psychometry prove any better?
| It certainly will; and a test, by any unprejudiced scientist,
| of some one of the multitude of sensitives that exist every-
I where, would soon satisfy even the most sceptical. I have
I tested its value in geology during many years. When the
| oil excitement broke out in Pennsylvania, Mrs. Denton
| psychometrized a specimen of Favosites Gothlandica con-
| taining petroleum in its cells, and saw at once its animal
| origin, and that it had no necessary connection with coal
| or carboniferous beds. This I announced in my lectures
| and through the papers as early as 1860, at a time when,
I as far as I could learn, all scientists who had written and
[ were writing upon the subject attributed its origin to
j vegetable matter, and generally taught its necessary con-
j nection with carboniferous beds, ideas now entirely
| exploded. Though petroleum is not yet regarded as the
11 product of coral-polyps, who stored it away in those cells
(I so frequently found supplied with it even now, opinions
11 with regard to its origin approach nearer and nearer to the
j * view of the psychometer as the matter becomes better
I understood. Hundreds of times I have had psychometers
! describe to me, from various specimens entirely unknown
to them, scenes in the earth’s past history in harmony
| with the formations to which the specimens belonged. The
| same animals and plants have been described over and over
] again for specimens, also unknown, that had been previously
j j seen by the (same persons with specimens from the same
| period. I have ha,d independent psychometers describe the
II same animals and plants with the same specimens, without
j knowing that they were the same, and, in some cases,
| animals previously entirely unknown ; and I am satisfied
that some psychometers can see as clearly the forms of
life that existed on this planet twenty million years ago as
| they can those that are on the globe to-day, and with much
( greater ease. . Persons who have not the slightest geo-
j logical knowledge can see and describe forms known only
| to the geologist; and children can solve some problems in
a few minutes that have occupied the attention of pro-
11 fessors for years.
11 In astronomy, psychometry will do as much as in
11 geology, or more. A first-class telescope cannot be had
| for less than ten thousand dollars. The labour of a work-
(I ing man’s lifetime would hardly buy one ; and, when
11 bought, he could but faintly discern the outlines of land
11 and water on a planet as distant as Mars. Tens of thou-
(| sands possess telescopes as much better than that as sun-
! shine is brighter than candle-light: all they need is a
11 knowledge of their own powers, and a little instruction in
(I the way to make use of them. With these telescopes they
) I can not only see the outlines of land and water, but they
i | can see water, rocks, plants, homes and people, and watch
11 those people as they follow their daily avocations. A tele-
j | scope only enables us to see; but the spiritual faculties
s i enable their possessors to hear, smell, taste, and feel, and
? I become, for the time being, almost inhabitants of the
> i planet they are examining. The secrets of our solar system
< I that scientists have sought so earnestly to penetrate are
/1 soon to be revealed ; and the process by which this is to
|! be accomplished is such a simple one it seems amazing that
(| we had not previously discovered it.
) | It must be imagined that all this can be done without close
| j investigation and careful discrimination. It is quite interest-
j | ing to watch the progress of a psychometer when getting at
Ji the history of a specimen which is familiar to the listener; to
July 12, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST. 17
see theory after theory thrown down as more and more j j
light is revealed by the psychometric vision. I have known ; |*
a psychometer to remain in the dark in reference to some | j
important point after even five or six examinations; and ! I
where the objects examined are snch that we cannot check j j
the statements of the psychometer, or only by the state- j(j
ments of other psychometers, the greatest caution is neces- j j
sary. For some examinations it is best that the psycho- j jf
meter should know nothing about the history desired from | j-
the specimen; but, in most cases, the more highly cul- | |
tured the psychometer is, the better and more reliable the j j j
results. Had Sherman the knowledge of comparative m
anatomy possessed by Owen of England, or of botany that j j
Gray of America has, his description would be almost j
infinitely superior to what they are now, and carry convic- !
tion, by their harmony with known facts, to the minds of j
the most sceptical capable of appreciating them. I j
The parties experimenting need a good knowledge of the j j
times to which the specimen is related, or they may think j j
a psychometer very wide of the mark when his descriptions j )j
are the very truth. Many statements given in this volume j j
I only discovered to be true after careful examinations of j j
authorities; and many things stated, that I regarded at the j j
time as extremely improbable, proved to be in complete j j
harmony with known facts, j j
Psychometry will enable us to appreciate a class of | j
people who have never yet had justice done to them. I j ;
refer to the sensitives, the “ odd people” of the world, who j I
see what no one else can discern; who dislike persons and | I
places, though their friends may be perfectly satisfied with I j
them, and can give no reason for their dislike. Some of j j
them feel uncomfortable in a railway carriage unless close !
to an open window, and are liable to faint in churches or j
crowded halls. Some cannot sleep well unless their heads j
are to the north; and copper or brass affects them un- j
pleasantly. Such people are endowed by nature with a |
more active condition of the spiritual faculties ; and they j
can, as a general thing, readily develop into good psycho- j
meters, who will, before long, fill a very prominent place |
in the intellectual advancement of the race. The lunatic j
asylum has imprisoned some of the best of these, in con- j
sequence of their extreme sensitiveness, who, by judicious j
treatment, might have been the noblest pioneers of science. |
Woman, who is by nature much more sensitive than j i
man, and who derives, often unwittingly, much knowledge 1 j
by the exercise of her spiritual faculties, is to be greatly j j
benefited by a knowledge of psychometry. Instead of | I
spending her time in writing or reading caricatures of ijj
human nature, such as are nineteen-twentieths of our ! I
popular novels, she can read and write true histories of j j
men and women, tracing the most noted characters of the j |
past, rapidly or slowly, as she pleases, through every event j j
of their lives, see and read the documents they have j j
written, and hear the very words that fell from their lips, j j
What fiction can equal such true stories as these? From | j
experiments that I have tried, I am satisfied that many of j M
them might go back from living individuals, step by step, j j
into the past, along the line of either parent, and give a j j
true description of their ancestors for thousands of years, j j
Indeed, I know of no limit to this power. ! j
The cultivation of the psychometric powers will aid j j
materially, I think, in weakening the influence of the j j
animal passions, and bringing the individual under the j j
control of the moral and spiritual faculties. The passions j |
may be gratified till the individual descends to the level of | >
them, and the brute is master of the man ; or the spiritual j I
may be cultivated till it holds the reins, and guides the j |
individual only where it is for his highest interest to travel. | |
The habitual exercise of these highest powers allies us to j
the pure and good, and helps to bring about that better j
time for humanity that we all desire so much to see. I
Psychometry will shed much light upon the spiritual !
nature of man. Every successful psychometric experiment ! (j
is a revelation of its wondrous powers.-. I sometimes listen I !
with breathless awe to the statements of psychometers as j I
they unravel the profoundest mysteries of Nature ; and I see j j
that we possess powers which we have hitherto considered I j
the exclusive property of the gods. If we could but realise | |
what wre are, we should scorn to be mean or impure. How lu
could we, the royal children of Nature, live unworthy of
our lineage and destiny ?
Our destiny is also indicated by it. It cannot be that we
should possess such powers as psychometry reveals, and yet
these be scarcely used by one in a thousand. Death cannot
extinguish these god-lit fires, which must bum and illumine
for a future commensurate with the past that psychometry
reveals. Here is a magnificent palace, on which architects
have been employed for an immense period in rearing, im¬
proving, and decorating. Here are rooms fit for angels, and
appliances innumerable for the comfort and happiness of
those who may be fortunate enough to dwell in them. Is
this built merely to be thrown down before one thousandth
part of it has been occupied or used? These spiritual
faculties that we possess are the evidences of the spiritual
realm for which they are fitted, and where life is to be per¬
petuated under more favourable conditions. What the
psychometer sees for an hour at a time, and with difficulty,
we may be able to observe at leisure, and draw instruction
from as a living volume. What a realm !—the heavens of
all ages for the astronomer; all the past of our planet,
and its myriad life-forms, for the geologist; all the facts of
man’s existence for the historian; all plants, from the
fucoids, that spread their arms on the tepid seas of the
primeval world, to the soaring cedars of California, for the
botanist; for the artist, all the giant mountains that the
rains of aeons have washed away—the bare, black precipices,
seamed with white veins, that frowned above the old
Devonian seas; and the canons, eaten by the mad streams
that went roaring through them, and then leaped into the
ocean with a more than Niagara fall; the smoking moun¬
tains, the flaming craters, and the spouting geysers, not of
this planet alone, but of all worlds in our system, and, it
may be, of all worlds in all systems; the ever-growing soul
finding unlimited time and an ever-expanding universe to
gratify its unceasing desire to be, to do, and to learn.
The Rev. John Tyerman, of Australia, is now lecturing on Spiritualism
in the United States.
J.ohn Roberts and the Lost Cattle.—In the Memoirs of John
Roberts, of Siddington, near Cirencester, one of the early Friends,
there is this account:—“ I had a poor neighbour who had a wife and
six children, and whom the chief of the parish permitted to keep six
or seven cows upon the waste, which were the principal support and
employment of the family, and prevented them from becoming charge¬
able. One very stormy night the cattle were left in the yard as usual,
but could not be found in the morning. The man and his sons sought
them to no purpose; and after they had been lost four days,his wife came
to me, wringing her hands, and in a great deal of grief cried, ‘ O Lord,
Mr. Roberts, we are undone! My husband and I must go a-begging
in our old age. We have lost all our cows. My husband and the boys
have been round the country, and can hear nothing of them. I’ll down
on my bare knees if you’ll stand our friend.’ I desired she would not
be in such an agony, and told her that she should not go down on her
knees to me; but I would gladly help them in what I could. ‘ I know,’
said she, ‘ you are a good man, and God will hear your prayers.’ ‘ I
desire thee,’ said I, ‘to be still and quiet; perhaps thy husband or
sons may hear of them to-day; if not let him provide himself with a
horse, and come to me tO-morrow morning, as soon as he will; and I
think, if it please God, to go with him to seek them.’ The woman
seemed transported with joy, crying, ‘ Then we shall have our cows
again.’ Her faith being so strong brought the greater exercise on me,
with strong cries to the Lord, that He would be pleased to make me
instrumental in His hand for the help of the poor family. In the
morning, early, comes the old man. ‘In the name of God,’ said he,
‘ which way shall we go to serfs them V I, being then deeply con¬
cerned in my mind, did not answer him till he had thrice repeated it,
and then said, before I was aware, f We will go to Malmesbury, and
in the horse fair we shall find them.’ When I had spoken these words,
I was troubled lest they should not prove true. On approaching the
town, I inquired of the first man we met, whether he had seen any
stray milch cows thereabouts. ‘ What manner of cattle are they,’ said
he. And, on the poor man describing their marks and numbers, he
told us there were some such standing quietly in the horse fair, and
that, thinking they belonged to the neighbourhood, he had not taken
particular notice of them. When we came to the place, the old man
found them to be his, and suffered his transports of joy to rise so high
that I was quite ashamed of his carriage; for he fell a hallooing, and
threw up his montier cap in the air several times, till he had raised
the neighbours out of their beds to see what was the matter. ‘ Oh ! ’
said he, ‘I had lost my cows four or five days ago, and thought I should
never see them again ; but this worthy neighbour told me this morning,
by his own fireside, nine miles off, that here I should find them, and here
I have them ! ’ I desired the poor old man to be quiet and take his cows,
and be thankful—as, indeed, I was, being reverently bowed in my spirit
before the Lord, in that he was pleased to put words of truth in my
mouth. And the man drove bis cattle home, to the great joy of his
family.”
THE SPIRITUALIST
is
July 12, 1878.
THE INFLUENCE OF THE AFFECTIONS UPON INTER- j !
COURSE WITH THE SPIRIT WORLD. j j
Those humble minds who seek their satisfaction and j j
happiness in the conscientious performance of their daily I
duties in the spirit of service, and are not blessed or cursed |
with a critical spirit of inquiry into history and science, can j
well afford to be indifferent to the phenomena of Modern I
Spiritualism, and the evidence they afford of intelligence j
and power hitherto unimagined, and by narrow minds con- jj
sidered non-existent. Yet even to these gentle children of j
God the evidences presented by Modern Spiritualism of the |
presence and continued interest of the dear departed ones ] !
must be, one would think, consolatory. j I
The anecdote told by Mr. Home of his interview with j |
the then Queen of Holland, in 1858, may be quoted as an j j
instance ot this. After long and fruitless seances with her I n
Majesty for six or seven evenings, she took him to the play- j jj
room of the little one she had lost. I give what follows in j j
Mr. Home’s words:—“ Taking a light, the Queen had passed j jj
through two rooms, and was about to unlock the door of a j j
third, when I, as it were involuntarily, said, ‘ It is there j j
the next seance is to be held.’ Unlocking the door and j I
handing me the light, the Queen said, ‘I well knew it | j
would be in that room; go in and see my treasures.’ Dimly j j
though it was lighted, I saw at a glance that it had been a I I
room where a child or children had been, for in one corner j |
was a broken toy-cart, and near it a toy drum. Other toys j (j
were strewn here and there, as if the little ones, weary with | jj
play, had left the room for a time, and as if the silence j j
would soon again be broken by their presence. At last my j j
eyes rested on a bunch of faded flowers, and these betokened j j
a lapse of months, or even years, as having been undisturbed, j jj
The Queen informed me that this had been the play-room j j
of her child now in heaven, and that every object had re- j
mained just as he left it. The flowers alone had been added, | j
and these had been near the little form after the change we | j
term death. ijj
“The next evening a seance was held there, and that j j
sorrowing mother was granted the most perfect and con- u
vincing proof that her loved one was still near her. It is jjj
impossible to give the details of what took place, for they j j
were of a nature so intimate to the one person that to re- jj
capitulate them to the public would seem almost sacrilegious, j j
There were present relatives of her Majesty, and one maid- j I
of-honour, who, as well as myself, were witnesses, and they j j
cannot have forgotten the tears of joy shed by that most j j
noble and highly-gifted woman as she bowed her head in jjj
thankfulness to God for the solace sent to cheer her.
“ On a scrap of paper in my possession, and of far greater j j
value than gold or precious stones, is this simple memento, j jj
wherein is written:—i I will ever remember with gratitude j
the stance with Mr. Home.—Sophie.’ ” jj
I am not writing this paper as a collection of evidences ! j
of Spiritualism, or I might out of thousands of instances H
have selected many more specific in details, and less open to j j
that criticism which is not altogether captious. 1 have j j
selected this narrative as an instance of the sort of consola- j j
tion some spiritualistic phenomena are capable of affording, j j
and the conviction they carry to the minds of those who from j j
long and affectionate intimacy are well qualified to judge of j j
the reality of the presence of those they have mourned as lost, j jj
The instance is valuable also on account of the rank of the chief j j
personage in the narrative. The thing was not done in a j j
corner, and exaggeration or misrepresentation was not likely j jj
to occur without contradiction. Another point worthy of jjj
note is that the inquiry was an earnest and persevering one, j (j
and that a strong affection bound the mother and child j j
together. The description of that play-room, with its relics j 1
and its locked door, tells a tale of a sanctuary in which jjj
probably hours of solitary retirement had been spent, of ijj
the consecration of much time to the memory of the dear jjj
departed. It must have been the scene of much heartfelt ijj
emotion, and of many tears. The Father, who seeth in jjj
secret, must have been with that pious devotion of a jjj
bereaved mother in her secure retirement. The repeated jjj
failure of frequently repeated attempts at intercourse is note- j j j
worthy. Did the departed spirit determine to manifest j j
himself openly only in the sanctuary consecrated to his ijl
memory—the scene of his earthly joys, and of his mother’s '>•'
persistent affection and tender recollection of him ? It seems
so. This, then, was not an affair of the crucible, but of a
cultus ; not of analytical science and detective skill, but an
affair of the heart. Here, I think, we have reached a most
noteworthy distinction, which involves very grave issues. A
distinction this which involves success and satisfaction, not
in spiritualistic inquiries only, but in those of religion,
and the manifestation of the real man which is within all
the external appearances, with their animal varieties of
manifestation which we see around us in our fellows, and
experience, to our sorrow and our shame, in ourselves.
Why is it that the modern Athenian, with his restless love
of novelty—why is it that the critical, sceptical and some¬
times self-conceited man of science so often fails in coming
to a satisfactory conclusion in his spiritualistic researches ?
Why do inquirers generally go away from stances without
having their hearts stirred—without becoming more thought¬
ful, serious, religious men than they were before ? Is the
fault on this side the veil, or is it on the other ? To answer
these questions it is only necessary to prosecute them.
Whose fault was it that in the early Gospel times not many
men who were wise in externals, or powerful men, or noble¬
men, were called to the knowledge of God ? Whose fault is
it now that the human race, even in its most civilised
varieties, and often in its most cultured specimens, lives in
the external, isolated by selfishness, pride, love of pleasure,
animal passion, and love of this life, away from God, from the
heaven of blessed and harmbnious spirits, and the moral
dignity of its spiritual being ? Is the darkness of the cellar
the fault of the sun, or of the material obstacles' put in the
way of his light ?
A subject prolific this of applications. Who is the man
most likely to profit by a good poem springing out of a
loving heart ? The man who reads it with a critical eye and
passes on to something else as if it were a matter of the
intellect merely, or the man who reads, and re-reads it
—makes it the subject of his daily thought, and repeats it
over until it dwells in him and becomes a part of his inner
man, so that he can reproduce it at will to an intimate
friend as a part of his valued treasures? It is needless
answering such questions. They carry their own answer.
To profit by anything we must treat it reverently, must
yield it such service of attention and time as to incorporate
it in ourselves and make it a part of our being. Spiritualism
has not generally been approached in a spirit of reverent
inquiry, but much more frequently in a spirit of eager
curiosity, or of gay levity, or supercilious criticism. What
wonder then if it should sink gradually in the estimation
even of its believers. Few now think of it as a means of
establishing a bond fide intercourse with their friends gone
before.
Indeed, it is getting a common thing to hear people ex¬
plain away all the phenomena, and the last thing thought
of is to take them au pied de la lettre, as what they declare
themselves to be. A clairvoyant is believed and relied upon
as long as he speaks of material objects and occurrences about
which his accuracy is capable of being tested and verified,
but whenever he speaks of the appearance of a spirit, who
has passed from the earthly form and presents features and
gestures which are recognised by those who knew him well as
having belonged to him in the flesh, his evidence ceases to be
admissible ; so that there are found those who maintain that
Spiritualism has afforded no proof of the continued existence
of our friends who have passed from us. It is not my object
to go into details as to the evidence that has been afforded
in various ways of the existence in another life of the friends
we have lost. The identity of the intelligences who com¬
municate has been proved in every conceivable way, but
still there are those who persist not merely in doubting, but
in denying the proof of a life after this afforded by spiritual
manifestations. There is a state of mind in which belief
becomes impossible. Even though one rose from the dead,
what would this avail to a mind not grounded in religion, in
fact dwelling entirely in externals, with all its interests here,
and all its aversions to a change of being from this to
another world ?
Every age has its Moses and its prophets, and every age
has its vast majority of persons who will not believe them,
who are untrue to their deepest and inmost consciousness;
19
July 12, 1878.
the spikiDualist.
and who consequently have lost the capacity of believing the j j
things that pertain to that inner world. Every form of j j
selfishness, when it becomes dominant, shuts up the in- j j
dividual as it were in a shell; now, as formerly, the love of | j
approbation and of distinction from one’s fellows prevents the l|
influence of the higher beliefs ; now, as formerly, it can be ] j
asked from the depths of a mournful insight, “ How can ye |j|
believe, ye who receive honour one from another, and seek | |
not the honour which cometh from God alone ?” It may be yj
a small matter to the eternal interest of mankind that men | |
turn away from the spiritualistic phenomena with incredulity, In
aversion, or contempt, but it is no small matter if their ! j
isolation in this world from the harmonies of the next de- j j
pends on causes which shut them up in themselves and in I j
this worldly sphere, and which would continue to isolate | j
them even in Heaven, even if they were surrounded by hosts 11
of blessed beings, animated by far other feelings and interests *| j
than those which limit their being. There are interests j j
which affect us more nearly and deeply than any connected 11
with the extension of our knowledge through the instru- j j
mentality of external phenomena. Mr. Buckle thought j j
otherwise; I wonder if he thinks so now. These interests lie I j
in the will, in the direction of its aims, and in their con- | |
formity with the conditions in which we are placed. j j
No action is sweet, no action is elevating, no action is pure | j
unless it be done in the spirit of service, and as a means of j
humble communion with the Source of all strength. i
In such a spirit all friendly intercourse is made more real I
and more close, and communion with spirits requires this j
frame of mind as -its essential condition. Without this it is j
merely phenomenal; it is merely peeping and muttering, j
It can bring nothing but disappointment and a heavy heart j
and a sense of desecration. God is not in it, and the human j I
heart turns from it in disgust and utter scepticism. 0. 11
“Having in my youth severe notions of piety,” said a Persian | |
writer, “I used to rise in the night-watches to meditate, pray, and jji
read the Koran. One night, fully occupied with these practices, my H|
father, a man of practical piety, awoke. ‘Behold,’ said I, ‘ thy other j)
children are lost in irreligious slumber, while I alone awake to praise |(j
God.’ ‘ Son of my soul,’ answered he, ‘ it is better to sleep than wake '{) i
to remark the faults of thy brethren ! ’ ” In
Mrs, Loomis, who informs us that she was one of the earliest |||
clairvoyant and healing mediums in America, was wrecked a few l||
days ago in the steamer Idaho, off the Irish coast, With the loss of all |(
her baggage. Her present address is 2, Yernon-place, Bloomsbury,
London. j
The Testimonial to Mr. Egltnton.—In the course of the entertain- |
ment on the evening of the presentation of the Eglinton testimonial, ||
Mr. Alfred Moore contributed two excellent songs, in addition to those j!
by other friends, as previously published. Messrs. Kirkman kindly lent |)
the performers one of their “ Melo ” pianos, a very beautiful instrument |
recently introduced by them, combining the sustained tone of the organ j
with that of the ordinary grand piano. We are asked to state that, |
thanks to the assistance of the several artistes and other friends, the |
contents of the purse were considerably in excess of the sum we at |
first understood them to be. The purse itself and cushion were worked j!
by two ladies of the committee.
A Modern -Miracle.—A miracle is alleged to have been wrought i|
at the village of Maunch Chunk, in Pennsylvania. A lady, by name ||
Miss Amelia Greth, has, it is asserted, been raised from the dead by jj
Father Heinau, a German Catholic priest at Maunch Chunk. Miss ij
Greth, according to her own account, was enabled, through a communi- |(
cation from her guardian angel, to predict her own death from consump- jj
tion on the 2nd inst., but the prediction was accompanied by the grati- jj
fying announcement that she would be restored to life by a miracle,
would get up from her death-bed, attend mass, and return from church j
cured of all ailments. On the day mentioned Miss Greth died accord- j
ingly, and her remains were viewed by 7,000 persons, who were per- j
mitted to pass through the room in which the corpse was lying. After j
Miss Greth had been dead for about an hour Father Heinau, who had j
attended her in her last moments, announced amid the most profound j
silence that he was about to call “her.” He then cried ‘‘Amelia!” j
and, there being no response, shouted her name again in a loud voice, j
upon which Miss Greth immediately came to life and responded j
“ Father.” The scene in the room, it is stated, was at that moment ij
“indescribable.” Cries of joy and weeping were heard on all sides. H
Miss Greth then asked for a shawl, and was accommodated with a seal- j]
skin jacket, which a lady who stood by the bedside took off and placed ji
on her shoulders. She then walked alone and quite rapidly to church, j1
followed by an immense concourse of people in a state of wild excite- j,
ment. When she arrived at the church Father Heinau preached two |
sermons—one in German, the other in English—and on the conclusion {'
of the service Miss Greth returned to her room apparently strong and jj
hearty. She has since been interviewed by several reporters; but as
she is not permitted to describe her sensations during the time she was
dead, her revelations were confined chiefly to details as to her health,
which seems to have been far from satisfactory.—Pall Mall Gazette.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OE THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday night, at the ordinary monthly meeting of the Council
of the British National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great
Russell-street, London, Mr. Alexander Calder, president, occupied the
chair. The other members present were Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald,
Mr. March, Mr. Algernon Joy, Miss Houghton, Mr. E. T. Bennett,
Miss Withall, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Mrs. Lowe, the Rev. W. W. New-
bould, Mr. Morell Theobald, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
One new member was elected.
Mr. Morell Theoblad read the report of the Finance Committee,
which announced a balance in hand of £108 16s. lid., and recom¬
mended payments to the extent of £104 5s. 8d. The total outstanding
liabilities of the Association were estimated at £5.
Mrs. Lowe moved that the rooms of the Association should be closed
on national holidays. This was passed unanimously.
The report of the General Purposes Committee was asked for by the
Chairman. The Hon. Sec. stated that nobody was present in charge
of it, and asked whether he should read the minutes of the last meeting
of the Committee.
Mr. E. T. Bennett said that that plan would be out of order, because
the minutes of the Committee might be of a private character.
The Hon. Sec. announced the present of an original cast of a
materialised spirit hand to the Association by Mr. Reimers. A vote of
thanks was passed to Mr. Reimers, and on the motion of Mr. Bennett,
seconded by Miss Houghton, the cast was referred to the Research
Committee.
It was resolved to close the offices of the Association from July 27th
to August 24th, and to transact no business at the August Council
meeting beyond adjourning till September.
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald announced that Mr. Stainton-Moses would
continue to take charge of the fortnightly meetings during the next
season, and would draw up in advance a programme of the papers to be
read.
Mr. Algernon Joy said that he had given notice of a motion of rather
a personal nature; he wished to substitute another for it, enforcing the
general principle, but omitting personalities.
Mr. Dawson Rogers objected. Mr. Joy had no right to give notice of
one motion and to substitute another.
Mr. Joy then moved—“ That no payments on account of services
rendered, after this date, in any way, to the Association, be in future
made, directly or indirectly, to The Spiritualist newspaper, so long as
its editor and proprietor continues to be a member of the Council,’’
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald said that he would second the motion as a
matter of form, in order that there might be a discussion of the point,
but he hoped that he should not be expected to vote for it.
Mr. W. H. Harrison said—If Mr. Joy had been allowed to take the
personalities out of this motion, and to make it applicable to all, I had
arranged with him to second it. In future times, when commercial
interests in connection with Spiritualism may be numerous and large,
some such rule will be a safeguard against corruption. I was sorry
when I read that the Council abolished the rule in 1876, but after they
did so I had a clear right to stand for the Council if I saw fit; nobody
knowing my willing sacrifice of ten years of my worldly prospects for
Spiritualism is likely to accuse me of corrupt motives. Our president,
now in the chair, once had a written certificate from the proprietors of
The Engineer newspaper, that, as regards their journal alone, I had
voluntarily given up a large annual income to attend to Spiritualism,
and I voluntarily did the same in other cases, until I relinquished about
£400 a year, with prospective regular increase. I desire not to be on the
Council; Mr. Martin Smith, Mr. C. C. Massey, and other strong pillars
of the Association wish me to be here, but whenever in times past they
suggested it, I held out against it. More recently, while I was speaking
against it to Mr. Stainton-Moses, he nominated me for the last election,
and I reluctantly yielded. My objections are not of the nature raised
by Mr. Joy. Putting advertisements in a public newspaper for personal
convenience is not fairly describable as placing a journal in “ the
service ” of the advertiser, and the editors of the Times and other news¬
papers are therefore under my conditions to be found in Parliament;
editors also quite commonly have seats on local government boards.
Still, despite the Council having judged it to the interests of the Associa¬
tion to remove the rule, despite nearly all the strongest pillars of the
Association wishing me to act, and despite the body of the members
having similarly expressed their opinion by their votes at the last con¬
tested election, it is more to please others than myself that I am here,
and I shall be glad to resign at any time when the Council adopts those
general principles which Mr. Joy desired to substitute for his present
motion.
The motion was then put to the vote. Mr. Joy alone voted for it, con¬
sequently it was lost.
The other motions on the list were postponed until the next meeting.
The proceedings then closed.
An Edinburgh correspondent writes :—“ A good deal of investigation
into Spiritualism is going on here in private among inquirers little sus¬
pected. It is gaining ground.” In Cambridge there has been con¬
siderable activity in relation to Spiritualism for some months past.
The Poet's Magazine for this month says of Mr. Harrison’s Lazy
Lays—“We have much pleasure in adding our congratulations to those
already expressed by our contemporaries. . . . There is much clever
humour in some of these Lays, while others contain philosophy and
thought which will bear serious attention and study.”
20
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 12, 1878.
DR. MACKENZIE AND SPIRITUALISM. j j
BY W. STAINTOK-MOSES, M.A. 11|
I am always sorry to do any one an injustice, or even to j j
find that any friend should think I do him wrong. Iliad, j |
however, no sort of idea that Dr. Mackenzie would propound j I
himself, or desire to be considered, as an authority on Spirit- j j
ualism. I thought that he dealt only with one small phase of j
the vast subject, and that his dealings even with that had not j I
been of recent date. I have mixed rather extensively in 11
Spiritualistic circles for the past seven years, but it has not j j
been my good fortune to meet Dr. Mackenzie either at stances, | j
discussions, or social meetings. I have a large acquaintance j j
with the literature of the subject also, and during that time j
have been busy with it as a contributor, and have made i j
myself acquainted with what goes on here and elsewhere; j
but I have not met with Dr. Mackenzie, save in the'earliest j
days of the movement, and then rarely. This must be my j
excuse for having apparently ignored one whom I am glad j
to welcome as a fellow-worker in a cause where there is room
for all. His researches must have been conducted in esoteric
secresy and seclusion, and I am sure we shall all welcome
the day when he feels himself able to prevent further mis¬
conception by placing his results before us.
I hope, however, that I may be pardoned if I still say
that these results must be other than what he hints at in
his paper on “ Crystallomancy,” and in the explanation
published on June 28th, if I am to admit that he has
grasped the ” full significance ” of this great movement. j
It was his statements with regard to the place which Spirit- |
ualism fills in “ adding weight to the arguments of the j
philosopher on immortality” that led me to say that he had ;
not fully estimated its significance. It was to me extremely |
astonishing to hear that “ Spiritualism, in its most extended j
application, is not a social need,” is not “ a necessity for j
the educated mind; ” only a degree less startling than to be I
told that, in the opinion of a thoughtful man, no one j
11 moderately considering the works of Nature and Provi- i
dence can be wanting in a faith in a future life and world.” j
I do not know whether Dr. Mackenzie intends to enter j
his protest against the a much learning that makes mad” j
the student who immoderately considers these works; but j j
most assuredly many of our most eminent philosophers and | j
men of science, who have spent long years of patient care j |
in such studies, are utterly destitute of that robust faith j j
which Dr. Mackenzie would credit them with. Nay; they, jl
and those whom they influence, are precisely of the mental | |
type which is most easily reached by the experimental | j
method which Spiritualism furnishes. That feeling of pro- j |
found and distrustful questioning as to the future, which a j
careful study of the book of Nature has induced, will yield j |
to no speculative reasoning, however subtle and acute, and j |
must be approached from another side—the side of scientific j j
demonstration. And the first step is—as I have always felt, | |
and as I have found in repeated instances in the course of
conversation with such inquirers—to prove the existence and | j
action of an intelligence outside of a human body. The j i
<£ force unrecognised by science, governed by an intelligence | i
outside of a human body,” a formula now grown stale by
repetition, is nevertheless unshaken as embodying the first j |
great truth that must be recognised. * r
Nothing can be done until the fallacy that a long course I |
of materialistic thought has engendered is swept away ; the j I
fallacy, I mean, that intelligence is impossible apart from j !
a physical brain, and a physical organisation. The pheno- ! |
menon of psychography to which Dr. Slade’s visit to this j j
country drew attention, is one of the methods by which this | j
point is most readily demonstrated. There are other means, j j
but that is ready to our hands. j I
When this is proven the rest is comparatively easy. The |j
next step comes logically and simply. If it be indeed | !
possible that an intelligence, no matter of what sort, can live j j
and act apart from a physical body, then it is possible for me j j
to exist after bodily death. If possible, is it true? Can it ! j
be demonstrated that human beings have, in spiritual existence, j j
survived physical dissolution ? Again Spiritualism supplies j !
the answer. It can be proven. It is demonstrated in a j j
multitude of cases which the inquirer, leaving the first 1 j
principles of his inquiry, is invited to estimate according to jti
the received laws of evidence. In this pursuit he will, doubt¬
less, find it necessary to sift with care, and to reject much
that is not to the point, or not above suspicion; but I fear¬
lessly assert that a careful and prolonged course of such
inquiry will place before him evidence that a fair and candid
mind will be unable to reject. That evidence will be both
presumptive—leading, in a certain number of cases to
establish a probability ; and demonstrative—establishing,
either as a matter of personal experience, or of unimpeach¬
able and sufficient testimony, the identity of spirits who
have once inhabited this earth, and who now communicate
with it.
These are matters of scientific or logical demonstration,
but they do not touch the religious aspect of the matter.
This, however, the student who would fathom the depths
must be prepared to face ; for in it lies one of the most far-
reaching truths connected with the whole subject of the inter¬
communion between the world of matter and the world of
spirit. For this subject is not solely of scientific import. It
is concerned with something more than the demonstration
of the existence of a new force. Its phenomena are, as Dr.
Mackenzie tells us, contradictory and, to a superficial ob¬
server, fleeting and illusory. They puzzle the man who has
not the key, and that key is to be had only as the result of
all-round investigation. None who leaves out of view the
religious aspect can do more than observe certain phenomena
—u a series of phantasmata ”—and perplex himself with
endeavours to understand their rationale. He may do
valuable service in that way, no doubt, but it will rather be
to others than to himself. He will be, at best, a guide-post.
Others may occupy themselves with the study of their own
powers, and will do work far more useful in exploring the
terra incognita to which the occultists have drawn increased
attention. But all will miss the real significance of this move¬
ment if they do not see in it a great solvent of religious
creeds, an organised attempt to set man thinking about those
questions with which creeds are most concerned.
Dr. Mackenzie’s shuddering horror of setting any body
thinking, or, as he calls it, of<£ unsettling a mind,” is funny
enough. “Rather,” he says, “than one mind should be
.rendered unsettled, and therefore unhappy, it would be better
that the whole of this series of investigations should cease
and determine.” Why? That very unsettlement is pre¬
cisely what I should like to effect in a great number of
minds. I should like to stir them up and make them face
for themselves the problems that most concern them. If
they are right in their belief, they can give a reason for the
faith that is in them ; and I should very much like to hear
it. If they are wrong, then they ought to be unsettled, and
the sooner the better. If, as will be found to be the case in
a great number of instances, they have never thought at all,
but have assented to a hereditary creed without taking the
trouble even to think what one of its articles implies ; and
if that creed on analysis proves to be, as it will in many
cases, a human invention, foolish and contradictory, or even
dishonouring to God and pernicious to man, then I should
not only like, but I will very earnestly try to unsettle it, and
to substitute for it something nobler and better, and more
suited to man’s intelligent wants and cravings. Why, if
Dr. Mackenzie’s shuddering conservatism of faith had been
the rule throughout this world’s history, that record would
have been of a very different sort from what it is, for the
story of human progress and enlightenment has been little
else but this very unsettlement of erroneous belief which
Dr. Mackenzie deprecates. All great movements onward
have been preceded by convulsion, by the unsettlement of
opinion, by the tearing up of prejudices, the sweeping away
of old errors, and the preparing of the mental soil for the
reception of the new seed.
It is necessary for the progress of mankind that such
epochs should occur. Man marches on ; and that faith which
sufficed an earlier and less enlightened age is not sufficient
for extended knowledge. The craving for more light springs
up in the hearts of those who are the pioneers of the new
age, and God’s answer is not far to seek. It comes in pro¬
portion to man’s need, and his fitness and receptivity. And
thus it is, and always has been, that the courier-fire is
handed on, and the world made better for more light.
That which is good for the race is good also for the
THE SPIRITUALIST.
n
July 1% 1878.
individual. If a few, who would fain be left alone, are
unsettled and do not find the process pleasant, it is perhaps
because they need it most, and will be most benefited by it,
as torpid and sluggish constitutions are most helped by a
thorough shaking. Or it may be that they are not fitted for
the rough work; or, again, that they have slumbered so |
long that the waking is hard, and the eye dreads the light.
But whatever the cause, the work must go on, is going on,
and will progress. And among the many causes for dis- |
satisfaction with the present age, its crude materialism, its j
social sins, its hollow shams, and its pervading selfishness,
I, for one, thank God that there is considerable chance that |
the minds of many will be unsettled, as the first necessary j
step to advanced knowledge, from which alone a truer and
higher life can be inspired.
fottvs. 1
THE PHANTOM.
BY ALICE WORTHINGTOX.
Beckoning ■with phantom hand,
From out the dim vision land
Bordering death’s vale,
In moonlight’s soft gleaming
That face in my dreaming
Looked weary and pale.
Midst silence unbroken
Each trembling word spoken
With heart beating fast:
The phantom replieth,
“ Man’s soul never dyeth,
Though ages roll past.
“ When loosed from earth’s prison
The vexed soul hath arisen
From sin’s fatal blight,
Then from flesh rent asunder
Lost in love and deep wonder
It expands in God’s light.
“ Still earth-bound and weary,
In pilgrimage dreary,
I cling to this sphere ;
True love is immortal,
Unchecked by death’s portal,
She dwelleth still here.”
Past firelight now dying,
Dim shadows were flying
And waved to and fro ;
A chill hand fast bound me,
Strange music stole round me,
’Twas whispered, “ I go ! ”
Then swift disappearing,
No footsteps in hearing,
All passed from my sight;
Uproused from deep slumber,
I counted each number
The clock struck that night.
A SONG IN SEASON.
* Cuckoo has done her worst.
The blackbird’s last loud burst
Has charmed and gone ;
All ruffled on the lawn
He sits, like wretch aspersed,
With clothing soiled and torn.
The cushat only, now,
Sings her last lonely vow,
With the first fall
Of feathers, that is all;
Not yet the foliage, still each bough
Hangs thickly clad on oak and elm tree tall.
But still a fall; alas,
How swiftly pleasures pass !
From genial spring
Rise summer heats, to bring
Sad silence o’er the grove. A farce
Is life ? Ah! Nay! A serious thing.
And soon the leaves, the leaves,
They too must go ; the sheaves
One scarcely gathers,
When leaves all fall, like feathers ;
But cold or sunshine, how man grieves
O’er his losses ; all the weathers!
Scrutator.
Annual Meeting of the Derby Psychological Society.—The
first annual meeting of the Derby Psychological Society was held in the
small room of the Temperance Hall, Derby, on Friday evening last,
Mr. J. J. Morse in the chair. The report and balance-sheet for the
year were presented and adopted. The income for the year expired
was £16 iGs. 8d., and a balance in hand of £1 5s. 8£d. was reported
and carried forward. Mr. J. Mayle was re-elected treasurer, and Mr.
T. W. Ward, 15, Railway-terrace, Derby, was re-elected secretary.
The society contemplates extending its operations by more frequent
meetings, and the establishment of Sunday services during the coming
ason.
{
Corresponuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned ,
copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which are not anonymows.]
DARK AND LIGHT SEANCES—THE RING TEST.
Sir,—As I notice in the American papers much discussion going on
respecting the dark and light seances, I merely now offer my opinion
that both are useful.
To offer a materialisation “ light ” seance to sceptical or inexperienced
persons is most unwise, and should never be done until after the sitters
have had many dark seances, and become familiar with their genuine¬
ness. Tests can always be followed up in darkness, proving that
nothing is done by the medium, and when the mind becomes satisfied of
such fact, after a dozen or more tests, then only is the learner fit to be
allowed to attend a materialisation seance; and then only is the mind
prepared to receive the facts. The inquirer should be introduced to a
very short materialisation seance at first, for the phenomenon is so
wonderful, and is liable to be judged as imposture, when nothing of the
the kind really exists.
In dark sittings (in darkness it is easier for the spirits to work into
material nature) it is proved by the tests that “ spirits ” do the work ;
we, then, ought to give them credit in trying to visibly show themselves
in twilight; and in their statement that they will ultimately do so in a
strong light. As to their modus operandi that is their business; we
shall ultimately learn it from them; but let us now quietly register all
the facts that occur, and get all the information we possibly can
from good and honest mediums.
On one evening no visitors were present at my house except my
medium, Miss K. S.- Cook. So myself and daughter and Miss Cook
went into the library and shut ourselves up in the dark, without a
cabinet. We sat round a table on three chairs, and in a few minutes
the spirit Lillie spoke to us. When we had joined hands, I said, “ Now,
Lillie, I should like the iron ring placed on my daughter’s arm to-night,
as she has never had that done, and it is our last night.” Lillie replied,
“ I’ll try.” I struck a light, got the playthings together, found the
ring, laid it on the table, saw their two hands joined, blew the light out,
and joined both my hands to theirs. In two minutes my daughter said,
“ Father, the ring has come on my arm, and our hands have never
separated.”
I then said, “ Lillie, I want you to materialise, as we are now, for you
know the room is only like a large dark cabinet.” She replied, “ I will
do so, but only Miss Blackburn must hold the medium.” I said, “ Why
not both of us ?” She said, “ I can do it with both, but as your nature
is not exactly the same to me as hers, it interferes and makes it more
difficult.”
I therefore pushed the table aside, and told my daughter to hold both
the medium’s hands with her left hand; I held my daughtefs right.
Then we were told to shake or pinch the medium to keep her conscious,
which we did, and in two or three minutes from the medium’s left side,
out came Lillie, in a great deal of calico, which she kept stroking down¬
wards to make fit. She came over to me, and kissed my forehead, then
went and undid the iron bar of the window shutter, turning also one of
the leaves of the Venetian blind, but suddenly shut it, saying, “ It will
hurt my medium.” My daughter had never left hold of Miss Cook all
the time. Whilst at the Venetian blind Lillie said,(t Miss Blackburn,
bring my medium here, and you will see us both.’’ So my daughter and
Miss Cook rose from their seats, and went two or three yards towards
the Venetian blind, and Lillie said, “Now, Miss Blackburn, go to your
chair; you see us both.” My daughter left hold of the medium, and
returned to her seat, saying, “ I see two distinct forms, but I cannot
clearly see your face.” Lillie instantly replied, “ But your father, three
minutes since, knows my face was on his forehead, when I spoke to
him, and patted his cheeks.” Then the spirit Lillie said, “ I must go.
I am melting. The power is gone. Good night,” and sank apparently
through the floor at the medium’s feet.
Now, I ask, were the face and lips that kissed my forehead, and spoke to
me, and the hands which patted my face, flexible or not ? Could a dummy
undo an iron bar whilst my daughter held both hands of the medium ?
I say, from these facts, doctors of medicine, and others who can,
ought to investigate the variations of pulse and heart-beatings of
mediums, for the benefit of mankind, and not from frivolous curiosity.
Charles Blackburn.
July 7th, 1878. —- - 
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN SCOTLAND.
Sir,—A few more seances with Miss Fairlamb have been given in
Edinburgh since the publication of those in No. 305 of The Spiritualist,
and with greater success. But the most important event of all, is that
one of the members of the circle invited Miss Fairlamb to spend a few
days at Cramond, a few miles from town, on the Firth of Forth, and on
the Sunday, at midday, while in the garden tent, she became controlled,
and said that the conditions favoured a seance. Her host and hostess
took their position a few yards away, under a tree, and in a few
moments the well-known form of “Geordie” protruded through the
aperture of the tent. On it being remarked that a photograph would
be a valuable acquisition to the cause, it was arranged that the following
morning, at six o’clock, everything should be arranged for that purpose.
Monday came, and the results were two clear, distinct photographs—one
of the head only, protruding through the tent, which every one who has
seen the face will recognise at once; the other “ Geordie” outside the
tent, standing on one leg, with the other resting on a camp stool. The
features and the whole form and surroundings are beautifully perfect, and
to my idea of the matter I think the results the best acquisition to the
truths of Spiritualism since the photographing of Katie King. Geordie says
Miss Fairlamb’smediumshiphas much improved since her visit to those
kind friends ; and Miss Fairlamb’s account to me is that as she was
THE SPIRITUALIST.
22
July 12, 1878.
lying at the bottom of the tent she was quite conscious. She says that
there were two forms in the cabinet at one time. Anyhow, as the whole
account will be published in full, and copies of the photograph sent up
to London, I need not say more. J. T. Rhodes.
26, Albert-street, Edinburgh.
TREATMENT OP GUESTS IN THE HOUSE OP A BIRMINGHAM MINISTER.
Sir,—-I think I am in duty bound to forward to you an account ot a
Seance we have had lately. It has been often asked why, if the pheno- j
inena of Spiritualism are true, they have not made greater strides, and
why the manifestations read of as being produced at home circles
cannot be produced in public % The following account will, I think,
furnish the answer. I write this that it may be the means of placing j
all honest mediums on their guard, to ascertain beforehand who their
sitters will be when they receive a most pressing invitation from people j
of position, to visit and give them a sitting in a friendly way.
On Thursday last Mr. John Summer field and myself received an
invitation from Mr. George St. Clair (successor of the late George i
Dawson, minister of the Church of the Saviour, Birmingham) to visit
him and give him a sitting, not in a professional way, but as friends. I I
may here say that Mr. Summerfield’s name had been mentioned to Mr. !
St. Clair (who intended to give a lecture on Spiritualism at the above
church), by Mr. Franklin, Spiritualist, of this town, who was also
present at the sitting. We accepted the invitation, and after we
arrived at Mr. St. Clair’s house, we found, among others present, Mr.
Glydon, a manufacturer of some note; also one of the members of
the Town Council, Mr. Lawson Tait, When all had assembled, Mr. !
Summerfield (medium) sat with ten others at a large oblong table, j
After two short addresses from his guides, darkness was asked for, and
given as far as circumstances would allow, but Mr. St. Clair left a small
jet of gas on. Having resumed our seats, all were told to hold hands, j
and the medium was controlled again. Flowers were asked for, and in j
about two or three minutes they came ; the room was light enough to j 1
see the flowers drop, also for us to see each other. The table was rising j ,
and the flowers dropping, when a flash of light illuminated the whole i 1
room. Mr. St. Clair had broken conditions, and turned up the gas so I '
much that the flame rose above the globe, and I saw Mr. St. Clair j (
getting hastily down from the. chandelier. j *
But what did they see ? Not the medium a trickster ? No. He had jj
not moved, and was still entranced, with his hands on the table, like i (
the rest of us. But this they did see. They saw roses and flowers of i <
various kinds round each sitter’s hands, and they saw they had lit up i j
their own confusion. They felt ashamed of themselves. i (
Now, sir, I should like to ask you, who know the danger of a sudden j j
light to a medium, whether, after receiving a friendly invitation, it is I
straightforward and gentlemanly to be awarded such unfriendly treat- |
ment at the hands of Mr. George St. Clair and Mr. Lawson Tait ? j
One would not have expected sucb. I conclude by making a statement j
that Mr. John Summerfield has always accepted any test suggested, j
and with cheerful good humour, and I have his consent to say that he !
is still able and willing to sit with those two gentlemen under any test rjl
conditions and in the company of recognised Spiritualists, if it would j <
do any good. John Collet.
312, Bridge-street, Birmingham, July 8, 1878.
A PRIVATE SEANCE.
Sir,—The following account of a truly wonderful seance you may |
perhaps think of sufficient interest to lay before your many readers :— I
A few evenings ago, by the kind invitation of Mrs. Corner, of 3, St. i
Tbomas’s-square, Hackney, London, I formed one of a circle of ten at
her house, with Mr. Haxby as medium.
The first part of the sitting was in the dark, when all the usual !
physical manifestations, so often reported, immediately commenced.
We had several spirit voices speaking at the same time, spirit lights in
abundance, spirit music and whistling, raps and noises, and the lifting j
of heavy articles of furniture over our heads into the middle of the i
circle. This continued for about an hour, and I was not sorry when |
the din ceased, and we were instructed by the spirits '** to light up ” j
and sit for materialisations.
The medium now took his seat in the cabinet, which was a very tern- j
porary affair, formed in a corner of the room by means of a piece of !
string and a light curtain, the sitters forming a kind of semicircle, the |
extreme person at either end being close to the cabinet. Next to Miss
Nina Corner, who was first, I occupied the second seat from one of
these ends, so that by leaning forward (which I did), I could bring my j
face within a foot of anything that might appear from or that was
going on in the cabinet.
It is now important for me to assure you that there was a good light ]
in the room, every person being distinctly visible. I tried the experi¬
ment, and had no difficulty at all in seeing the time by my watch.
We began singing “Beautiful Star,” &c., when, in less than three
minutes after the medium entered the cabinet, a tall, portly woman, in
Oriental costume, with dark hair and face, stepped out and bowed to j
us ; she did not speak or move from the cabinet, but stood before us j
about a minute, and then retired whence she came.
The next spirit, who appeared almost immediately afterwards, was j
that of a tall, Turkish-looking individual, clothed in pure white robes,
and with a turban on his head; the hair and beard were quite black,
his arms and face copper-coloured. The arms from the elbows
(excepting jewelled ornaments), and the legs from the knees, were bare, j
In his turban shone with wonderful brilliancy five large stones, appa¬
rently diamonds, flashing the light in every direction. This spirit, with
the greatest ease and freedom, immediately walked out into the middle i
of the room, going round to each sitter, shaking hands with some,
bowing and smiling to others, and allowing others to inspect his arm I
ornaments, which were apparently golden bracelets set with precious
stones. He was thus engaged about ten minutes. He afterwards, in
the most deliberate manner, came and placed his naked foot on my
knees. I asked him to allow me to touch it, so that I might be able to
judge of its solidity (I could feel its weight), a request he smilingly
assented to. I did so. The foot and leg were perfectly formed, and
all the difference apparent to me between it and that of a mortal was
that its temperature was less, feeling quite cold and somewhat moist.
I distinctly felt the joints of the foot and toes, and the bones in them.
The spirit now retired, when “Joey” ordered us to extinguish the
light altogether. This we did, and consequently were in total darkness,
but only for a few seconds, for the cabinet was strangely illuminated
from the inside, and then once more out came the Turk, but this time
bringing his own light with him ; he passed round the circle as before,
going though the same performances, staying several, minutes, and
finally retired altogether.
Other spirits came out of the cabinet, one an Indian called “ Rattle¬
snake.” He went back and brought out the medium, so that we could
plainly see them both at once. Ordinary gaslight having been restored,
another spirit came out, apparently a woman; she also brought the
entranced medium out at the same time, but her form was not well
defined. The power was evidently getting exhausted, and we soon after,
by the spirits’ orders, concluded a sitting of two hours.
In the above I have merely given the principal incidents of the seance.
Had I gone into details I could have filled several pages of The Spirit¬
ualist with the account; but the above is sufficient for the contemplative
mind to ask itself if such things be true, and if it is possible for mankind
to put itself almost at will into intelligent communication with the spirit
world.
I know what awful doubts and surmises must pass through the brain
of all honest, intelligent, and religious people who may read such
accounts as the above for the first time; but, brother and sister, whoever
you are, I know (not believe) from long experience that they are true. I
also know that all the members of the circle here alluded to are people
whose evidence would be accepted before the Law Courts, even in a case
of life and death, and that they would swear to this truth on oath before
a magistrate, and they thankfully accept the facts as steps in advance,
for our benefit, permitted by Him who made, governs, and sustains the
whole universe. John Rouse.
80, George-street, Sloane-square, London, July 9th.
MEDIUMSHIP AND MORALITY.
No. II.
{From the “Banner of Light P)
It is not affirmed that mediums who fall, in any of the ways noted in
a previous article, under the psychological power of others, are wholly
free from responsibility in all cases. It is only asserted, as a common-
sense truth, that by far the greater share of culpability rests upon the
aggressors—the dominating power—whose participation is apt to be
overlooked. How far any individual may be able to resist that power,
in any given case, we have no certain means of knowing, and therefore
will not presume to judge. A modern poet has truly said:—
The world needs a new theory of crime
And retribution, based on all the facts
And fixed in all the reason of the race—
As full of hope as Christ’s great heart of love.
The peculiar facts of medial experience, and of psychological impul¬
sion, have not been taken into account in framing the popular theories
of moral responsibility. It is time this were done, and that more just
judgments should prevail. And multiplied modern experiences are
forcing the matter upon the public thought.
The writer believes it to be an undeniable fact, though seldom recog¬
nised, that mediums, in consequence of their peculiar susceptibility to
surrounding influences, are largely what their visitors make them.
They are affected, for good or ill, by the physical, mental, moral, and
spiritual states of those who approach them to an extent that is little
realised. Like the sensitive needle of the mariner’s compass, they are
liable to be swayed, in this direction or that, by every human magnet
that is brought near them; and every human organism is a magnet of
its kind. The responsibility, therefore, for their careers must rest
largely upon those who consult and employ them, and this in ways and
to an extent that few are aware of.
Liable to be swayed, please note ; not that they necessarily are so in
all cases. On the contrary, it is believed there is a way in which, if
understood and earnestly availed of, all honest and true-hearted sensi¬
tives may either protect themselves or secure protection from invisible
helpers against serious moral defection. But of this further on.
Let us look at some of the practical lessons which are deducible from
the foregoing observations. Even though they may have been often
pointed out before, they should be reiterated until more generally
heeded.
One is that mediumship, while in its wise and intelligent use fraught with
the highest blessings to both its possessor and the world, is yet attended
by dangers. The state of keen susceptibility which it implies, especially
in its more elevated and valuable forms, which renders the subject sen¬
sitive to the thought-vibrations and the will-impulses of denizens of
the Wisdom Sphere, at the same time exposes either him or her to
intense sufferings from sources unfelt by ordinary mortals; also to
subtle invasions from other wills, perhaps entirely unsuspected at the
moment, which may lead to words and actions at variance with one’s
better convictions. Hence mediumship should never be tampered with by
persons of frivolous and immature character, nor sought or practised
as a source of mere amusement, or for pecuniary gain. It should never
be urged upon persons whose own interior feelings are averse to it—as
it sometimes thoughtlessly is by over-curious or impatient inquirers—
July 12, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.’
23
for there is probably a good reason why such persons should not incur
its liabilities. When they can safely do so, the inner prompting will
doubtless come to them. The only motive which should lead to its
exercise is a supreme and sincere love of truth and good, and a convic¬
tion that these may be promoted thereby. Spiritualists would save
their cause from an immense amount of reproach and obloquy, were
they careful to encourage only this class of mediums.
A second lesson relates to the disposition or attitude of mind in which
a medium should be approached. This should never be done in a state
of mental positiveness or predetermination as to results of any kind,
since this mental attitude is liable either to suspend the exercise of the
mediatorial gift entirely, or to so dominate the sensitive organism as to
produce a mere echo of what is in the visitor’s mind. Numerous illus¬
trations of such results might be given, had we room, explaining many
of the puzzles and failures of superficial investigators. The proper
spirit in which to approach one of these sensitive instruments for
transmitting the thoughts of angels is that of receptivity and teachable¬
ness, This does not mean open-mouthed credulity and unreasoning
assent. It implies that readiness to observe and to listen, that hospi¬
tality to what may be new and strange, which can lay aside, for the
time, all preconceived opinions, and which permits, nay, invites, a free
flow of the inspiring influence, or free action of the occult force, what¬
ever it may be. In this way only can this influence or force express
itself without obstruction, and thus fully reveal its true nature and sig¬
nificance. Afterwards apply your critical powers, and judge as you may
of its character and value.
Many parsons seem unable, from constitutional bias or force of habit,
to assume this receptive or negative attitude, even temporarily. This
seems to be the case especially with those who pride themselves on
their “ scientific ’’ attainments. “ Knowledge puffeth up ” sometimes in
these days as it did in Paul’s time. And those who are puffed up by it
naturally conceive themselves to be most capable of investigating all
things. They may imagine themselves to be the only ‘‘experts” who
are competent to investigate. Yet this mental attitude of itself dis¬
qualifies them for investigation where subtle and delicate forces are in
operation, liable to be swayed and counteracted by their very thoughts,
and by the unperceived auras which surround them.
But a third, and still more important lesson relates to the objects or
purposes for which the services of a medium are sought. These should
always be of an exalted, worthy, and noble character. As the medium
should be actuated only by a supreme and sincere love of truth and
good, so the inquirer should ever be impelled by the same lofty motive.
If the object is mere amusement, love of novelty, desire for the mar¬
vellous and astounding, or greed of gain, or if the mind is full of
suspicions of fraud or evil surmisings of any nature, a corresponding
atmosphere is thrown around the medium, and the results are liable to
be affected accordingly. If a mixed company is present, the individuals
being actuated by various motives, the results may be expected to be
mixed and incongruous. But if all assembled are united in an earnest
aspiration to receive that manifestation of truth or of power which shall
be of the highest good to themselves and to humanity, they may hope to
attract the presence of exalted beings who will delight to answer such
aspirations. Then the medium will be surrounded by celestial auras,
and the wisdom of angels may be breathed through his or her organism.
Beyond all question, the disorders and follies, the delusions and
immoralities which have been and are the reproach of Spiritualism,
have had their chief source in the base and unworthy motives of those
who seek the services of mediums. Nor can a higher type of medium-
ship be expected to prevail, and the questionable and unreliable class
to disappear, until the people desire it. The demand for wonders
instead of wisdom, for selfish gain instead of golden truth, induces (he
attempt to furnish a supply, and counterfeits, deceptions, and delusions
are the natural consequence.
It is not denied but that some good, on the whole, may come to indi¬
viduals and to humanity through the exercise of mediumship of a low
grade, and the pursuit of investigations from curiosity or other selfish and
unworthy motives. It is only claimed that not the highest or best results
can be expected in that way, and that disorders and evils of various
kinds are inevitably attendant thereupon.
This suggests another lesson, namely, that mediums who would pre¬
serve a high tone of integrity and of spirituality must not sit for nor
mingle their spheres with all sorts of persons. They must reserve the
right to select their visitors. They should require candour, honesty,
sincerity and elevation of purpose, purity of motive, and cleanliness of
person, i.e., freedom from oftensive odours, as of tobacco, and from
obnoxious auras as well. By keeping their own spiritual perception
keen and alert, they may discriminate in every case, and thus save
themselves from deteriorating influences. Motives of gain, or fear of
giving offence, should never be allowed to overbear a medium’s
intuitive feeling of repugnance to offensive spheres, or an inward
caution to beware of mingling with them. If insincere and impure
persons are taught that their interior states are discerned, and that the
gifts of the spirit are not for them, this will be a powerful inducement
to reform and to become worthy of angelic communion.
So sincere inquirers, earnest seekers for truth, should utterly refuse
to sit in promiscuous (i.e., unselect) circles, or to encourage any medium
who indulges in them. The practice is harmful to all, and specially
perilous to sensitives ; particularly if such circles are held in the dark,
which induces an increased degree of negativeness.
Again, mediums who would preserve themselves from detrimental
and degrading influences, must beware of physical and nervous exhaus¬
tion, through excessive exercise of their gifts, or from any other cause.
Many are tempted to late hours and other dissipations by the eagerness
of inquirers and the unwise importunities of friends. It is when in
depleted and exhausted states that they are most liable to the invasion
of subtle deteriorating forces. It is then that their own wise guardians,
which all may be supposed to have, are least able to act upon them,
through lack of the nervous aura by means of which they act. By all
means, beware of attempting to recover from such exhaustion by the
use of spirituous liquors or other narcotics.
This practice is believed to be alarmingly prevalent in some sections,
resulting in the wretched debasement if not utter destruction of useful
mediumship. The proper means of restoration when exhausted is rest
or repose. The seeming temporary relief afforded by alcholic beverages
and narcotics is a sham and a delusion. They do not restore the vital
forces. Spirituous liquors and other narcotics, no doubt, under some
circumstances, render certain organisms more susceptible to control of
spirits; but of what class? Rarely, judging from what the writer has
seen, do the truly exalted and wise mingle their spheres with the fumes
of alcohol, tobacco, or opium, but the field is more likely to be usurped
instead by those who were addicted to the use (or rather misuse) of
these articles while in the body, and have not yet risen beyond it. The
influence of such is at least questionable. Facts within the writer’s
knowledge indicate that the practice referred to on the part of mediums
is ruinous to body, mind, and morals. Beware, then, I repeat, of ex¬
haustion by excess of any kind, or depletion by absorbers, who are
ready to fasten like vampires upon every accessible medium ; but, if
exhausted, rest, and do not stimulate.
• Finally, though our subject is far from being exhausted, a word as to
means of protection available to mediums against deteriorating influences.
These means have already been hinted at. It would seem, in accord¬
ance with spiritual laws, that if mediums keep their own interior aspira¬
tions for truth, purity, and good ever alive and strong, these will hold
them in constant rapport with the pure beings of exalted spheres, where
presence and aura will be as a wall of fire round about them, through
which the impure and evil may not penetrate. And if they are careful
to avoid association with gross-minded, frivolous, selfish, and sensual
persons, thus keeping their own atmospheres free from taint, and also
i abstain from all excesses and depletions, by which their vital and
nervous forces are wasted, they may hope to be either impervious to the
invasions of evil, or at all times in a condition to receive seasonable
warning of danger from kind, angelic guardians.
“ Failing to do their utmost in these regards, of course the responsi¬
bility of moral lapses under the psychical power of others rests in some
degree on them. But it is not for those whose influence has in any
way contributed to these lapses to cast the stones of condemnation.
In truth, the liabilities, capabilities, responsibilities, and high possi¬
bilities of mediumship, form a subject well worthy of more careful study
than it has usually received at the hands of either Spiritualists in
general, or mediums themselves. A. E. N.
THE BLOOD OF MARTYRS THE SEED OF THE CHURCH.
If St. Paul could say that he could wish himself accursed from
Christ for the sake of his brethren after the flesh, I do not think that
his greatest followers looked merely on the world as a great sea of
fire, in which, amid the universal shipwreck, they had nothing to do
but to seize for safety their individual plank. No ! I think that they
knew well that “ there is nothing fruitful but sacrifice,” that the blood
of the martyrs is the seed of the Church, that by their death and by
their constancy they were securing the victory of the cause they loved.
And so it was.
“ The angels of martyrdom and victory,” says Mazzini, “are
brothers. Both extend their protecting wings over the cradle of
future life.” It was the martyrs who mainly won the victory of
Christianity, nor did it shake them that they were to die not having
seen the victory, as Moses did before his feet touched the Holy Land.
They walked by faith and not by sight; and trusting in Grod they
knew that in due time the victory would come.
Another grand thing they did was to set the loftiest of all examples,
to bear witness to the most necessary of all truths, the only truth which
can purify a corrupt society, or ennoble a selfish world—that there is in
life something better than ease and comfort, more delightful than
pleasure, “ more golden than gold ; ” that the life is more than meat,
and the body than raiment; and that man’s life consisteth not in the
abundance of things which he possesseth. Such men, as has been well
said, “create an epidemic of nobleness.” Men become better and
greater from gazing at their example; more ready to do and dare ;
more willing to lift "their eyes out of the mire of selfishness and the dust
of anxiety and toil; more brave to try whether they cannot too scale
the toppling crags of duty, and hold converse with those their lofty
brethren upon
“ The shining table-lands
To which our G-od Himself is moon and sun.”
Through the darknesses and disappointments of life, amid the wars
and miseries of history, those high examples glide ever before us like a
pillar of fire. And thus their power of example by death becomes a
power of influence in life. It is with good men as with evil. Evil, as
we all know to our cost, attracts by its sympathies, and those who
have once been overcome by it add, alas! even unconsciously, to its
power of attraction. Well, so it is, thank God! with good. “The
heroic self-sacrifice of one single man may not only rally a whole
wavering host, but may even flash like lightning through the centuries,
and kindle in a whole nation a flame of holy enthusiasm.”—Canon
Farrar in “ Saintly Workers.”
“ They came here,” said Artemus Ward of the Puritans, “that they
might worship in their own way, and prevent other people from
worshipping in their’n.”
On Sunday next Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance address in the
Good Templars’ Hall, Churchgate, Low Pavement, Nottingham.
Subject: “ Spiritualism, and the Work of the Spiritualist.” To com¬
mence at 6.30 p.m.
24
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 12, 1878.
MRS. PICKERING’S SEANCES.
Mrs. Pickering’s seances are now attracting much attention in
America; the following account of one of them is from the Loicell j
Morning Times (Massachusetts), June 10th, 1878 :—
On Saturday evening last Mrs. Hannah Pickering, of Rochester, j
N.H., whose exploits as a materiahsing medium have created such j
excitement in Spiritualistic circles during the past two years, gave a j
seance at the residence of a well-known and respectable family in
Westford, the members of which are not Spiritualists. There were j
about seventy-five applications for tickets, so eager were the people to j
witness the remarkable manifestations. But twenty persons, however, j
could be accommodated, and about a quarter past seven o’clock on j
Saturday evening these persons assembled at the house where the j
seance was to be given. Every one was given an opportunity to j
thoroughly examine the apparatus used as a cabinet, and nearly all i
availed themselves of the privilege. The so-called cabinet was placed j
in the north-east corner of a large parlour, and was made up as
follows :—There was a background of some dark material, and the cur¬
tain consisted of black velvet, with an aperture of about a foot and a half.
A small bow-shaped piece of wood was used, from which the curtain
hung, the entire length of the same being three and one-half feet. The
height from the top of the curtain to the floor was six feet six inches,
and to the ceiling of the room eighteen inches. The greatest space at
any one point inside the curtain was three feet. The closest scrutiny
failed to reveal anything by which fraud could be carried on, the whole
arrangement being so simple as to dismiss at once any such thoughts.
At 7.45 the circle was formed, which was composed of the following <
persons: Rev. Mr. Moulton, F. L. Fletcher and wife, Charles L.
Fletcher, Mrs. John Lanktree, Mr. Albert Wright, Misses Carrie and ,
Ellen Davis, Mr. David P. Lawrence, Mrs. Parmelia Stanchfield, Mrs. 1
Luther Prescott, Mr. Elbridge G. Spaulding, Mr. R. S. Stoddard, Miss ! \
Minnie L. Searle, Mrs. Flora Moran, M. H. Fletcher and wife, all of (
Westford; Marcus D. Cole, Mrs. A. A. Coburn, of Lowell, and the (
representative of the Times. The gentleman who conducted the affair '
explained that the weather was very unfavourable for a siance, as rain j
or dampness generally destroyed the influence, and that it was only
on clear and bright days that successful seances were held. The circle
was then informed as to the conditions necessary to be observed, which
were simple, merely being that no one should touch the spirit-forms or
carry on a loud discussion.
At 7.50 Mrs. Pickering was introduced to the circle. She is a
middle-sized woman of rather prepossessing appearance, apparently
about thirty-three years old, and weighs in the vicinity of one hundred j)
and twenty pounds. She was clad in a tight-fitting dress of black j c
material, and her form was scrutinised very closely to see that she did i (
not conceal about her person any clothing or articles that might be used j
in the manifestations. There was not any white article about her. She
entered the cabinet, and Miss Belle Messerve, an accomplished pianist |
and singer, played some familiar music, the circle joining in with her
in singing.
At seven minutes past eight hands were shown at the aperture, and three j
minutes later the form of a female dressed in white from head to foot j
was seen. There was not a button, or anything dark, seen on the form, i
The features were not distinct, and it retired, emerging a moment after- j
ward with apparently increased strength, for it left the cabinet and stood |
out clear, when it was recognised as Lizzie Ferris, by her sister, Mrs. j
Stanchfield. The form came directly in front of Mrs. Stanch- j
field, and when it was recognised it seemed highly pleased. Shortly
afterwards the form of a tall man made its appearance. It had long i
black chin whiskers, and was recognised by several as John Tower, a
former resident of "Westford. The third form which appeared was a I
female figure of about medium height, which then came to the front of |
the cabinet and then retired. The second time it made its appearance !
it came directly in front of the writer. The lady next to the writer I
asked if it was for her, when the form shook its head and pointed to the j
writer, who asked if she meant him, and she nodded her head and I
smiled. The writer, however, failed to recognise the spirit. She went j
back to the cabinet; and the third time she emerged she came before !
him and threw a calla lily into his lap. Notwithstanding her proximity j ’
to him, he failed to detect any resemblance to any of his departed | ■
friends. She seemed greatly disappointed at not being recognised. As 11
she retired she lifted up the curtain and held it back long enough to | \
allow every one in the circle to see the medium sitting on the chair, j i
The next figure was that of a tall young woman, but she failed to be recog- 11
nised. The form of a man next appeared, and in response to inquiries ’
if he was Mr. Moran three raps were given signifying yes, but his j ■
sister, who was present, could not identify him. The sixth form was j1
that of a woman, and was recognised by Mr. Stoddard as that of Mrs. j \
William Stoddard, a relative, who died ten years ago. The peculiar <
manner in which she wore her hair was one of the features by which he 1
distinguished her. I j
A little delay here ensued, and the spirits called for a slate, and i|
wrote thereon a request that the door at the other end of the room, j j
which was open, should be closed. This was complied with, and a i
young lady appeared, crowned with a garland of flowers. She was |
followed in turn by another form, which was immediately recognised by j j
many present as that of an old neighbour, Augusta Goodhue. Mr. Law- j)
rence recognised the next form as that of Joel Lawrence, who died j (
in the army. The spirit acknowledged its pleasure of the recognition by j)
bowing and smiling. As it retired, the curtain was held up; two j j
forms beside that of the medium were distinctly seen, and in answer to 1 (
a request of one of the circle, the curtain was again raised, and the same j}
was seen, if anything, more distinctly than before. The form of a little j 5
child was then produced, but it came no further than the cabinet. ||
Mr. Wright thought the next form had the appearance and manner of j
his mother, but was not satisfied. A small boy then appeared and ^ i
| j danced around the room, and seemed to be in a gleeful humour. The
} j twelfth form was that of an Indian chief, decked out in feathers and
(| the usual ornaments of the Indian. This form was fully six feet high,
) | and seemed very strong and vigorous. An Indian maiden, who answered
(j to the name of “ Bright Eyes,” was the next apparition, and she seemed
(! delighted at appearing before the circle, several of whom recognised her,
) f having seen her before. She danced, took up a bell, and laid it in the
(I lap of Mrs. M. H. Fletcher; passed flowers to another person; and then,
S j with a bunch of feathers which she held in her han4, she touched
) j, several persons; She seemed to possess considerable animation, and was
c i evidently a very strong form. The form of a young man was then pro-
) | duced, and recognised by Mrs. Stanchfield as that of her adopted son
) i Theodore, who died twelve years ago. He had a dark moustache, and
j | was dressed in brown pants, white shirt, with a dark coloured vest. The
i ] fifteenth form was that of a female, and shortly before she made her
>! appearance the cough peculiar to consumptives was heard. The figure
[ j was that of a tall, thin woman, and was easily recognised as that of
Lj Mary Mason, who died in Fairfield, Me., years ago, of consumption.
' The curtain was again opened, and a spirit-form, with a baby in its
j | lap, beside the medium, was shown. Shortly afterwards two'faces were
11 shown at the aperture in the curtain. The medium seemed to be
I j suffering, and could be heard groaning. By a rap it was known that a
[ | slate was wanted, on which was written, “ You folks come again.”
i1 j This ended the seance, as no more figures were shown.
II The time occupied was nearly three hours, and fifteen different forms
11 were seen, many appearing three or four times. There was a certain
11 similarity in the female figures, but there was something about each one
11 by which you could distinguish it. They were all dressed in some white
! | gauze material, and such a thing as a button or string was nowhere to
| be seen. The male forms were dissimilar, and one could easily Be dis¬
tinguished from another. For fully fifteen minutes after the last form
appeared the curtain remained down, the medium in the meantime
j groaning, and giving evidence of suffering considerable pain. "When the
j curtain was raised the medium was discovered sitting in the chair, and
j apparently physically exhausted. She seemed unconscious, and it was
! not until half an hour later that she could be removed to her room. The
| phenomena produced were certainly most wonderful. That the medium
| had not the assistance of any confederates, every one who was present
j will admit. "Whether the forms that appeared were disembodied spirits,
| the writer does not undertake to say. He has merely striven to give a
statement of the forms which appeared to the whole circle. The
medium and another form were distinctly seen at the same time on two
I occasions, and on another the medium and two other forms were seen.
If this was an illusion, it was certainly a most remarkable one. It is,
no doubt, hard to believe that the forms were spirits ; but whatever they
j were they had the appearance and took the form of spirits. Their re-
| cognition by people in the circle is another point to be considered,
although they may have been deceived by some fancied resemblance to
departed friends. The sceptics present, and there were several, the
! writer among the number, admit that the phenomena produced were
] something inexplicable, and though, not by any means acknowledging
! that the forms produced were those of disembodied spirits, they admit
| the effects produced were amazing and remarkable. During the entire
! seance Miss Messerve played and sang, which relieved in a great
! measure the tediousness of waiting.
Mrs. Pickering has recently given several highly successful seances in
Salem, but the one on Saturday night was as successful as any. She is
| in rather delicate health, and it was thought a short time ago that she
j would be compelled to relinquish giving seances, but lately her health
( has been improving. In some of her seances she remains outside the
cabinet and in full view of the beholders, and would have done so on
this occasion had the weather been more favourable for materialising
purposes. The fullest investigation is courted by Mrs. Pickering, and
| her husband is ready and willing to afford every one an opportunity to
| thoroughly examine and scrutinize.
“ Rifts in the Veil.”—The Harbinger of Light (Australia) says of
the new book Hifts in the Veil:—“We have often had occasion to
comment upon the unfairness of the press in its references to Spirit¬
ualism, the eagerness to publish its faults, its failings, the vagaries of
its ignorant adherents, and the follies of its parasites, at the same time
keeping its substance and its beauties studiously out of sight. The
book now before us is the antithesis of all this, being a collection of
spiritualistic gems and flowers, culled with care by the editor, Mr. W.
H. Harrison, who himself contributes two poems to the collection. The
selections of inspirational poetry from T. L. Harris, Lizzie Doten, and
Cora Tappan Richmond, are excellent; and the communications from
‘ Imperator,’ through the mediumship of ‘ M.A., Oxon.,’ are lucid and
philosophical. We have quoted from and commended the writings of
this spirit in previous numbers of the Harbinger. An essay on '* The
Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism,’ by Louisa Lowe, is in
keeping with the other parts of the book, brief and pithy. In an intro¬
duction, the editor mentions that a chief object in its compilation was
an attempt to abolish a prevalent idea that all messages given through
mediumship, when judged on their literary and intellectual merits, are
worthless. For this purpose the book is eminently adapted, and from
the absence of dogma and temperate tone of its contents, will be found
a useful book for Spiritualists to place in the hands of prejudiced
friends.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
R.—When detractors are at work, the best thing to do is to publish their
assertions, or to send the details to the person slandered. Truth never
fears daylight or publicity ; but those who vilify honourable people behind
their backs always crave for secrecy and darkness, a because their deeds
are evil.” It is a duty to expose such persons.
July 12, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of "W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by tbe Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
.standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Cd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEAROHESINTHEPHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical .phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
BLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision, events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them ; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals .were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ .
The Thinker. , , V. „ . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d,
. 16 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
7 6
7 6
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
, 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 0
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... fi
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .16
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hindi; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Oloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, IP. (7.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Hontgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of b, priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—NowfA Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II.—^Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—^Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—^Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX ^Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—^Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter Xll The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVl.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter xVlI.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to.
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
• ' London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-steeet.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Variey, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves hy rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin's discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, j£1 10s,
London: W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.@.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON), ’ ON
PSYCH OGRAPHY,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
synopsis op contents.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psycbography in the Past: Gnldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics,
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L.O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Ev idence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J,
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of,the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—^Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens*
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London: W. H. HARRISON, 38, Great Russell-street.
Price 6s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualise.
A useful hook to place In public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“O! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediums hipof
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakoi—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D .—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hahd. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe
W allace, F It.G. S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
 W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C. 
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 foi' Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
for distribution at public meetings,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will he
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 5, 1878.
NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATTIRE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS. 
LORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
EDO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of iiidigestion, use END’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, "Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
' shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. END’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “ nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
I^NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :•—
“Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known."
F^NO’S FRUIT SALT.— A Lady writes: —
-i « Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have'
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
' IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
ip which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or. foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.   
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION, OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease :—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever- anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
erleSs, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
nut very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have’ not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. — I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 80,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ END’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
8cle Agent for PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX,
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author. |
’ Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings,
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—0. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabao was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to AH Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col-
■ lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
\ Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
-Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the hook in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published- for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Oaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked abiUty.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
hut one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to he sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and tlie imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour... . They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is' well done.... Hound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific folUes which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of soUd sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome hook...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to he expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
WiUiam H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
weU-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeUng which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is * How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Bar.ham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generaUy comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News. «
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original," and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and Deauty; full of
Hvely imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts,” abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit ana'humqur ;Vand one
that inay he read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads', which
appeared in the columns of this paper ajshort .time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” ! [N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the . attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of. Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at,the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayorrsg,i,d that he
did not mind them.'] ... “It contains some very choice-poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gUt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor qf
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had hound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volujne, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensation*
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
• and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sjunpathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Person*
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
andPrevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions In
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—Th« Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasi*
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S nritual
World.
CHAPTER VUI: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animal* — SnaU Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Ciystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of'
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—^Predictions of Vafious Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.. Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XIInterest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^-Opposition to he Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in th# Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion 
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced oy Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley's Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of th
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Oases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cleyrg-
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVICurative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridgb & Co., at the
Holhorn-Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
