Becistered as a Newspaper.
&K© p% ^di^Kci5<-
&§£ (Dltat IttaMpf ^nmd^!tr toit^ Sphiiwalbm m ^nkm*
The SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street,
No. 319.—(Vox,. XIII.—No. 14.)
arontents.
How a “ Dead ’’ Girl returned to Earth, and Lived again
for Three Months ...  157
Epilepsy and Spirit Influence. By S. B. Brittan, M D. ... 160
Billy’s Bose. (Poetry) 161
The Spiritual Position of Misers. By Eugene Crowell, M.D. 162
Experimental Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doct. Sci. 163
Poetry:—Bibliolatry. By James Russell Lowell 165
Johnson and Byron on Spirits  165
Correspondence:—The Law of “ The Persistence of Vision”
Verified—Errata    165
The Influence of Inanimate Objects upon Certain Mesmeric
Sensitives 166
Mrs. Emma, Hardinge-Britten  166
The Pear of Death      166
Healing Mediumship  4 167
The Inspirational Powers of Rama Bai 167
The Abnormal Calculating Powers of the Late Mr. Bidder 167
Spiritualism in Paris  168
Public Mediums  168
Emanation. (Poetry.) 168
Answers to Correspondents 168
Paragraphs :—Emotional Eccentricities, 161; Messrs. Wil¬
liams and Rita at Amsterdam    ... 167
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics oj
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rriHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess 01
Caithness ; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massif,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church. (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies. D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; • Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A^LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Anpual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia, Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-PhilosopMcal Journal Office,
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branct Office.
LONDON : FEIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOR OCTOBER.
Friday, 4th.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 8<7j.—Special Council Meeting, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Ordinary Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 1 If ft.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ 18fft.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 pm.
Wednesday, 23r,<f.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 pm.
„ „ Soiree Committee, at 5.30 pm.
Friday, 25th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MR. and MISS DIETZ having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (“ One of
the most successful series ever known in London”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—the
West of England, during the first week in October; Scotland,
during November; the Midland Counties, early in December.
Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route. For par¬
ticulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, London,
S.W. Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture on
“ American Humour,” illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors.
Now Ready. Price 2s. 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY.
October.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Why must I do what is right ? By St. George Stock.
II.—Astrology, Ancient and Modem.
III.—Recent Investigations in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas.
IV.—Immaterialism at Brussels, By J. O. Earle.
V.—Inspiration and Symbolism. By Mrs. De Morgan.
■ VI.—James Hinton’s Philosophy.
VII.—Pilgrimages' in France. No. III.—Pontigny and the
Shrine of Saint Edmund. By Rev. H. N. Grimley.
VIII.—Bohme’s Seven Days of Creation—A Study. By A. A.
Watts.
IX.—Materialistic Mysticism.
Hutton on Scott’s Supematuralism—The Education of the
Feelings—Around the World with Dr. Peebles—Evolution.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
REYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fondS par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakoe, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: OSWALD MuTZE. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Brancn Office.
Just published, 2s. paper covers 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE : described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WANTED, by a SPIRITUALIST, a situa¬
tion as Collector or Timekeeper ; would take care of
offices. 25 years’ character, and good references. Address :
J. Cain, 8, Bloomfield-road, Burdett-road, Bow, E.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings,London, F.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m,
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 4, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.'W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld. Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1. Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs , 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond ®., M.s.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Biixton,
S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdonaall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honvwood Mrs.. 52, Wanyick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.E.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C , BaiTister-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
mad, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P.. Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , Lansrley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Ontram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.1
BInney, F A.. 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W, H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lvnwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59. Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Cbampion-hill.
Fitton. R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs. D. G.. 6. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinnine, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison. W. H-, 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Deiamere-orescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M-l.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road. Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A., 14, Wilton-road, Dalston.
Mi all, Rev. W., 71, Riohmond-road, Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W„ II, Mitre-eourt, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Relmefs, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Stravhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redclitfe-gardens, West Brompton,
Rtrawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. R.edcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell. 80. Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington,
walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leedn.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Cot i stantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Yeh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. La Tresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
Tames Mylne, Esq , Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pris Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de 1’Europe,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A,
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxel’es.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test. Esq., M.D.,Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-MU,
Croydon.
IsaacB. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
'Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epr^jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18,.Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
SocIedad’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Customs. 
THE TRIUMPH OF LOTE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion hook to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 6s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part L
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV- Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vaia.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth;
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 6s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientiflo subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., Ac. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office. London, W.O.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. J. j. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terraee, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N. 
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, Ac., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from lp.mt
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS.M.G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See pres#
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Clairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon place, Blooms <
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
V_y ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM AND CLAIR¬
VOYANCE.—Professor Adolphe Didier (33 years estab¬
lished) attends Patients and may be consulted at his residence
from 2 to 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
Consultations by letter.
MESMERIC HEALER.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante,'examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vemon-place, Blooms-
hury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
"VTOTICE.—M. FOX KANE receives friends
_Ll at 14, Southampton-row, London, Mondays, Wednes¬
days, and Fridays, from 2 to 5 p.m. A circle on reduced terms
on Tuesday and Thursday evenings, from 8 to 10.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISM© IN
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologiea di Niceford Filalete.
Published on the 15ih of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, vid Boglno, No. 23.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London Sihpkin, Marshall & Co.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 64., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
jl ft it|i{ ot tj|| anfl tJ ^{tojttnaSant.
No. 319.—Volume Thirteen; Number Pourteeji.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4th, 1878.
HOW A “DEAD” GIRL RETURNED TO EARTH AND (Jl
LIVED AGAIN FOR THREE MONTHS * | b
(Concluded.) i )
On May 7th, 1878, Mary called Mrs. Roff to a private j j
room, and there in tears told her that Lurancy Yennum was j j
coming back. She seemed very sad, and said she could not | <
tell whether Lnrancy was coming to stay or not; that if she I )
thought she was coming to stay, she would want to see j |:
Nervie and Dr. Alter and Allie, and bid them good-bye. She j j
sat down, closed her eyes, and in a few moments the change j j
took place and Lurancy had control of her own body. Look- | s
ing wildly around the room she anxiously asked : “ Where j j
am I ? I was never here before.” j ;
Mrs. Rolf replied : “You are at Mrs. Hoff’s, brought here j j
by Mary to cure your body.” I j
She cried and said : “ I want to go home.” ! >
Mrs. Roff asked her if she could stay till her folks were j |
sent for. | <
She replied : *f No.” j j
She was then asked if she felt any pain in her breast. [ |
(This was during the period that Mary was suffering from ! j
pain in the left breast.) ! j
She replied : “ No, but Mary did.” j |
In about five minutes the change was again made, and i (.
Mary came overjoyed to find herself permitted to return. j
The child seemed possessed of all the natural affection for | j
the family that a daughter and sister of fine feelings and j j
cultivated tastes might be supposed to possess after an | j
absence of twelve years, and she often took occasion to j j
demonstrate that affection by endearing names and kindly j |
words. When walking with Mrs. Alter, her sister “Nervie” j j I
as she called her, she would say, “Nervie, my only sister, put j j
your arm around me.” Or, “ Come, Nervie, put your arm | j
around me and we will take a little walk in the garden or the | j
grove, for I cannot be with you much longer, and I want to ! J
be with you every minute I can.” When Mrs. Alter would j|
ask her when or where she was going, she would say, u The |
angels tell me I am going to heaven, but I don’t know just j
when. 0, how I wish you could live here at home with us |
as you used to when I was here before.” She thought a j
great deal of Dr. Alter, the husband of her sister, but hardly |
seemed to realise that Nervie was married and had a family. 11
She said that when she got into that body she felt much as jf J
she did when she was born here twelve years ago. The new | j
body seemed as natural to her as though she had been born j |
with it, yet she could not do with it as she would like to. j j
She did not seem to realise at first but that this was her j j j
own original, physical body, until the angels explained it to j j j
her, and she had received information and instruction from j j
her parents, sister, brother, and friends about it. So natural j j
did it seem to her, after knowing all the facts, that she j |
could hardly feel it was not her original body born nearly j |
thirty years ago. j j
In conversation with the writer about her former life, she j | j
spoke of cutting her arm, as heretofore stated, and asked if m
he ever saw where she did it. On receiving a negative | j
answer, she proceeded to slip up her sleeve, as if to exhibit j) |
the scar, but suddenly arrested the movement, as if by a j j
sudden thought, and quickly said, “ Oh! this is not the arm; m
that one is in the ground,” and proceeded to tell where it j j j
was buried, how she saw it done, who stood around, and how j !
they felt, but she did not then feel bad. I heard her tell j j
Mr. Roff and the friends present how she wrote to him a j j j
message some years ago through the hand of a medium, j (!
giving name, time, and place; also of rapping and of spelling j | j
out a message by another medium, giving time, name, and I j
place, which the parents admitted to be all true. I heard j |
* Slightly abridged from recent numbers of the Religio-Philosophical Journal, of I j ;
Chicago 'u;
her relate a story of her going into the country with
the men, some twenty odd years ago, after a load of hay
naming incidents that occurred on the road, which two o
the gentlemen distinctly remembered.
In one of those beautiful trances which rendered her
entirely oblivious to all physical surroundings, but in a
state of happy ecstasy, and, so far as manners and move¬
ments were concerned, perfectly normal and graceful, with
visions and senses fully open, she went to heaven, as she
called it, in company with another young lady in like condition,
whose name must be reserved until the wonderful history she
is making shall be made public by the consent of all. They
saw and conversed about the beautiful .scenes before them,
pointing out individuals, giving names, relationship, his¬
tories, facts, and describing places and things. Mary pointed
out and described some with titles of royalty, such as Mary
Queen of Scots, Henry IV., King of France, and others of
equal note, showing either rich biographical and historical
reading or experience and acquaintance in spirit-life. Then
bowing low, and kneeling with hands folded and heads
together, as if in the most devout and solemn devotion, they
remained in listening silence for some time, then rising, the
unnamed girl said—“He came to bless, didn’t he, Mary?
a bright, beautiful angel.”
After talking of the different classes they were observing,
and the “ lovely children,” Mary seemed to take in her arms
a very little, tender infant, and said—“ This is sister Ner-
vie’s baby; how sweet and beautiful it is; don’t you think
it is a sweet little angel ?” The other, in softest accents,
said—“Yes, but it seems to me they are all too pure to be
touched by such as we,” and after some time the babe was
carefully handed back to the care of the angels. Mrs. Alter,
who was present, had recently lost by death a beautiful babe,
and had scarcely recovered from her confinement. The whole
scene was one of uncommon interest, affecting and impres¬
sive beyond description.
For the discovery of facts unknown to others, Mary seemed
remarkably developed. One afternoon she, with much con¬
cern, declared that her brother Frank must be carefully
watched the coming night, for he would be taken sick, and
would die if not properly cared for. At the time of this
announcement he was in his usual health, and engaged with
the Roff Brothers’ band of music up town. The same even¬
ing Dr. Stevens had been in to see the family, and on leaving
was to go directly to Mrs. Hawks, far off in the Old Town,
and the family so understood it. But about nine and a half
o’clock the same evening Dr. Stevens returned unannounced
to Mr. Marsh’s, Mr. Roff’s next neighbour, for the night.
At two o’clock in the morning Frank was attacked with
something like a spasm and congestive chill, which almost
destroyed his consciousness. Mary at once saw the situa¬
tion, as predicted, and said, “ Send to Mrs. Marsh’s for Dr.
Stevens.” “No. Dr. Stevens is at Old Town,” said the
family. “ No,” said Mary, “ he is at Mr. Marsh’s; go quick
for him, pa.” Mr. Roff called, and the doctor, as Mary
said, was at Mr. Marsh’s. On his arrival at the sick bed,
Mary had entire control of the case. She had made Mrs.
Roff sit down, had provided hot water and cloths and other
necessaries, and was doing all that could be done for Frank.
The doctor seconded her efforts, and allowed her to continue.
She saved her brother, but never made a move after the
doctor’s arrival without his co-operation and advice.
Mary often spoke of seeing the children of Dr. Stevens in
heaven. She said she was with them much, and went to
his home with him. She correctly described his home, the
rooms, furniture, gave names and ages of his children, and
as evidence of her truthfulness, told of a remarkable ex¬
perience of Mrs. E. M. Wood, one of the doctor’s married
daughters, which, on account of its peculiar features, and
158
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 4, 1878.
the faith of some of the relatives, is not for the public, yet j 11
was a beautiful evidence of angel guardianship. She stated j | j
the story minutely, saying where and when she obtained ! |
Mrs. Wood’s name, for she was present with others she |||
named. | j I
The doctor’s daughter, Emma Angelia, who had been in j j
spirit-life since March 10th, 1849, sought through Mary to j j
take the body she was controlling and go home with her | j
father to Wisconsin, to visit the family for a week, and Mary j j
was disposed to let her do it; she asked Mr. and Mrs. Roff | j
if she should let Emma Stevens have the body for a week j j
to go with her father to see and be with her mother, sisters, | |
and brother, so they could realise it to be Emma. But no j j
one thought it advisable. 14
To show the ease with which Mary controls, or goes in | j
and out, as it is said, and the perfect medium the body of j j
Lurancy is, a single instance will sufSce. On the 21st day j j
of April, in the parlours of Mrs. Roflf, in the presence of j j
Mr. and Mrs. RofF, their hired woman Charlotte, Doctor I j
Steel and wife, Mrs. Twing, of Oregon, Mrs. Alter, Mr. and ! j
Mrs. M , and the writer, manifestations of a peculiar j j
character occurred. Mary being the last one to join the j j
company in the parlour, took the only vacant seat, next a jl
gentleman friend. Dr. Steel became influenced by a brother j |
of one of the persons present, and made a striking address, jj J
On his becoming disentranced and entering into the general j j I
conversation, Mary voluntarily disembodied her controlling | j
power, and leaving the girl’s form like a corpse, with the ! j
head resting against the shoulder of her friend, immediately j j
took control of Dr. Steel, and in every possible way required, | j
proved it to be herself; she then, through that manly form, j j
turned in a jovial way and laughed at the position of the | j
seemingly untenanted body and its limp condition, with a j
pleasant jest at the friend who supported it. She soon, |
however, returned to her own proper control, and seemed to I
enjoy the trick she had played, in the control of the gentle- I
man. j
After a few moments she called to the hired woman to j
follow her, and they left the room. Soon she returned clad I j
in an old-fashioned way, with gown, cap, cape, and spec- j j
tacles, leaning on the arm of Charlotte as if bowed down j
with many years. Not one trace of the girl could be seen j j
save in the youthful skin of the face. Taking a seat in the j j
old arm chair, she began to talk as an old lady of olden j j
times might be supposed to do, representing herself to be j j
the grandmother of Charlotte, giving her name, inquiring j j
after all the relatives, old and young, asking by name for If
those belonging to families the girl could have known j j
nothing about. She said she died of a cancer near the right j j
eye and temple ; called for tepid water and soft cloth, which 11 j
being furnished, proceeded in the most natural manner to m
bathe and dress the cancer. She called for food and ate it, i j j
apparently without teeth, smoked after it, as she used to do, j j j
because her food always hurt her if she did not. She asked j j
for knitting work, and she found fault because the knitter j |
did not know how to knit. She next asked for mending ! j j
and other things to do, looked at the fabric of the ladies’ j}!
dresses, asking the prices. She looked out at the windows, | [ j
remarked how pleasant a place it was, and so continued for 111
a full hour, never for a moment showing any sign of decep- 11 j
tion, but appearing to be a veritable, honest, experienced j f j
domestic old lady. Numerous other personations might be I j
described, but this is sufficient. ! 11
During her stay at Mrs. Roff’s her physical condition con- j f I
tinually improved, under the care and treatment of her sup- j j!
posed parents and the advice and help of her physician, m
She was obedient to the government and rules of the family, j j j
and, like a careful and wise child, always kept in the com- I (j
pany of some of the family, unless when visiting the nearest j > i
neighbours across the street. She was often invited and j j I
went with Mrs. Roff to visit the first families in the city, j j j
who soon became satisfied that the girl was not crazy, but a j 11
fine, well-mannered child. < j
The manner in which she acted for a considerable time 111
after coming into Mr. Roff’s family was very strange to many. I) j
Sitting down to the tea-table on one occasion, Mrs. Roff 11 ]
asked: “ Now, Mary, what shall I help you to ? ” j (j
She answered : “Oh, nothing, I thank you, ma, I’ll goto ! j j
heaven for my tea.” : ‘1
Suiting the action to the word, off she went into a quiet
trance, or i to heaven,” as she termed it, and so remained
till the family had eaten, when she returned to her normal
state. Being again asked she said she had been to tea, and
the question was put: ‘ ‘ Mary, what do you eat, and how do
you eat it ?”
Her answer was : “ Oh, ma, if I could tell, you could not
understand it.”
And thus for some time she only ate in that way, except a
very little occasionally, to pacify the anxious family. As her
system became in better condition she ate more freely, and
for many weeks toward the last she ate, drank, and slept as a
healthy person should.
As the time drew near for the restoration of Lurancy to her
parents and home, Mary would sometimes seem to recede
into the memory and manner of Lurancy for a little time, yet
not enough to lose her identity or permit the manifestation
of Lurancy’s mind, but enough to show she was impressing
her presence upon her own body.
On being asked, “ Where is Lurancy ?” she would say,
“ Gone out somewhere,” or, “ She is in heaven taking lessons,
and I am here taking lessons too.”
On Sunday, May 19th, at about half-past four o’clock p.m.,
Mr. Roff and Mary were sitting in the parlour, and Henry
Yennum, Lurancy’s brother, was in the sitting room, with
another room and hall between. Mary left control, and
Lurancy took full possession of her own body. Henry was
called in and she caught him around his neck, kissed and
wept over him, causing all present to weep. At this juncture
Mr. Roff was called and asked Lurancy if she could stay till
Henry could go and bring her mother (she had expressed a
desire to go and see her father and mother). She said
ie No,” but if Henry would go and bring her, she would come
again and talk with her. She immediately left and Mary
came again. When Mary was asked where she had been,
she replied, “ I have seen Doctor Stevens, and he looks as
well as ever again.”
Mrs. Yennum was brought within an hour, and on her
arrival, Lurancy came into full control, when one of the most
affecting scenes ever witnessed took place. Mother and
daughter embraced and kissed each other, and wept until all
present shed tears of sympathy.
On the morning of May 21st, Mr. Roff wrote as follows :
u Mary is to leave the body to-day, about eleven o’clock, so
she says. She is bidding neighbours and friends good-bye.
Raney is to return home all right to-day. Mary came from
her room upstairs, where she was sleeping with Lottie, at ten
o’clock last night, lay down by us, hugged and kissed us, and
cried because she must bid us good-bye, telling us to give all
her pictures, marbles, and cards, and twenty-five cents Mrs.
Yennum had given her, to Raney, and made us promise to
visit Raney often. She tells me to write to Dr. Stevens as
follows: ‘ Tell him I am going to heaven, and Raney is
coming home well. She says she will see his dear children
in spirit-life; says she saw him on Sunday last.’ . . . She
said last night, weeping, ‘ Oh, pa, I am going to heaven to¬
morrow, at eleven o’clock, and Raney is coming back cured,
and going home all right.’ She talked most lovingly about
the separation, and most beautiful was her talk about heaven
and her home.”
Mrs. Alter writes : ee When the day came, and the angels
told Mary that Lurancy was coming to take full possession
of her own body, it seemed to make her feel very sad. She
went to the residences of Mr. L. 0. Marsh and Mr. M.
Hoober to say good-by, telling them the angels had said
the body was cured, and Lurancy was coming to go home
and live with her parents again all well. She said: ‘ I feel
sad at parting with you all, for you have treated me so
kindly; you have helped by your sympathy to cure this
body, and Raney can come and inhabit it.’ ”
This shows that the angels can help the children of earth.
Mr. M. Hoober, a pious Christian gentleman, who loved
Mary for her sweet influence in his family, came into the
room and asked if she would like to sing with him and his
good wife ? She said: “ Yes, I am so sad ; but when I
go to heaven all tears will be wiped away, and I shall be
happy.”
After singing, they all knelt down, and Mr. Hoober made
an affecting prayer, saying, “ If it can be that an angel is
Oct. 4, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
159
in our midst, and about to leave us and go and join her own
in spirit-life, will God in his goodness allow her to bear a
message of love to my own angel father and loved ones,
who may, for all we can see, be hovering around our house¬
hold at this moment.”
When eleven o’clock came she seemed loth to go or to
let Raney come back. Mrs. Alter started to go home, and
Mary started with her. When in the yard, Mrs. Alter said,
“ Mary, you have always done as you said you would, but
as I don’t understand these things, will you please let
Lurancy come back just now, and then you can come
again if you want to.” Mary said, u Yes, I will,” and she
kissed mother and sister good-by.
A voice said, “ Why, Mrs. Alter, where are you going ? ”
Then, in a breath,ct Oh, yes, I know ; Mary told me ! ”
On the way they met Mrs. Marsh and Mrs. Hoober, who
were the nearest neighbours, and Mary’s favourite friends ;
Lurancy did not seem to know them, but remarked, “ Mary
thinks so much of these neighbours.” Then, turning to Mrs.
Alter, with whom Lurancy had been but slightly acquainted
two years ago, she said, i( Mrs. Alter, Mary can come and
talk to you nearly all the way home, if you want her to, and
then I will come back.”
The change was again made, and Mary said, “ I love to
be with you so much.”
The final change now took place at the time predicted, and
Lurancy stated that she felt as though she had been asleep,
yet she knew she had not. On reaching Mr. Rolf’s office,
she addressed him as Mr. Rolf, and asked if he would take
her home, which he did.
May 22nd, Mr. Rolf wrote to me as follows : (t Thank
God and the good angels, the dead is alive and the lost is
found. I mailed you a letter yesterday at half-past ten o’clock
a.m., stating that Mary had told us she would go away and
Raney return at eleven o’clock the 21st of May. At half¬
past eleven o’clock a.m., Minerva called at my office with
Raney Vennum, and wanted me to take her home, which I
did. She called me Rolf, and talked with me as a young
girl would, not being acquainted. I asked her how things
appeared to her—if they seemed natural ? She said it
seemed like a dream to her. She met her parents and
brothers in an affectionate manner, hugging and kissing
each one with tears of gladness. She clasped her arms
around her father’s neck a long time, fairly smothering him
with kisses. I saw her father just now (eleven o’clock).
He says she has been perfectly natural, and seems entirely
well. You see my faith in writing to you yesterday morning
instead of waiting till she came.”
The WatseAa Republican says:—
The meeting with her parents at the home was very affecting, and
now she seems to be a healthy, happy little girl, going about noting
things she saw before she was stricken, and recognises changes that
have since taken place. This is a remarkable case, and the fact that
we cannot understand such things does not do away with the existence
of these unaccountable manifestations.
The Danville (III.) Times, in speaking of this case says :—
Mr. and Mrs. Hoff are Spiritualists, and stoutly maintain that their
daughter’s ability to penetrate closed books and letters in the manner
indicated was imparted by the inhabitants of an unseen world. We
have no fixed opinion as to whether Spiritualism is false or true. Certain
it is that occurrences are upon record which are hard to explain upon
any natural hypothesis but those attributable to spirits’ aid. Let those
say who know, for we do not. In spite of all opposition, Spiritualists
have increased in numbers; nor are they confined to the illiterate
classes, but embrace poets, scholars, and statesmen. Let us hope the
unharmful truth will early assert a glorious reign, and illuminate the
darkened understanding of men.
The Iroquois County (III.) Times, under the head of
“ Mesmeric Mysteries,” and in reference to Lurancy Yennum,
says :—
Mr. and Mrs. Hoff kindly offered to take charge of her until her mind
should change, and she should become well again. She went there in
February, and remained till about three weeks ago. Since then she
has been Lurancy Vennum, and is healthy and full of intelligence. . ..
It was hard for even the most sceptical not to believe there was some¬
thing supernatural about her. If she was not prompted by the spirit of :.
Mary Hoff, how could she know so much about the family, people with i (
whom she was not acquainted, and whom she had never visited ? . . . j j
No stranger would have suspected her of being the victim of disease, j j
though her eyes were unusually bright. .. . There are yet numberless j j
mysteries in this world, though science has dissipated many wonders, j /
and philosophy has made plain many marvels. There is much that is j j
unaccountable in the action of Spiritualistic mediums, and they do many ‘ ‘
things that puzzle the greatest philosophers. Sceptical and unbelieving
as we are, and slight as our experience has been, we have seen enough
to convince us that Spiritualism is not all humbug. The case of
Lurancy Vennum, a bright young girl of fourteen years, has been the
subject of much discussion in Watseka during the past year, and there
is a good deal in it beyond human comprehension.
On the 25th of June she wrote a letter to me by the con¬
sent of her friends saying among other things :—
Dear Doctok,—I am feeling quite well to-day. I was up to Mrs.
Alter’s to-day ; she is very well at present. This afternoon I called at
Mr. Hoff’s office, and had quite a long talk with him, but of course it
was about the loving angels that you and I love so well. Let them twine
around your neck their arms, and press upon your brow their kiss. . . .
Well, Doctor, you have many dear friends in this city who love you
much. I saw Mrs. M . She said she would have died if it had not
been for you, and you know about Mrs. I . We know you saved her
life. . . . Kiss your loving wife for me, and tell her we shall all meet in
heaven if not on earth. ... I shall visit Mrs. Hoff to-morrow. . . .
I shall have my picture taken, and send it to you in my next letter. I
get up early and take the morning air. I should like to have you write
a line to me.—Your friend, Lurancy Vennum.
This letter, written in pencil, is very different in its make¬
up and penmanship from those written by the same hand,
signed by Mary Roff, and gives evidence of another mind.
Since penning the foregoing article, the writer has received
the following letter from the mother of Lurancy, through
the politeness of Mr. Roff:—
Watseka, 111., July 9th, 1878.
Dear Friend,—Mary L. Vennum is perfectly and entirely well,
and perfecty natural. For two or three weeks after her return home
she seemed a little strange to what she had been before she was taken
sick last summer, but only, perhaps, the natural change that had taken
place with the girl. Lurancy has been smarter, more intelligent, more
industrious, more womanly, and more polite than before. We give the
credit of her complete cure to her family, to Dr. E. W. Stevens, and Mr.
and Mrs. Hoff, by their obtaining her removal to Mr. Hoff’s, where her
cure was perfected. We firmly believe that had she remained at home
she would have died, or we would have been obliged to send her to the
insane asylum, and if so, that she would have died there. Several of
the relatives of Mary Lurancy, including ourselves, now believe she was
cured by spirit power, and that Mary Hoff controlled the girl.—Mrs.
Lurinda Vennum.
On the 10th of July Mr. Roff writes :—
Dear Doctor,—Mr. Vennum is out of town, but I have often talked
with him, and I know his opinion, often expressed, that Lurancy and
her mother would both have died if we had not taken the girl; he gives
all credit to yourself and us for it. He believes it was spirit agency
that did the work. Lurancy is in perfect health, and “ much more
womanly than before ” (so her mother says). She says she used to
romp and play with her brothers, and with the horses. Now she is
steady; you can hardly imagine how the dear girl loves those who saved
her. She sends you a letter to-day, but thinks it a little strange you
have not answered her last letter.—Yours, &c., A. B. Hoff.
On the evening of the 16th of July, 1878, in the parlours
of Asa B. Roff and his wife, we, the undersigned, met and
listened to the careful reading and consideration of the fore¬
going narrative, and declare it to be entirely true and correct-
in every respect; and further, that now after eight weeks of
home life, Lurancy Yennum remains well and sound in body
and mind.
Asa B. Roff, Thomas J. Yennum,
Ann Roff, Lurinda Vennum.
Watseka, Iroquois Go., 111., July 8tli, 1878.
Mrs. Roff writes to the Religio-Philosophical Journal
(Chicago) :—
I furnished Dr. Stevens with all the material facts in the case, except
such as were within his own knowledge. The history of the Vennum
family (and Lurancy’s condition up to the time he and I went to see her,
June 31st), I obtained from the members thereof and the neighbours
intimately acquainted with them. The narrative, as written by Dr.
Stevens, is substantially true in every part and particular, yet the half
has not been told, and never can be; it is impossible for pen to describe
or language portray the wonderful events of that memorable fourteen
weeks the girl was at our house. The material facts of the case can be
substantiated by disinterested witnesses, whose veracity cannot be
questioned, and whose evidence would settle any case in a court of
law. I refer you to Robert Doyle, Chas. Sherman, S. R. Hawks, Lile
Marsh, J. M. Hoober, and their wives, and to Mrs. Mary Wagner,
formerly Mary Lord, all residents of Watseka. As to “ collusion,”
“arrangement,” or “ourselves being deceived,” that is simply im¬
possible, as you will see if you carefully read the whole narrative over
again. Let those who doubt or disbelieve the “ strange, mysterious,
and wonderful story,” call to mind Lurancy’s condition at her home last
January, surrounded with all the kind care of parents, friends, and
physicians, everything done to alleviate her suffering and perform a cure
that human minds and hands could possibly do, yet growing continually
worse (if that were possible), given up by her physicians, her friends,
without a ray of hope, the insane asylum ready to receive her, a con¬
dition terrible to behold ! Then view her condition from May 21st until
160
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 4, 1878.
to-day, over three months, a bright, beautiful, happy, healthy girl, and
then tell me what produced the change. The narrative furnishes the
facts; account for them if you can on any other hypothesis than power
exercised through or by the spirit of Mary Roff having control of
Lurancy’s body.
I am now sixty years old; have resided in Iroquois county thirty
years, and would not now sacrifice what reputation I may have by being
a party to the publication of such a narrative, if it were not perfectly
true. If any should desire testimonials of my standing, Col. Bundy
has some to use as he deems best.
Watseka, 111., Aug. 23rd, 1878.
EPILEPSY AND SPIRIT INFLUENCE.
BY S. B. BRITTAN, M.D.
I will briefly define the nature of catalepsis, or catalepsy.
In this disease sensation and all the voluntary faculties and
functions of mind and body are suddenly arrested. The
organs of involuntary motion usually continue their func¬
tions ; the heart and lungs moving in ordinary cases, the
former with an accelerated action and diminished power.
It is also characterised by unusual rigidity of the muscles.
The body and limbs, though stiff and statue-like, may be
moved by the effort of another, and they retain the posture
in which they are left, however unnatural and uneasy the
position. The particular expression on the face at the
moment of the attack is liable to remain. The paroxysm
varies in the degrees of intensity in different patients; and
the time that may transpire before the restoration to the
normal condition is altogether uncertain. In profound states
of catcdepsis all outward signs of life sometimes disappear ;
the processes of the animal chemistry cease, and the trance
may continue for weeks. In this state of suspended anima¬
tion many persons have been buried alive, or before the
spirit had severed its connection with the body.
I have neither the time nor space to attempt an exhaustive
treatment of the subject, much as society needs a complete
philosophy of its material facts and essential laws. My
exposition of the causes and aspects of these forms of disease
must be general. I do not propose a critical classification
of the symptomatic phenomena, whether physical or psycho¬
logical ; nor is it my purpose to consider the means and
methods to be employed in the treatment of the same. It
is rather my present design to call attention to a profound
but much neglected subject, which, however, most deeply
concerns the public welfare. Beyond this, I desire to show
that the abnormal conditions and startling phenomena
under consideration may and do result from causes resident
in both the material and spiritual worlds. Even when an
attack of either epilepsy or catalepsy is precipitated by purely
organic conditions and physical causes, the subsequent state
and its phenomenal aspects are very likely to be complicated
by the play of psychological forces and the interposition of
spiritual visitors.
It is natural that the spirits whose lives on earth were cut
short by either acts of violence or the supervention of disease
should have a desire to continue the career that terminated
prematurely. In like manner, all who are conscious of
having neglected their opportunities in this world must
desire to finish up the incomplete work of this rudimental
life. Those who have committed great wrongs on earth
may be forced back by a law of the moral constitution, or
from an irresistible impulse to undo the mischief of their
hands—to the scenes of the ruin they have made. Such
spirits—reviewing the records of their lives, imperishable
for ever in the memory—earnestly seeking relief from igno¬
rance and unhappiness, may seize on any poor, helpless
mortal in the hope of deriving some satisfaction from
a temporary renewal of the former relations. Filled with
recollections of time wasted—a life madly sacrificed, or at
best disorderly and profitless—they are liable to derange the
body and mind of any delicate subject who may willingly or
otherwise yield to their influence. In all this we are not, as
a rule, authorised to infer that the spirits are maliciously
disposed. It may sufSce that they are ignorant and clumsy,
to account for the disorderly results of their influence.
Should a common tinker attempt to manipulate a fine chro¬
nometer, he would be sure to derange its action. The man
II who has never handled anything more delicate than chain
cables could never tune my lady’s harp. An ignorant mes¬
merist, with strong passions, an unsuitable temperament,
and unbalanced brain, might derange and upset the nervous
system of a sensitive girl, and so may an ignorant spirit,
| who has not yet recovered from the similar imperfections of
the life on earth.
The careful reader of the New Testament will have ob¬
served, not only cases of vital and mental derangement—
| corresponding in all their essential features to the foregoing
analysis of epilepsy and catalepsy—were of frequent occur¬
rence, but, also, that they were invariably ascribed to the
j agency of demons or spirits. Among the Greeks a demon
| was not always regarded as an evil spirit. The word was
not understood to either express or imply anything in respect
I to his moral qualities. The ancients believed in both good
and evil demons, or spirits of men. When, therefore, we
| translate the word into English, and call the Demon of the
| Greek Scripture a devil, we neither change his nature nor
acquire a right to defame his character. We cannot make
I a good spirit evil by giving him a bad name. Those only
who produced unhappy effects were characterised as (l un-
| clean spirits ; ” by which we may understand spirits wanting
I intelligence and a high moral purpose. It was an im-
! poitant part of the business of the early Evangelical teachers,
I under the apostolic commission, to cast out the spirits whose
influence was detrimental.
The fact cannot be disputed that the different classes of
demons referred to by the early Greeks embraced u the dis¬
embodied spirits of the dead, without respect to their moral
j qualities,” and they appear to have been “ the favourite
sources of information.” The distinction between two
! general classes is clearly made in the following passage by
j a learned author:—
i( There is also a second class of demons, namely: the
[ souls of those who having lived meritoriously have departed
| from the body. Such a soul I find called in the ancient
Latin tongue Lemur. Of these Lemures, he, who having
obtained by lot the guardianship of his posterity, presides
over the house with a quiet and placable superintendence,
is called the household Lar. But those who, on account of
a vicious life, having obtained no happy seats, are a sort of
vagabonds, or are punished by a kind of exile, and who in¬
flict idle terrors upon good men, but more real evils upon
the wicked—this kind is commonly called Larvce.”—Apo-
catastasis, p. 89.
The narratives of the Evangelists contain many references
to the agency of spirits in the transfiguration of mortals,
and in modifying human feeling, thought, and conduct.
For the time being, and as long as the spirit maintained
the ascendency over the medium, the former often governed
the volition and action of the latter. As I am treating the
subject in its relation to certain forms of disease, I shall
make my citations from the Christian Scriptures with a
special view to the illustration of that relation, and the
power of spirits to damage the organic action of mind and
body. I will here introduce examples which will exhibit
their demeanour and show the manner in which they
handled their subjects. It is related that while Jesus was
teaching in a synagogue in Capernaum, that there was a
man present who had a an unclean spirit.” The medium
while under this influence was inclined to be noisy. He
discovered the name and character of the Teacher, and in a
declamatory style insisted on being let alone.
il And Jesus rebuked him saying, 1 Hold thy peace and
come out of him.’ And when the unclean spirit had torn
him, and cried out in a loud voice, he came out of him.”
(Mark, chap, i., 25, 26.)
When Jesus was coming out of a ship in which He had
just crossed the sea of Galilee:—
li Immediately there met Him out of the tombs a man
with an unclean spirit, who had his dwelling among the
tombs; and no man could bind him, no, not with chains.
. . . He had been often bound with fetters and chains,
and the chains had been plucked asunder by him, and the
fetters broken in pieces: neither could any man tame him.
And always, night and day, he was in the mountains, and
in the tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones.”
This spirit was rather boisterous in his recognition of the
Oct. 4, 1878.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
161
man who was about to exorcise him. While the man was
under the influence of this spirit, Jesus ashed for his name,
whereupon the spirit a answered, saying, 4 My name is
Legion; for we are many.’ ” (Mark, chap. v. 2—9.)
It is recorded that as Jesus descended from the mountain,
after His transfiguration, a man brought his only child to
Him, whose case is thus described :—
“ And, lo a spirit taketh him, and he suddenly cried out;
and it teareth him that he foameth again, and bruising him,
hardly departeth from him. ... And as he was yet coming
the devil threw him down, and tore him. And Jesus re¬
buked the unclean spirit, and healed the child.” (Luke,
chap. ix. 38—41.)
The following is a very accurate description of the general
phenomena which accompany an attack of the disease known
as epilepsy:—
“ And one of the multitude said, { Master, I have brought
unto Thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit; and whereso¬
ever he taketh him he teareth him, and he foameth, and
gnasheth with his teeth, andpineth away’. . . . And when he
saw Him, straightway the spirit tore him; and he fell to the
ground and wallowed, foaming. . . . ‘And ofttimes it
hath cast him into the fire, and into the waters to destroy
him’. . . . Jesus rebuked the foul spirit, saying unto him,
* Dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee come out of him, and
enter no more into him.’ And the spirit cried and rent
him sore, and came out of him ; and he was as one dead;
insomuch that many said, ‘ He is dead.’ ” (Mark, chap. ix.
17—26.)
It would seem from this description that the paroxysm
was followed by a state of suspended animation. It is to
be observed that this is not usually the case in epilepsy.
The convulsion is followed by great general prostration—
clearly enough indicated in the Evangelical description by
the words, “ and pineth away.” In all ordinary cases the
respiratory movement continues, and the process of the
aeration of the blood goes on with only partial interruption.
During the continuance of the paroxysm, as a rule the
respiration is heavy and difficult, while the heart’s action is
quick and strong, but not rhythmical; the systole and
diastole occurring at irregular intervals.—Religio-Philoso-
phical Journal.
BILLY’S ROSE.
The following lines by “ Dagonet ” are quoted from The Heferee
newspaper by permission of the proprietors of that journal:—
Billy’s dead and gone to glory—so is Billy’s sister Nell;
There’s a tale I know about them were I poet I would tell;
Soft it comes, with perfume laden, like a breath of country air
Wafted down the filthy alley, bringing fragrant odours there.
In that vile and filthy alley, long ago one winter’s day,
Dying quick of want and fever, hapless, patient Billy lay.
While beside him sat his sister, in the garret’s dismal gloom,
Cheering with her gentle presence Billy’s pathway to the tomb.
Many a tale of elf and fairy did she tell the dying child,
Till his eyes lost half their anguish, and her worn, wan features smiled;
Tales herself had heard haphazard, caught amid the Babel roar,
Lisped about by tiny gossips playing at their mothers’ door.
Then she felt his wasted fingers tighten feebly as she told
How beyond this dismal alley lay a land of shining gold,
Where, when all the pain was over—where, when all the tears were
shed—
He would be a white-frocked angel, with a gold thing on his head.
Then she told some garbled story of a kind-eyed Saviour’s love,
How He’d built for little children great big playgrounds up above,
Where they sang and played at hop-scotch and at horses all the day,
And where beadles and policemen never frightened them away.
This was Nell’s idea of heaven—just a bit of what she’d heard.
With a little bit invented, and a little bit inferred ;
But her brother lay and listened, and he seemed to understand,
For he closed his eyes and murmured he could see the Promised Land.
“ Yes,” he whispered, “ I can see it—I can see it, sister Nell;
Oh, the children look so happy, and they’re all so strong and well;
I can see them there with Jesus—He is playing with them, too !
Let us run away and join them, if there’s room for me and you.”
She was eight, this little maiden, and her life had all been spent
In the garret and the alley, where they starved to pay the rent ^
Where a drunken father’s curses and a drunken mother’s blows
Drove her forth into the gutter from the day’s dawn to. its close.
!But she knew enough, this outcast, just to tell the sinking boy,
“ You must die before you’re able all these blessings to enjoy.
You must die,” she whispered, “ Billy, and I am not even ill;
But I’ll come to you, dear brother—yes, I promise that I will.
“ You are dying little brother—you are dying, oh, so fast;
I heard father say to mother that he knew you couldn’t last.
They will put you in a coffin, then you’ll wake and be up there,
While I’m left alone to suffer in this garret bleak and bare.”
“ Yes, I know it,” answered Billy. “ Ah, but sister, I don’t mind,
G-entle Jesus will not beat me : He’s not cruel or unkind.
But I can’t help thinking, Nelly, I should like to take away
Something, sister, that you gave me, I might look at every day.
u In the summer you remember how the mission took us out
To a great green lovely meadow, where we played and ran about,
And the van that took us halted by a sweet white patch of land,
Where the fine red blossoms grew, dear, half as big as mother’s hand.
“ Nell, I asked the good kind teacher what they call such flowers as
those,
And he told me, I remember, that the pretty name was rose.
I have never seen them since, dear—how I wish that I had one !
Just to keep and think of you, Nell, when I’m up beyond the sun.”
Not a word said little Nelly; but at night when Billy slept,
On she flung her scanty garments, and then down the stairs she crept.
Through the silent streets of London she ran nimbly as a fawn,
Running on and running ever till the night had changed to dawn.
When the foggy sun had risen, and the mist had cleared away,
All around her, rapt in snowdrift, there the open country lay !
She was tired, her limbs were frozen, and the roads had cut her feet,
But there came no flowery gardens her keen hungry eyes to greet.
She had traced the road by asking—she had learnt the way to go;
She had found the famous meadow—it was wrapped in cruel snow ;
Not a buttercup or daisy, not a single verdant blade
Showed its head above its prison. Then she knelt her down and prayed.
| With her eyes upcast to heaven, down she sank upon the ground,
| And she prayed to God to tell her where the roses might be found.
Then the cold blast numbed her senses, and her sight grew strangely
dim;
And a sudden, awful tremor seemed to rack her every limb.
| “ Oh, a rose!” she moaned, *.? Good Jesus—just a rose to take to Bill 1”
| And as she prayed a chariot came thundering down the hill;
I And a lady sat there, toying with a red rose, rare and sweet;
j As she paused she flung it from her, and it fell at Nelly’s feet.
j Just a word her lord had spoken caused her ladyship to fret,
And the rose had been his present, so she flung it in a pet;
I But the poor half-blinded Nelly thought it fallen from the skies,
And she murmured, “ Thank you, Jesus ! ” as she clasped the dainty
prize.
j Lo that night from out the alley did a child’s soul pass away ;
From dirt and sin and misery to where God’s children play.
j Lo that night a wild, fierce snowstorm burst in fury o’er the land,
I And at morn they found Nell frozen, with the red rose in her hand.
j Billy’s dead, and gone to glory—so is Billy’s sister Nell;
| Am I bold to say this happened in the land where angel’s dwell:—
I That the children met in heaven, after all their earthly woes,
And that Nelly kissed her brother, and said, “Billy, here’s your rose “I”
) i First Scot—“Fat sort o’ minister hae ye gotten, Geordie?”
) j Second ditto—“ Oh ! Weel, he’s no muckle worth. We seldom get a
) s glint o’ him. Sax days o’ the week he’s enveeseble, and on the seventh
(| he’s encomprehensible.”—Punch.
\ I Emotional Eccentricities.—The London correspondent of the Cam-
(j bridge Express says:—“ The latest sensation is the expected arrival in
)j town of the Shakers. I say “in town,” for Hendon is essentially a
) j London place of amusement. The ignorant fanatics, who imagine Mrs.
!i Girling to be a prophetess, are probably quite unaware that they are
| coming to Kingsbury Common to be made a public spectacle. They
I probably see in the proprietor of the Welsh Harp a miraculous
j deliverer. However, they will probably entertain no religious scruples
| against getting a living by being looked at; and no doubt if Mrs. Girl-
1 ing does not take the precaution to limit the numbers of her followers,
j she will receive a large increase of proselytes, who are quite willing to
indulge a native propensity to laziness on the same terms. No doubt
thousands upon thousands will turn out to see this exhibition of religio-
| mania upon a grand scale. This kind of thing is growing popular. Is
there not already a settlement of heathen with a grand “ joss house ” of
| their own, which forms one of the great features of a more favourite
>]. resort than Hendon ? and has not London lately been swarming to see a
Negro “Revival” exhibited upon the stage? Religious dissipation is
I no longer satisfied by rushing from the Tabernacle to St. Alban’s,
Brook-street, or from Westminster Abbey to the Hall of Science.
Something more pungent is required to suit the taste of the age. Any
enterprising person who would import a few Mormons with a large
number of wives would ensure vast profits.
162
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 4, 1878.
THE SPIRITUAL POSITION OF MISERS.*
BT EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
Wealth may be made a great blessing, but its possession
very often proves a great curse. . It may be legitimately used
to promote the comfort and happiness of its possessor, and
of others, and it may be employed in ministering alone to
selfish and sensual gratification. By others again it is
hoarded for its own sake, and becomes a weight upon the
soul which sinks it to the very lowest depths of degradation.
Of these—misers—the most pitiable of men, Professor
Robert Hare, in a lecture on Spiritualism delivered in New
York many years since, said :—
“ Prudent, thoughtful, honest men, who do not choose to
live houseless, without clothes, nor upon the sweat of other
men’s brows, turn from the paths of amusement, of sensual
enjoyment, from the love of literature or science, or from
the observation and investigation of nature’s beauties and
miracles in order to get, through wealth, the power and
honest right to indulge. But while pursuing this great ob¬
ject, in the first instance only as a means of attaining other
objects, good or bad, they grow old in the chase, their
passions burn out, while avarice originates as it were from
their ashes, not, phcenix-like, to replace one parental being,
but a horrid monster, having nothing in common with a
plurality of progenitors but the selfish, ardent love of money,
unmitigated by any redeeming aspiration. A being so
actuated, or in other words a miser, would certainly find it as
difficult to reach a higher sphere in the spirit-world as it
would be for a camel to get through the needle’s eye. As swine
accumulate fat to bequeath to those to whom they leave their
carcases, so the avaricious accumulate wealth to hoard until
it can no longer be retained. They die with an immense
amount of negative sin, since all their omissions to do good
which is within their power are carried to their debit in the
spirit-world. Their poverty in the spirit-world will be pro¬
portioned to their ill-used wealth in this temporal abode.
When this is well brought home to mankind there will be
less avarice, and fewer of those crimes which arise from
selfish cupidity or ambition.”
There is something so grovelling in the social and moral
habits of a miser that he is generally shunned by all except¬
ing those whose interest or duty connect them with him.
The late Duke of Brunswick was an illustration of this fact.
Though possessing great wealth and a royal lineage, he was,
through the miserly propensities and practices which seemed
to constitute and represent his very life, universally despised
and generally shunned by the nobility of Europe. After
attaining old age death at last overtook him—we may here
well say, the enemy death—and the scene presented
during his last moments was as hideous as his life had been
unlovely. From an account in a public journal of the cir¬
cumstances attending his death I extract the following:
“ That picture from Geneva is dreadful which shows him
gasping for breath, with starting eyes, and his wig pushed
back from his forehead. The death-sweat furrowed his
painted cheeks, and the colours smeared his pillow as he
struggled for air. By his side, indifferent to his anguish,
and eager for the relief from unspeakable humiliation which
his death alone could afford, sat his mistress—young, reck¬
less, and beautiful. His attorney, a blunt Englishman of
substantial figure and inexpressive face, played with his
watch chain, and busied himself, while the old wretch lay
dying, with calculating the extent of his responsibility. It
was in this way that the diamond Duke finished his reckon¬
ing with the world, which had long been indifferent to his
existence.”
The miseries of this unfortunate man commenced with his
earliest cravings for wealth, followed him through life,
attended him in death, and where is he now ? We know
where his heart is—that it is with his lost earthly treasure :
tf For where your treasure is, there will be your heart also.”
This truism applies equally to embodied and disembodied
spirits.
How is it possible for any reflecting mind for a moment
to entertain the idea that by the magic process of churchly
absolution, or of an hour’s repentance, the very nature of
this man could have been changed, so that he would be
* Extracted from Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism.
I fitted for the pure and holy enjoyments of heaven equally
| with the loving and blessed soul who had followed the
example of Jesus, and devoted the energies and strength of
his life to the cause of charity and benevolence? Even if
| the miracle could be wrought, it would only raise doubts in
our minds of the justice of God.
Spiritualism disposes of cases like this more rationally.
I It teaches that under all this load of sin and darkness there
| existed a divine element, a spark of Deity that a whole life
of sin and error could not extinguish, and that when he
passed the portals of death he gravitated to a place where
! the conditions surrounding him would sooner or later permit
I and assist him to view himself as he is, and as he has been ;
! and with this knowledge acquired will come the desire for
improvement, and from this desire earnest efforts, and
I through these, with the assistance of sympathising angels,
j he will surely emerge from the evil that overshadows him,
| and will then rise to a higher plane, where he will acquire
i further strength and light and be enabled to ascend, step by
j step, the ladder of progression.
The sinner not only violates the commands of God, but
he transgresses the laws of his own being—“ But he that
sinneth against Me wrongeth his own soul. All they that
| hate Me love death. . . . His own iniquities shall take the
| wicked himself, and he shall be holden with the cords of his
| sins.”
His own sins do hold him. He is not followed by the
vengeance of an angry God, but is in the toils of his own
iniquity, and it is only by escaping from these that he can
rise through better resolve and better conditions to a state of
happiness.
The unhappy condition of a spirit who in this life passed
with superficial observers as a prosperous, contented man,
was made evident to me in a seance with Mr. Foster, Sept.
10th, 1870. Besides myself there were present three ladies,
relatives of mine. One of the ladies inquired of the spirit of
her uncle, Charles , whether his will was as he desired it
to be, and the answer was 11 No.” I then inquired who was
concerned in defeating his intentions, and the reply came—
“ The one you have in your mind.” The person I had in
my mind was Henry . Without alluding to the correct¬
ness of this answer, I asked if the spirits present would
request the presence of Henry , and after the delay of a
minute or two it was announced by raps that he was there ;
but the medium said he was impressed to say that the other
spirits did not like his presence, and the medium himself
showed signs of uneasiness. I inquired if he was happy ?
The answer was, “ No ; very unhappy,” and an urgent
request from the other spirits that I would ask him no more
questions.
Charles deferred making his will until his last ill¬
ness, and selected as his executors two old acquaintances.
One of these, Henry , wrote his will from his dictation,
but from one of its provisions being so directly contrary to
what was known to have been his declared intentions during
that same illness, it was thought by some that it was not
written as he directed. What confirmed this suspicion was
that the other executor, who had no part in the transaction,
declined to act, and even declined any further recognition
of this executor as an acquaintance. Both executors are
deceased, and evidence of fraud in the management of the
estate has since come to light. Thus it is literally true
that “ there is no darkness nor shadow of death where the
workers of iniquity may hide themselves.”
Oh, the grave! the grave ! It buries every error, covers every
defect, extinguishes every resentment. From its peaceful bosom
spring nought but fond regrets and tender recollections. Who can
look down upon the grave, even of an enemy, without feeling
a compunctious throb that he should have warred with the
poor handful of dust that lies mouldering beneath him ?— Washington
Irving.
To sat that the reflective mind is not lifted to a higher plane of
thought and aspiration by an assured sense of continuous life is an
absurdity. As well might it be said that a man who expected to live
only a week, would make the same provisions for his life that he
would if he expected to live a century. Spiritualism regards man not
only from the side of his limitations, but of his possibilities. “Why
dost thou wonder, oh, man,” says Isidore, “at the height of the stars,
or the depth of the sea ? Enter into thine own soul, and wonder
then! "—Sargent.
Oct. 4, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
163
EXPERIMENTAL SPIRITUALISM.
BY C. CARTER BRAKE, BOOT. SCI.
I presume that every one present is more or less a | H
Spiritualist, that is to say that he believes that sensation, I j j
on certain occasions, may take place without the ordinary i j |
channels of perception. I presume, also, that some feel an j | j
interest in the manner in which the scientific examination j j j
of form-manifestations, or what are called materialisations, j < I
may take place. If there bo such inquirers, and the fact j / j
of our assemblage here to-night is a sufficient raison d'etre I) j
for my theory that there is a numerous body of them, it j j
behoves us to inquire what are the forms which have been | j
so often seen, and so much more often described by various j j
observers. H
I may, in the first place, for all convenience of argument, j j j
presuppose that some of the forms which have appeared on [
so many occasions are genuine. All the numerous cases of j j
fraud which have existed will be passed over by me. That | j I
such cases have been more or less frequent is within the | j |
scope of our experience; but the probability that their j |
number is on the decrease is a fact on which every one may | j
now congratulate himself. I have not, therefore, to give you | !
any descriptions of the future life (if such there be for all ! j j
souls), but rather to give you a description of a spring- ! j
balance; I have no messages from any brighter land, past, | |
present, or future, to give you, but rather information (I j j
trust exact) respecting the management of a weighing j
machine; and while I disclaim any idea that the facts which j
I shall bring to your notice have any moral bearing what- j
ever, I merely claim that they are apparently exact. Expe- j
riment in Spiritualism has often been passed over in favour I
of the emotional part of the subject. If I have nothing j
particularly sensational or remarkable to bring before you— j
“ Non de vi, neque caede, nec veneno j i
Sed lis est mihi de tribus capellis,
Yicini queror has abesse furto.” | i
(Martial, Ep. vi. 19.)— j j
I trust that the precision of some of the facts may be j
an excuse for their common and simple nature. What has j !
been termed by one of the most eloquent masters of the j j
science, “a central dogma of our faith,” is perfectly un- j |
affected by the purely dynamical results which I shall notice, j] j
The “ egotism of the affections ” has little to do with these j j
experiments, and they have small relation with the “ de- j j
mand that our dead should be given back to us, not that we j j
should go to them, but that they should come to us.” We ill
have not, therefore, to consider such results; and any in- | i
terest which any person may feel in his own dead, or if his j |
sympathies extend over humanity, any one else’s dead, may be j j
gratified according to his own volition. No desire to com- jjj
municate with, or honour the memory of our ancestors j j
appears to have the slightest appreciable effect on a pencil ! !
attached to a spring balance. Still less can any person who j |
watches the experiments I am about to describe in detail j
derive any conceptions of the state of the soul after death j j
from what appears to me to be a very elaborate weighing |
machine. No less (t fear of death,” which appears to be a J j
condition through which all mankind must and will pass, j |
can be possessed by the person who pursues the weighing j j
machine experiment with care, than by he who may be the j j
follower of any creed as to the destination of the soul whose j j
body may be weighed at the price of one penny at the | j
adjacent railway station. Yet, as the man who has ascer- j I
tained his weight takes his ticket away with the conscious- | j j
ness that one (at least) physical fact is true, to the extent of | j
the veracity of the scales, so the preservation of records like | !
the present may tend to serve as factors on which some j |
future person may make a probable theory as to the trans- j j!
corporeal action of the human body. I will now, as briefly | j j
as I can, describe the machines which have been used by j j
the committee of the British National Association of | j j
Spiritualists. I make especial reference to the columns of {j
the Spiritualist for May 3rd, June 7th, and September 6th j !
for the present year. j |
[The lecturer here described the apparatus in detail.] j j j
Such, therefore, was the apparatus on which a number of j i
successful experiments have been worked out, and of such | I
* Raad at the meeting of the Marylebone Society of Inquirers into Spiritualism, Sept. I j i
24th, 1878. ‘ * t i
nature will be the improved apparatus with which the
liberality of Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Parksfield, Didsbury,
Manchester, has provided the Research Committee. The
psychic who has been employed in all cases is Mr. C. E.
Williams, and I am (at this time especially) bound to record
the honesty with which he aided the members of the com¬
mittee in their search after facts, and to place also in
evidence the proofs that even if he had been in any way
inclined to deception, it would have been physically impos¬
sible for him to have produced some of the results which
have been recorded. Experiments were, prior to the great
experiment with Mr. C. E. Williams on the 5th April last,
made by Mr. W. H. Harrison, to see what records were pro¬
duced by making various sprawling and violent motions on the
machine ; also by moving about with one leg off the machine
and another on it. Mr. Harrison u did not find it practi¬
cable to artificially produce Mr. Williams’s manifestation
of April 5th, 1878, at 8.52^ p.m., when the spirit gave a
heavy musical box to an observer, who was seated 12 ft. Sin.
from the front of the cabinet; while this was done there
was a quivering weight on the machine of never less than
28 lbs.” The fact that when this experiment took place
there was a weight at all in the cabinet is sufficient to
dispel the theory that it was possible for Mr. Williams, in
the guise of “ Peter,” to be lifting bells and moving boxes
of some weight at a distance of 12 ft. 3 in. from the spot
where his body recorded a weight of 28 lbs., which weight
is greater than that which could have been produced by
any portable article which the “ psychic ” could have
secreted and placed in the cabinet whilst he himself was
capering about the room. This theory, therefore, involves
that of a creation of weight to the extent of 28 lbs., quod
erat absurdum. Further, on the assumption that Mr.
Williams’s normal height is somewhat less than six feet, it
would be impossible for him to elongate his person to a
length of 12 ft. 3 in. With a view, however, that we shall
be able precisely to estimate the value of this experiment, I
shall read you Mr. Harrison’s notes of the seance, from the
Spiritualist of May 3rd last:—
Mr. Williams took his seaton the weighing machine at 8.7J p.m., the
self-registering apparatus gave the diagram shown in Fig 5, and the
following is from my record :—
8.7J—Medium entered cabinet.
8.9j—Strong shudderings of medium.
8.10—Light put out.
8.15—Peter’s voice heard.
8.17—Medium sighing and moaning.
8.17J—Peter entered into conversation.
S.IStt—Thread holding cabinet doors broken.
8.19—Peter said he didn’t do it.
8.192—Peter talked till 8.221?.
8.23— Medium made shivering noise.
8.24— Peter asked for remnants of fire in the grate to be raked out.
Done by Dr. Carter Blake.
8.24 J—Peter talking till 8.25.
8.28—Medium shuddered. Peter talked.
8.29J—Medium shuddered.
8.30J—Peter drew open curtains of his cabinet.
8.32— Peter said he was outside.
8.33— Medium shuddered.
8.33J—Peter : “ Can you see me ? ” Answer: “ No.”
8.34— Peter talking.
8.35£—Musical box set going by Peter’s order.
8.37—Mr. Barrett: “ Peter says he is outside the cabinet.”
8.374—Peter: “Does any one intimate Pm not outside!” Mr.
Harrison : “ No. Only known facts are stated.” Peter: “ That’s
right. Be scientific.”
[8.38—Light seen, and a head eighteen inches from cabinet.
8.39— Peter outside cabinet, touching Mr. Barrett.
8.40— Peter said he was still outside.
8.41— Peter talking. Light seen.
8.42— Illuminated head three feet from cabinet.
8 44—Peter talking, and gave a bell to Mr. Newbould near the other
cabinet. Gave it into his hand in the dark.
8.454—Light one foot from cabinet.
8.46—Illuminated face seen one foot from cabinet. Peter talked till
8.49—Peter said that he was out of the cabinet, and that he had put
the musical box on the floor of the cabinet. [Immediately before this
he had seized the musical box with both hands and had carried it
away. The box had previously rested on Mr. Barrett’s knees.]
8.51 —Peter said that the box was outside the cabinet.
8.52—Musical box floating outside cabinet, as usual in a dark seance.
8.524—The sitters said that Peter was “ right outside.” He gave
the musical box to Miss Kislingbury.]
8 54—A light seen one foot from cabinet. A face seen twice by Dr.
Carter Blake and others.
8.56—Peter talking.
164
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 4, 1878.
9.0—Peter said he was outside cabinet. [ (
9.3— Peter said he was gradually subsiding: Medium shuddered. j |
9.4— Peter said £C Good night ” to everybody in turn.
9.4J—Threw out paper tube. i j
9.5— Medium coughed. i i j
9.5|—Medium spoke. | )
9.7—Medium left the cabinet. j \
On this s/an&e, one fact may be noted which is rather of j I
interest to those who are students of Theosophy than to the !
others. Certain persons who do not claim to be “mediums” |
or psychics are occasionally able, either voluntarily or I
(perhaps) involuntarily, to produce manifestations, which j
some call “ spiritual,” on their own account. The method |
used is known to themselves, and has been known to |
“ adepts ” for several thousands of years. It is very curious ! |
that at 8.38, during this seance, such an experiment was j
commenced by one person, and carried on without inter- |
mission till 8.52%, precisely the time when the greatest i
manifestations took place. Similar experiments have been j j
often repeated, and agree in showing that the action which j j
brought forth ** Peter,” and made him perform his unseemly ! |
gambols, was not at that moment an action merely pro- j (
ceeding from the medium himself, who knew nothing of j
the experiment, and that one person, at least, in the circle I
had control over this fourteen minutes and a half of experi- | j
ment. It may, of course, be a mere coincidence; but it is j j
curious that the lines observable on the diagram during the 11 j
period which I have marked with a bracket should be so j j
different from those of any other part of the seance. The j |
vehement vibratory motion of the pencil, coupled with the j ]
extraordinary diminution of the weight of the “psychic,” jfj
seem to indicate that some other force was at action than j j |
that which was evolving some “ spirit ” from the body of j j
Mr. Williams, or in any way according to his volition. Mr. j j
Harrison, whose careful description and philosophical inter- ) j
pretation of the nature of these phenomena, leaves nothing j j
to be desired in its purely scientific and exact -method, has ! j j
admitted that during this time, “from 8.89 to 8.56, the jj!
weight of the medium was constantly altering; sometimes j j j
he weighed about 30 lbs., at other times about 60 lbs., but j j
his weight was constantly changing, as if some vibrating j j
force were acting upon him all the time.” Possibly the j |
nature of this force is that for which we seek. Some atten- | j
tion should be paid to the nature of the long thin lines in j j
this diagram, which appear prior to 8.38 to have been i i
frequent, but which undoubtedly merely represent jolts, or j j
oscillations in the apparatus. The new machine will doubt- | |
less make these lines a little less frequent. I must again j j j
call your attention to the time 8.52£, when a box was given j I
to a person present at the seance, as at that precise moment j I
there was a pull on the weight of the psychic, which has j j
drawn a vertically straight line, which, however, does not j j
come down to zero by 28 or 30 lbs. It is evident, by this j !
registry, that something at that moment was inside the j j
cabinet. . | j I
The termination of this seance is not the less remarkable, j j |
Although the experiment of which I had made mention j j |
terminated at 8.52^, the “ vibratory force ” exercised con- j j
tinned its action until 8.56. Of this I venture to offer no ! j
explanation, as the apparent discrepancy between the appear- | j
ance of the contour lines in the diagram and those towards j j j
the termination of the experiment is to me inexplicable, i j |
except on the theory that the “ loose forces ” generated ! j
during the experiment, which had come into action precisely | |
at 8.38, when Peter’s light had come out, required three jj
minutes and a half to settle down. | j
I next proceed to notice the seance which was held by j j j
Mr. G. 0. Joad and Mr. Harrison with Mr. C. E. Williams j jj
alone, and quote Mr. Harrison’s record of it, at the same j |
time that I hand round diagram Eo. 6. j j I
[Extract read.] j j
The value of this experiment chiefly consists in the re- j j j
corded fact that while a body which appeared, to use the | j j
words of Mr. Joad, to be moving about “ clad in ordinary ! j j
dark male costume,” a weight existed in the cabinet of j j j
35 lbs. on the machine, being 7 lbs. greater than that in the j j j
experiment of the 5th of April. The nature of the weight j j
so left requires some examination, and those who have had i |j
far greater experience of form-manifestations than the past | j
twenty-two years have afforded me suggest that some ^
examination should be made by critical observers, at the
moment when the so-called “ spirit ” is about, of the
psychic’s body. Let me here protest against the thoroughly
unscientific and brutal habit of seizing the “spirit” and
solving a dynamical question by a game at fisticuffs.
Nothing has ever occurred from such a method of procedure
(except in the Liverpool cases) but confusion. It is not the
“ Dasyu,” or temporarily vitalised, imitation form, that re¬
quires in such circumstances to be examined and its position
recorded, but the medium or “psychic ” himself. Ordinary
eyes and ears aided, if necessary, by scales and weights, will
be sufficient to watch the course of another human being,
and the “ spirit ” may be left to follow its own devices. It
may be safely averred that, between this world and the next,
room enough can be found both for ourselves and for any
materialised “ spirit ” form to pursue our respective careers
unchecked by interruption.
The great advantage, and it is one on which I cannot insist
to you too strongly, of experiments carried on in the method
of the present, is that we are free from the complications
which often arise through the conduct of enthusiastic advo¬
cates of any theory whatever. There can be no preconceived
opinion, no fixed idea, no arridre pensee in a weighing
machine. A machine of itself has no prejudice, and can
only record the variations which its own unbiased pencil can
note. The value, therefore, of a series of deliberate records
like the present can be estimated by its probable effect on
those persons who are outside the ranks of Spiritualism.
When reasonable men (and I would fain hope that many of
those who are opposed to us in personal feeling may possess
habits of thought not on the whole inferior to those of the
London costermonger, who has the habit of weighing his
goods, whether truly or falsely, at least with precision) per¬
ceive that Spiritualists exist, whom no tediousness of
experiment, no weary watching and waiting in the dark, no
repeated failures, can daunt in the careful pursuit of an in¬
vestigation which may prove of interest to the lovers of
truth. The habitual scientific man is perhaps slow to ex¬
press his ideas, and his habits of thought are not such as
may conduce to readiness in didactic utterance. Still thos&
men, who
Among the "wicked, have dared to stand at bay ;
Who alone have borne the heat and the burden of the day ;
By an evil generation for a scorn and bye-word named,
They have set their faces like a flint, and will not be ashamed,
have some reason why they should bear testimony to others.
There is no reason why any stranger, no matter how pre¬
judiced or how ignorant, should not be able to examine the
experiments we have made, and are making; no reason
why he should not repeat those experiments by himself at
his own cost. The results of themselves may attract in¬
vestigators, if they are gifted with a patent scientific spirit.
Above all, the advantage which such experiments as these
possess above the loose test conditions which so often are
given, ought to convince scientific observers of their purity
as well as of their exactitude.
My time alone will preclude my allusion at length to
another experiment, which appears to be of the highest value.
If the wires of a deflecting galvanometer are attached round
the wrists of a “ medium ” during a cabinet seance, an
apparatus has been used by Mr. Harrison which projects two
bright spots on the wall of the room, which spots, so long as
they continue to be fixed, are of themselves proof that the
psychic, to whose hands the wires are attached, cannot in any
way move from his seat without the fact being noted on the
wall. Such experiments have in past time been successful,
and they may probably in the future lead to some good
results.
These experiments, therefore, which have been recently
carried on have had the effect of increasing our stock of
knowledge, of making more certain the conclusions to which
many have been led from other grounds, and of giving at
least some certain facts which will show to the outside world
that we at least have the consciousness that we do not “ do
our work negligently.” If those minds who can only be con¬
vinced of the truth of an experiment by its constant repeti¬
tion, and who are willing that the facts of Spiritualism
should be taken out of the domain of the wonder-seeker, and
rendered as simple as a telephone or a steam-engine, are in
Oct. 4, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
165
any way disposed to admit that there is something in our
science worth careful inquiry and scientific investigation, j
your time at least will not have been wasted in listening" to
some at least of the facts I have had the honour imperfectly |
to bring before you.
BIBLIOLATRY.
BY JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL.
Bowing thyself in dust before a book,
And thinking the great God is thine alone,
O rash iconoclast, thou wilt not brook
What gods the heathen carves in wood and stone,
As if the shepherd who from outer cold
Leads all his shivering lambs to one sure fold
Were careful for the fashion of his crook J
i
There is no broken reed so poor and base,
No rush, the bending tilt of swamp-fly blue,
But He therewith the ravening wolf can chase,
And guide His flock to springs and pastures new;
Through ways unlocked for, and through many lands,
Far from the rich folds built with human hands,
The gracious footprints of His love I trace.
And what art thou, own brother of the clod,
That from his hand the crook wouldst snatch away
And shake instead thy dry and sapless rod,
To scare the sheep out of the wholesome day ?
Yea, what art thou, blind, unconverted Jew,
That with thy idol volume’s covers two
Wouldst make a jail to coop the living God ?
Thou hear’st not well the mountain organ-tones
By prophet ears from Hor and Sinai caught,
Thinking the cistern of those Hebrew brains
Drew dry the springs of the All-knower’s thought;
Nor shall thy lips be touched with living fire,
Who blow’st old altar-coals with sole desire
To weld anew the spirit’s broken chains.
God is not dumb that Ho should speak no more;
If thou hast wanderings in the wilderness
And find’st not Sinai, ’tis thy soul is poor;
There towers the mountain of the Voice no less,
Which whoso seeks shall find, but he who bends,
Intent on manna still and mortal ends,
Sees it not, neither hears its thundered lore.
Slowly the Bible of the race is writ,
And not on paper leaves nor leaves of stone ;
Each age, each kindred, adds a verse to it,
Texts of despair or hope, of joy or moan ;
While swings the sea, while mists the mountain’s shroud,
While thunders’ surges burst on cliffs of cloud,
Still at the prophet’s feet the nations sit.
—Religio -Philosophical Journal.
JOHNSON AND BYRON ON SPIRITS.
That the dead are seen no more, I will not undertake to maintain against
the concurrent testimony of all ages and all nations. There is no people, rude
or unlearned, among whom apparitions of the dead are not related and
believed. This opinion, which prevails as far as human nature is diffused,
could become universal only by its truth; those that never heard of one
another would not have agreed in a tale which nothing but experience could
make credible. That it is doubted by single cavillers can very little weaken
the general evidence ; and some who deny it with their tongues confess it with
their fears.—Johnson.
I merely mean to say what Johnson said,
That, in the course of some six thousand years,
All nations have believed that from the dead
A visitant at intervals appears ;
I
And what is strangest upon this strange head
Is, that, whatever bar the reason rears
’Gainst such belief, there’s something stronger still
In its behalf, let those deny who will.
—Byron.
(Eorresponxieuce.
[ Great freedom is offered to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
ars not anonymous.] .
THE LAW OF “ THE PERSISTENCE OF VISION ” VERIFIED.
Sir,—After reading Mr. Cogle’s letter in The Spiritualist of Sep¬
tember 20th, I hung up an old straw hat against the wall, and, as I
fully expected, after gazing at it while I counted thirty or forty, and
then looking at the light paper, or, better still, on the ceiling, there
were floating before my eyes discs of light of different degrees of
brilliancy ; and such will be the case, I think, with almost any one who
tries the experiment.
Now I, unlike Mr. Cogle, fully accept, and have long accepted, the
spiritualistic theory, but I do not think it has anything to do with the
question before us. The principle is, I think, explained in a book
published about fourteen years ago by Griffith and Farran, St. Paul’s
Churchyard, called Spectropia; or. Surprising Spectral Illusions,
showing Ghosts Everywhere and of any Colour} with illustrations by
J. H. Brown.
As an easy illustration, let any one draw a death’s head, for
instance, on white paper, blacken all the bone parts, leaving the hollow
of the eyes, nose, and mouth white, look fixedly at it while you count
thirty, as described, and then look on the ceiling, and a death’s head
will appear on the ceiling. To quote Mr. Brown’s book :—
“ Turning the eye to the ceiling, the sky, or, better still, to a white
sheet hung on the wall of a darkened room (not totally dark), and
looking rather steadily at any one point, the spectre will soon begin to
make its appearance, increasing in intensity, and then gradually
vanishing, to reappear and again vanish ; it will continue to do so
several times in succession, each reappearance being fainter than the
one preceding.”
The writer further tells us :—
“ The duration and vividness of these impressions on the retina vary
greatly in different individuals, and can be procured from almost any
object. A person may, after looking steadily, and, as often happens,
| unconsciously for a short time at printed or painted figures on paper,
I porcelain, &c., see, on turning the head in some other direction, a life-
j sized or colossal spectre (the spectre appears larger the greater the
| distance of the surface against which it is seen), and there can be little
I doubt but that many of the reputed ghosts originate in this manner.
“The retina is so admirably constructed that it is susceptible of
| different impressions of colour by these different vibrations, except in
the case of a few individuals who are either blind to all colours, or who
| are blind to only one or two colours.
“ When we look steadily at a red object for a few seconds, that part
i of the retina on which the image impinges begins to get less sensitive to
vibrations producing red,-but more sensitive to those producing blue
and yellow ; so that, on turning the eye away from the red object, and
| permitting a little white light to enter it, that part of the retina which
received the red image will, in consequence of its diminished sensi¬
bility to that colour, and its exalted sensibility to blue and yellow, be
j able to perceive the two latter colours best, and by their mixture will
give rise to a green image of the red object. The same thing will be
| observed with all the other colours, the secondary image or spectre
j always appearing of the complementary colour to the object from
j which the impression is obtained.” In the figures illustrating this book,
II as they would in all other cases, a black figure, when turned from, and
fixing the eyes on the ceiling, looks light in colour; white appears
1! dark ; orange, light purple; light purple, orange; and, as has been
11 shewn, red becomes green, &c., &c. W. B. Tomlinson.
ERRATA.
Sir,—I find that either your printers or myself have made some errors
j in my letter of last week, which materially alters the sense. After the
i words “charges brought against me” should be a comma, and after the
words “ I declare most solemnly ” should be a full stop.
The words “was interfered with” should stand “ was not interfered
with.” In the last line but one, instead of the word “ immediate ” should
stand “ unenviable.” This, you see, alters the complexion of the case.
Charles E. Williams.
I 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, Sept. 27, 1878.
]  
I
| Sir,—My brother, whose mention of my case in last week’s
J Spiritualist is my best introduction to you, tells me that more than one
of the scientific men interested in psychological phenomena would like
| further details regarding the matter. These I shall be most pleased to
i furnish, either personally or by letter, both in the interests of truth and
| also out of gratitude for the great relief afforded me by Mrs. Loomis.
| I am allowed to mention the experience of a friend of mine. Occu¬
pying, as she did for ten weeks, the bed next to mine in the hospital
j ward to which I was consigned, I was witness to her terrible suffering
from an obscure internal complaint. She underwent in the hospital one
| of the most painful operations known to science, yet left it worse than
when she entered it. Three weeks ago she wrote to me, in a most
! despairing mood, saying that after attending the hospital for some time
as out-patient, her medical adviser, an eminent surgeon, told her that
her life depended upon her undergoing another operation similar to that
which had already so largely drawn upon her powers of endurance. I
urged her, by my own experience of hospital treatment, and by
my own conviction of Mrs. Loomis’ power, to consult that medium
| first. Meantime, I mentioned casually to Mrs. Loomis, when
| she was mesmerically entranced, that I felt very deeply for a person
! who had been with me through a painful hospital experience. She
I made no particular reply at the time, but the next time I visited
her, when I was under treatment, she, without any suggestion from me,
| or, so far as I am aware, any thought upon my part hearing upon the
subject, quietly remarked, “I looked up your friend, she is suffering
from”—(here followed the diagnosis corresponding in every respect
with my friend’s account of herself)—“ but suffers more from the in-
j struments used to examine her, and the powerful medicines and remedies
employed than from the disease itself. She can be relieved by me, but
| .perhaps not entirely cured.” Armed with this report, I persuaded my
friend, although she was in a most unbelieving and mocking frame of
mind, to visit the medium, who, I should mention, hearing that her
means were very limited, offered to treat her for nothing. Suffice it to
say—not that my friend is cured as yet—but that she has written me a
letter of most grateful thanks for the introduction to Mrs. Loomis, and
rejoices, if not yet in entire restoration to health, in comparative freedom
from pain, and in a firm conviction that Mrs. Loomis thoroughly under¬
stands her case. I fear to trespass upon your space, yet must add one
I word to those—and their name is legion—who ask for a sign. I myself,
conscious that my mind might for the moment be so weakened by bodily
suffering and many cares,[that I might be unduly biased by any direct
manifestation of supernatural knowledge (or of knowledge that might
appear such), have carefully abstained from putting any test questions-
166
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 4, 1878.
My husband, however, inclined to regard my recovery as somewhat
imaginary, called upon Mrs. Loomis, resolved to test her. Abstracting
his watch he substituted for it a silver medal, received by him after the
Indian mutiny, and inquired of her what he had in his pocket. After
some hesitation, she replied that she could not see at the moment, but
would tell him later ; and upon her awaking, as my husband jokingly
told Mrs. Loomis that the test bad failed, her husband said, “ See if
your control will tell it through your hand.” She took up a pencil and
wrote, “ He has something like a medal, with writing on it, in place of
his watch.” I am quite aware that this experience may be explained
upon the ground of thought-reading, but after all that (though more
readily acknowledged than the spiritual hypothesis) is to inquirers like
myself quite as difficult of comprehension.
I enclose my name and address for your use in the interests of truth,
but not for publication. R.
THE INFLUENCE OF INANIMATE OBJECTS UPON
CERTAIN MESMERIC SENSITIVES.
In astronomy, psychometry will do as much as in geology, or more.
A first-class telescope cannot be had for less than ten thousand dollars.
The labour of a working man’s life-time would hardly buy one; and,
when bought, he could but faintly discern the outlines of land and water
on a planet as far distant as Mars. Tens of thousands possess telescopes
as much better than that as sunshine is brighter than candle-light; all
they need is a knowledge of their own powers, and a little instruction in
the way to make use of them. With these telescopes they can not only
see the outlines of land and water, but they can see water, rocks, plants,
homes, and people, and watch those people as they follow their daily
avocations. A telescope only enables us to see; but the spiritual
faculties enable their possessors to hear, smell, taste, and feel, and
become, for the time being, almost inhabitants of the planets they are
examining. The secrets of our solar system that scientists have sought
so earnestly to penetrate are soon to be revealed; and the process by
which this is to be accomplished is such a simple one, it seems amazing
that we had not previously discovered it.
It must not be imagined that all this can be done without close inves¬
tigation and careful discrimination. It is quite interesting to watch the
progress of a psychometer when getting at the history of a specimen
which is familiar to the listener; to see theory after theory thrown
down as more and more light is revealed by the psychometric vision.
I have known a psychometer to remain in the dark in reference to
some important point after even five or six examinations; and where
the objects examined are such that we cannot check the statements of
the psychometer, or only by the statements of other psychometers, the
greatest caution is necessary. For some examinations it is best that
the psychometer should know nothing about the history desired from the
specimen; but, in most cases, the more highly cultured the psychometer
is, the better and more reliable the results. Had Sherman the know¬
ledge of comparative anatomy possessed by Owen of England, or of
botany that Gray of America has, his description would be almost in¬
finitely superior to what they are now, and carry conviction, by their
harmony with known facts, to the minds of the most sceptical capable of
appreciating them.
The parties experimenting need a good knowledge of the times to
which the specimen is related, or they may think a psychometer very
wide of the mark when his descriptions are the very truth. Many
statements given in this volume I only discovered to be true after care¬
ful examination of authorities; and many things stated, that I regarded
at the time as extremely improbable, proved to be in complete harmony
with known facts. <
Psychometry will enable us to appreciate a class of people who have
never yet had justice done to them. I refer to the sensitives, the ‘‘ odd
people ” of the world, who see what no one else can discern ; who dis¬
like persons and places, though their friends may be perfectly satisfied
with them, and can give no reason for their dislike. Some of them feel
uncomfortable in a railway carriage unless close to an open window, and
are liable to faint in churches or crowded halls. Some cannot sleep well
unless their heads are to the north ; and copper or brass affects them
unpleasantly. Such people are endowed by nature with a more active
condition of the spiritual faculties; and they can, as a general thing,
readily develop into good psychometrists, who will, before long, fill a
very prominent place in the intellectual advancement of the race. The
lunatic asylum has imprisoned some of the best of these, in consequence
of their extreme sensitiveness, who, by judicious treatment, might have
been the noblest pioneers of science.—Prof William Denton, in the
ff Soul of Things f
MRS. EMMA HARDINGE-BRITTEN.
The following details of the career of Mrs. Hardinge-Britten are from
the Bendigo Advertiser (Australia) of July 17th, 1878:—In a large and
compendious work, entitled The History of Modern American Spirit¬
ualism, of which Mrs. Britten as the author may be justly proud, she
claims that she was converted to the “new faith” some twenty-one
years ago, and that although she yielded to conviction only, after a long
and well-fought battle with the theological prejudices of her early educa¬
tion, she found in the phenomena of Spiritualism a clue to those
mysteries of somnambulism, clairvoyance, and “ghost-seeing,” to
which she had all her life been subject. Destined as a child to the
operatic profession, she acquired some reputation as a composer, but
her chief successes were achieved in the “ somnambulistic condition,”
when she could play, sing, and compose, with a facility and power
totally at variance with her ordinary state. Mrs. Britten being an
enthusiast in the faith which she now professes, devoted herself
exclusively to its propagandism from the time when she became con¬
vinced of its reality, and some eighteen years ago gave her services free
to the public of New York, in the capacity of what is generally termed
“ a test medium.” During this period she assisted Professors Hare and
| Mapes and Judge Edmonds in their investigations, aided in the forma¬
tion of several Spiritualistic societies, organised choirs, composed
| spiritual music, wrote numerous tracts and pamphlets on the new
j philosophy, edited weekly a periodical entitled Christian Spiritualist,
and conducted what was claimed to be a very high-toned monthly
journal entitled the Western Star. During the great American war,
Mrs. Britten became a warm partisan of the Union cause, devoting so
much of her time and service to the benefit of the Sanitary Fund that
j the Hew York Herald of 1865 credited her with the amount {of 20,000
dollars, raised by her lectures alone, in behalf of the Union soldiers.
During the last election of Abraham Lincoln, Mrs. Hardinge-Britten,
at the earnest solicitation of the Union party of San Francisco, under¬
took to become its orator, and travelled throughout the State of Cali¬
fornia as the champion orator of the cause in favour of Lincoln. Her
extraordinary powers of oratory and irresistible pleadings were then,
i and still are, acknowledged to have been mainly instrumental in procur¬
ing the large majority which that State accorded to the Republican
cause, and there are many of the “ old Californians ” who still speak in
terms of glowing enthusiasm of Emma Hardinge as the “ California
! Heroine ” of that stupendous struggle. Mrs. Hardinge-Britten has long
devoted herself to the laudable effort to found country retreats for poor
| outcast women, and besides her absorbing attention to her “ favourite
heresy,” she has found time to labour for many of the popular reforms of
| American and English civilisation. For the last few years Mrs. Britten
has been honourably noteworthy for her open and determined opposition
to the inroads of what are known in America as the “ social freedom ”
doctrines, whose advocates claimed in some way to associate themselves
with the cause of Spiritualism, and the San Francisco Morning Call
\ gives Mrs. Britten high credit for redeeming it from the odium of any
I such association. Mrs. Britten comes to these colonies flushed with
| triumph from a series of brilliant successes achieved in her last San
; Francisco engagement. Being a member of the New York Theosophical
Society, and an associate of divers other societies for the study and
practice of what she terms “ Spiritual Science,” Mrs. Britten founded
| in San Francisco a select private society for the study of occultism, in
which, as she alleges, she is sustained by many of the leading judges,
j lawyers, and scientists of the city. On her departure for Australia
some two months since, her numerous friends and admirers presented
her with a splendid jewel of emblematic significance, commemorative of
! the society she had founded, the exhibition of which in the shop of the
| manufacturer created much curious speculation and interest. To sum
up, all that can be learned of Mrs. Britten’s past career is as strange
and phenomenal as the doctrine she professes, but of her intellectual
powers, and her singular control over her audiences, the public of
Sydney will now have an ample opportunity of judging for themselves.
It is asserted by those who have attended the addresses she has already
delivered in this city, that for eloquence and impressiveness they are
unsurpassed by any utterances to which they have ever listened, and
evince the highest tone of culture and oratory. Mrs. Britten has come
to these colonies under a special engagement to lecture in Mel¬
bourne, where subscriptions were sometime since raised to bring her
from America. She arrived with her husband, Dr. Britten, by the last
San Francisco mail steamer, en route direct for Melbourne, but being
interviewed on the day of her arrival in Sydney by a few gentlemen to
whom she was known by fame, she has been induced to remain for a
fortnight, and after the conclusion of her engagement in Melbourne, is.
pledged to return and fulfil an engagement of several weeks in Sydney.
THE FEAR OF DEATH.
!)! {From “ Heaven and Hell,” Blackwell's Translation.)
111 Man’s real life is in the soul; but, while he remains attached to
| j j externals, he sees life only in the body; and, therefore, when the body
|) I is deprived of life, he fancies that all is over, and abandons himself to
| s I despair. If, instead of concentrating his thought on the outer garment
I j of life, he directed his thought to the source of life, to the soul which is
|) I the real being, and which survives the change of its outer clothing, he
II i would feel less regret at the idea of losing his body, instrument of so
II i much annoyance and suffering; but, for this, man needs a moral
|) strength which is only acquired by him gradually, and in proportion as
i j i his spirit advances towards maturity.
I j I The fear of death, therefore, results from insufficient knowledge of
i) j the future life ; but it also denotes aspiration after a continuance of
I j! existence and anxiety lest the destruction of the body should be the end
I ] of our career : it is, therefore, evidently due to a secret desire for survi-
i) ] val that is really existing in the soul, although partially hidden under
| j j the veil of uncertainty.
The fear of death diminishes in proportion as we obtain a clearer
1!! anticipation of the future life; it disappears entirely when that antici-
I (| pation has become a certainty.
III The wisdom of Providence is seen in this progressive march of human
| {i convictions in regard to the continuance of our existence beyond the
|) I grave. If the certainty of a future life had been permitted to man
! |! before his mental vision was prepared for such a prospect, he would
| {i have been dazzled thereby, and the seductions of such a certainty, too
I {i clearly seen, would have led him to neglect the present life, his diligent
! 11 use of which is the condition of his physical and moral advancement.
| j The fear of death is also kept up by merely human causes, which will
II disappear with the progress of the race. The first of these is the aspect
| i under which the idea of the future life has hitherto been presented;
j j an aspect which sufficed for minds of slight advancement, but
{! which could not satisfy the mental requirements of intellects
[ i that had learned to reason on the subject. The presentation, as
Oct. 4, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
167
absolute truth, of statements that are both irrational in themselves and j
opposed to the data of physical science, has necessarily led reflecting !
minds to the conclusion that such a presentation must be unfounded and !
•erroneous. Hence have resulted, in the minds of many, utter scepti¬
cism in relation to the reality of a future existence that has been pre¬
sented under an unacceptable aspect, and, in the minds of a yet greater
number, a half-belief, so strongly tinctured with doubt, as to differ but
slightly from unbelief. For the latter, the idea of a future life is, at
best, but a vague hypothesis, a probability, rather than a certainty;
they wish that it may be so, and yet, notwithstanding that desire, they
say to themselves, “But what if, after all, there should be nothing
beyond the grave ! We are sure of the present; let us busy ourselves
with that. It will be time enough to take thought for a future life when
we have found out whether that life really exists.’ ’
“ And besides,” say the doubters, “ what, in fact, is the soul? Is it a
mathematical point, an atom, a spark, a flame ? How does the soul
feel ? how does it see ? how, and what, does it perceive ? ” The soul, for j
most people, is not a positive and active reality, but a mere abstraction.
Those whom they have loved, but from whom they have been separated j
by death, being reduced, in their thought, to the state of atoms, of a
spark, or of gas, seem to be separated from them for ever, and to have
lost all the qualities for which they formerly loved them. Most people
find it difficult to consider “ an atom,” “a spark,” or “a gas,” as an
object of affection; they fail to derive satisfaction from the prospect of
being themselves converted into “ monads,” and seek to escape from
contemplations so vague and cheerless, by restricting their thoughts to
the interests, pursuits, and enjoyments of terrestrial life, which offers
them, at least, the appearance of something real and substantial. The
number of those who are swayed by considerations of this kind is very
great.
HEALING MEDIUM SHIP.
The following certificates of cures effected by Mr. Oraerin, the
healing medium, have been handed to us for publication
Sm,—I must thank you very heartily for having quite relieved me
from the great pain I suffered in my neck, which prevented any move¬
ment of the head. I am now quite cured of it. At the same time I
think it a duty to state that the Polish lady whom I had the honour to
introduce to you is, through your wonderful treatment, thoroughly
cured of the headache from which she suffered so long. As I feel deeply
indebted to you for having cured me and the lady, accept my best
thanks, and believe me, sir, yours very truly, Count Calcagni.
31, Wide Gate-street, London, E.O., September 5th, 1878.
A young girl in my employment for many years was often subjected
to headache. On many occasions she was compelled to leave off work
on account of her sudden illness. Just as she was taken ill last time
Mr. Omerin came in to see me, and he said he could cure her of her
complaint. I saw myself that he only passed his hands across her
forehead a few times, and she was instantly cured. She has not suffered
from that complaint since, and he treated her about eight months ago.
W. Levy.
THE INSPIRATIONAL POWERS OF RAMA BAI.
Copies of The Behar Herald, of August 13th and August
20th, sent us from Bankipore by the last Indian mail, con¬
tain some interesting particulars about one who is apparently
an unrecognised medium. The editor says : 11 The more we
learn of Rami Bai, the more wonderful appear to us her
attainments in Sanscrit and her power and readiness in com¬
posing Sanscrit verses. We learn from the Brakmo Public
Opinion that on Friday last she paid a visit to the Roy’s of
Hatkhola, at their residence in Shovabazar-street. All the
Pundits of Calcutta and its suburbs were invited on the
occasion. The lady was accompanied by Pundit Mahesh
Chundra Nayayaratna. On taking her seat she was asked by
Pundit Tara Nath Tarkavachaspati to explain a sloha from
Bhagbut, which she did satisfactorily. Then Pundit Ajit Nath
Smritiratna, the celebrated logician of Nuddia, asked her to
compose a sloha, of which he gave her the latter half of the last
line.” She then composed some lines of poetry in Sanscrit
in seven minutes to include it. After this Pundit Sharoda
Churn in the same way asked her to compose a sloka, giving
her, in Sanscrit, the last half of the last line, viz., “ This is
not the business of a woman; ” and a Sanscrit verse was
composed in five minutes, setting forth—u My speaking
much in an assembly of Pundits who are very learned may
be considered as the delirious ravings of a shameless woman,
and people may say, 4 this is not the business of a woman.’
Then she recited some passages from Bhagbut, and some
verses from Sruti Adhya. The recital of these difficult
passages, coupled with the sweetness of her intonation and
elegance of her pronunciation, filled the ^crowded audience
with admiration.” The editor further says, in another
article:—11 Rama Bai, the fair Maharatta scholar, is the
heroine of the hour. Her rare attainments in Sanscrit have
taken the Calcutta public by surprise. In recognition of
her merits substantial rewards are now being given to her
| by several gentlemen of the metropolis. She lately paid a
visit to the Rev. Dr. K. M. Banerjee, and had the honour of
| meeting the Honourable the Chief Justice in his company.
Sir Richard Garth was so much pleased with her perform-
! ance that he gave her a nuzzur of Rs. 20. She paid a visit
| to the Paikpara Rajas on Sunday, the 11th instant. They
| gave her a donation of Rs. 125.” To those who know how
| severely women are kept down in India, these facts will seem
very remarkable.
j THE ABNORMAL CALCULATING POWERS OF THE LATE
MR. BIDDER.
The funeral of Mr. George Parker Bidder, C.E., the cele-
| bra ted calculator, took place on Wednesday in last week, and
I was attended by Sir Jas. Elliott, M.P., Mr. Fronde, the
! officers of H.M.S. Britannia, and numerous other gentle-
| men. Commenting on the deceased the Globe remarks :—
Mr. Bidder was born in 1806, and consequently he had
completed his 72nd year. He attributed the first stimulus
[ j given to his genius to passing the door of a blacksmith’s
j shop which stood opposite to his father’s, in which, when
i old enough, he was, in his own words, “ raised to the dignity
of being allowed to blow the bellows.” In his address to
] the Institute of Civil Engineers in 1860, he tells how he
| answered some questions in arithmetic put by the old black-
| smith, the answers to which were checked by the old gentle-
I man’s nephew, who chalked them up to see if he was right,
j “ As a natural consequence,” he says, “ this increased my
II fame still more, and, what was better, it eventually caused
11 halfpence to flow into my pocket, which, I need not say,
| attached me still more to the science of arithmetic.” We all
j know how George Bidder, the calculating boy, was one of the
I wonders of the age when he publicly exhibited his wonderful
11 talents, and many of us probably have read the story how
j -old George III. and Queen Charlotte would have him at
11 Court and listen in wonder to him. Eventually he was
j withdrawn from the public and educated at Edinburgh
| through the kindness of a friend, and afterwards embraced
II the science of engineering under Henry Robertson Palmer,
| j who was the founder of the Institute of Civil Engineers.
| During the latter part of his life, he was consulted by the
1 Government constantly on pressing and important matters,
j and had practically retired from everyday work. With him
| has gone one of the long memories which nothing escaped,
and one of those counsellors and advisers from whom a
| valuable opinion could always be obtained. He lived to see
j his eldest son become one of the leading barristers of the
| day, and his second son a double first-class man at Oxford.
| In his address to the institution in 1860, in concluding his
| wonderful lecture on calculation, he accuses himself of
I irritability of temper, but those who knew him best will
| always bear in mind that, though somewhat brusque in
I manner occasionally, there never was a more staunch or true
j friend. During his connection with Stephenson, Mr.
I Bidder was sometimes required to give evidence as to rail-
I ways before committees of the Houses of Parliament.
I “ What is the share capital of such a railway company ?”
s would be asked him, and he would reply to the question
from memory. Then he would be asked for various results,
II involving generally half a page of figures, and he would
! have them ready without the use of a pencil. 11 How do
j you do it?” a friend once asked him. “ I don’t do it,” he
| replied, “ I $00 it.”
J | Messes. Williams and Rita at Amsterdam.—Mr. A. J. Riko, of
11 the Hague, says:—“The party who exposed Williams and Rita are
i respectable, trustworthy men, who only wished to obtain security against
{| the mixing up of cheating with genuine phenomena by the mediums in
11 question. The seance was held at the house of Mr. Daniels, who has
11 been for some time convinced of the truth of Spiritualism, and who wit-
| j nessed Slade’s phenomena, and others. Mr. Ferpstra, who caught the
) | mediums, is a gentleman who has also for years been acquainted with
(| the subject, and has witnessed many interesting phenomena in the home
; circle. Mr. Krabbe is an upright truth-seeker in Spiritualism. I know
11 him personally, and answer for him as for myself; his wife is highly
1 j mediumistic, and through her phenomena are very often obtained. Old
Mr. Van Maurik is convinced of the phenomena fully, and his son,
Justus, is also a Spiritualist. In short, all the persons connected with
the matter are trustworthy and respectable folks, who would not be
found ready to undersign falsehoods on any account.”
168
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 4, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM IN PARIS.
{From our Special Coirespondent.)
Paris, Tuesday.
A few nights ago the Baron Du Potet introduced me to
the Mesmeric Society of Paris, 20, Rue Neuve des Petits
Champs, where eighty or ninety people had assembled to
witness some experiments. The method of procedure was
more sensational than at similar meetings in England.
Instead of merely giving counters to the sitters to gaze at,
till some of them threw themselves into the somnambulic
sleep, a white disc, the size of a cheese plate, was chalked
upon the centre of the oaken floor. A {C magic ” ring was
then drawn with chalk round the disc, at about the distance
of a yard, and outside the ring, in the direction of the four
corners of the room, mysterious letters were chalked. The
observers sat all round the room close to the four walls, and
were told to gaze steadily at the white disc or “ magic
mirror,” which was then mesmerised by the operator. Some
of those who gazed at it gradually assumed a fixed expression
of countenance, and were evidently passing into the
somnambulic state; the mesmerist then drew a straight
chalk line from the feet of these sensitives to the white disc
in the centre of the room. I was aware that in a few
minutes some of these persons would have rushed to the
disc, just as sensitives are drawn in England to the platform
by a “ biologist,” as he calls himself, but on the occasion now
under notice, the mesmerist and his assistants had a counter
attraction in the shape of the presence of their honorary
president, the Baron Du Potet, and they seemed to be much
more desirous of listening to a speech from the lips of the
man upon whom the mantle of Mesmer has fallen in the pre¬
sent generation, than to continue their usual experiments.
Consequently the experiments were abruptly broken off, and
the company then listened to a few remarks on mesmerism
by the Baron Du Potet, who is now in his eighty-fourth year,
but is as lively and active as a younger man.
This society of mesmerists in Paris was founded about six
months ago, under the honorary presidency of the Baron Du
Potet. The other officers are M. Angerville, acting pre¬
sident ; M. Donato, secretary; and M. Metayer, manager.
A journal called La Revue Magnetique Internationale reports
its proceedings ; it is published fortnightly, and is edited by
M. Durville. I notice that it unfortunately misuses the words
* electricity ” and “ magnetism/’ in applying them to psychic
phenomena, for if anything is scientifically proved beyond
doubt, it is that electricity and magnetism are not the forces
at work in the production of the said observed effects.
The French newspaper La LiberU announces that the
Countess d’Anvers,rwho died last week at Rome, had lost her
reason in consequence of attending Spiritualistic stances, and
taking up the idea that everybody wanted to poison her, con¬
sequently she starved herself. Is this true? Rumours to
her disadvantage were some years since circulated against
her which were proved to be false.
PUBLIC MEDIUMS.
We have received the following letter from J, G. Meugens, of
Penge:—
“ Sir,—Without wishing to express any opinion about the seances in
Holland that have lately been discussed in your columns, I feel it in¬
cumbent on me to state that I have been at several seances at Mrs.
Woodforde’s circle, when Mr. Williams was the medium, and I am ready
to affirm that the manifestations on those occasions were genuine beyond
the shadow of a doubt. Whatever may be the case now, I am as certain
of the absence of fraud then as I am of my own existence.
“ I think it the duty of all who have held sittings with recognised
mediums to say whether they have been satisfied with their experiences
or not, and as I leave next week for India, I wish to testify before I go
to the extreme pleasure and satisfaction I have experienced during my
sittings with Mrs. Woodforde. The first time I sat with her she
gave me an accurate description of my mother in the spirit-
world, although she did not know that I had lost my mother, as I
was speaking to her at the time of my mother as living, and she could
have no idea that the one I spoke of as my mother was my stej?-mother.
She further gave me particulars about a brother of mine in the spirit-
world, who passed away in infancy before I was born, and also of one
of my spiritual watches there, giving me a name I never heard of before.
I confess that I did not receive this latter fact until on three'separate subse¬
quent occasions it was confirmed through different channels, and through
mediums who could have had no knowledge of what Mrs. Woodforde had
told me. I regret that time does not admit of my sitting with her for
development as a medium, which is her speciality.
|) “I have also had seances with Mr. Fletcher and Mrs. Loomis, and
[ j | received from both of them tests sufficient to convince any sane man of
]! I the truth of Spiritualism.
| ( “I wish to put on record my indebtedness to Mrs. Woodforde, Mr.
| (I Fletcher, and Mrs. Loomis, for the uniform kindness, courtesy, and con-
| jj sideration I have received from them in pursuing my investigations.”
I 11 September 28th, 1878.
! | EMANATION.
II {From Ella Dietz9s il Triumph of Love9')
| [! Out of the depths of the Infinite Being eternal,
I n Out of the cloud more bright than the brightness of sun,
| (I Out of the inmost the essence of spirit supernal,
j [l We issued as one.
| (j First essence electric, concentric, revolving, subduing,
j We throbbed through the ether, a part of the infinite germ,
| (| Dissolving, resolving, absorbing, reforming, renewing,
I! i The endless in term.
i j] Through forms multifarious onward and ever advancing,
I j | Progressing through ether from molecule to planet and star,
I j Forms infinitesimal revealed by the sunbeam while dancing,
i Controlled from afar.
| Then part of the elements swayed by invisible forces,
| The spirit of flame interchangeably water and air,
And matter more gross, still moulded by stars in their courses,
J j To forms new and rare.
| Part of the salt of the sea—of the fathomless ocean—
1 (| Part of the growth of the earth, and the light hid within,
| | The Boundless and Endless revealed in each varying motion
j j Unknown yet to sin.
The breath of all life, harmonious, ductile, complying,
j I j Obedient lapsed in the force of the Infinite Will,
( i Untiring, unresting, incessant, unknowing, undying,
! 11 Love’s law we fulfil.
Spirit of growth in the rocks, and the ferns, and the mosses,
j i Spirit of growth in the trees, and the grasses, and flowers,
| (j Rejoicing in life, unconscious of changes or losses,
.j j j Of days or of hours.
| | Spirit of growth in the bird and the bee, ever tending
|j| To form more complex its beauty and use thus combined,
| j Adapted perfection, the finite and infinite blending,
| | One gleam from One Mind.
| | Thus spirally upward we come from the depths of creation,
| I j The man and the woman—the garden of Eden have found,
| | And joined by the Lord in an endless and holy relation
! (j Ensphered and made round.
i i The innermost law of their being fulfilling, obeying,
j | The King and the Queen, perfected, companioned, are crowned,
| i The Incomprehensible thus in expression conveying
j j Its ultimate bound.
i f [
| j Obedience still is the law of each fresh emanation,
I j The prayer to the Father, “ Not my will, but Thy will be done,”
! j Then deathless, immortal, we pass through all forms of creation,
i The twain lost in One.
j | ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
(j T. J.—Two of the interesting paragraphs you sent have not yet been printed,
}| because you have not introduced the name of the journal from which
(i you extracted them.
(| Mr. W. H. Harrison will have returned to London from France by next
} i Monday, and letters for him may now be addressed to 38, Great Russell-
( street, London, as usual.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
| observed at s'eances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
| of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
| “ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
! ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
I “Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for tho
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
I Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
I poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
j excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Ogt. 4, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST
ill
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. Gd.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Gd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William. Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as If living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no douht as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.”
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia .
The Teacher. „ II. „ .
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer.. „ IY. „ . .
The Thinker. .. Y. „ . . .
Magic Staffi An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . .
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
•Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .
Death and the After-Life . . . •
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Thilosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love ;• Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures ......
*. d.
, 15 0
. r g
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
, 2 6
.36
.,7 0
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Crlental Religions (Johnson) . . . . ..24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Smeitualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A, Tnn. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, MIA. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation or the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
throe vols. ... .... 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
SlHULTANEOUSLY "WITNESSED BY THE AUTHOR AND OTHER
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Ik. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Hontgomery-street,
Boston, TTiS.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientiflo man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp doth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS^
Chauteu I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter If Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumshlp of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV Materialisations In England—Medlumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief In Spirits—Immortality In the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr, C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Punphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena In America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Bane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Medlumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Tnistworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter xVl.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t<r
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin's discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot he had separately. Price,
carnage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s
London; W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON), ’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject,
Preface.
Introduction;
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences In Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
l.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. Jam.es Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—^Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Beniamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidenceoi
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises In Connection with it—Evidence of Hens-
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Coliyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, "W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 6s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O 1 Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne!)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta’’—Swedenborg q*
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marry at—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given thrown the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C, Mauvice
Davies, G.D.—The Ends, Alms and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthcdox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. B irke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , On .on.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallea)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzi;;) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harris an—
Meditation and the Voles of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Mas soy—
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy In Relation to Spiritualism
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe,
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLI0 MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed Information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will he
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.-
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 4, 1878,
NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE'-
.MATTJRE DEATH BY NATURAL MEAKS.
T ORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
FNO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO-
RxVTING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use END’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. END’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1S77.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
BYNO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“Since I have used END’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
E
NO’S' FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
“Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN.TftE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
JUNO’S FRUIT SALT,
. AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits trom which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations isj its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise,    
END’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and Is thus ot itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
•YT/'ORTHY of notice.—palpitation of
T i THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
erless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
out very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed, Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. —I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “W. B. Beckett.”
Aug. 80,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
C<AUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
■ Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Fowder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Far is— P H ARM AC IE DE bet? at,. 14, rue DE
LA PAIN.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enj oy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobolejaw BalladsNo one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic. .
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller,
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature,
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal qf Photography.
“(The Lazy Lays Include many admirable pieces, some of which
are'in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent. ... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine,
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle,
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses ali while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and"
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays-
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but:
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \_N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, isbound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late 'War. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I;—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—^Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology •
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—^Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Gol. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S nritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It. —“
CHAPTER IX:-Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric-Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—^Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination,Witchcrait, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
hulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Gdylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—^Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a SerfBus
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking-
Ciairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley's Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Wakmg
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII :—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding-
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George,
the Martyr, Lend m. and published by E, W Allen, Av#
Maria-lane, Londc c,E.O,
