Ksgistebed as a Newspaper.
SK© joUS^S^ ^di^Kds^.
W$t <®lb*st ^fco^Epr rxrtm^jEr bxtlj Spintwalism m <&xmt §nfam*
THE SPIRITUALIST is regular'.y on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : ii, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS. U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 268.—(Vol. XL-No. 15.) LONDON : FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1877.
(Contents.
Facts in Relation to Abnormal Slate-Writing. By Epes
Sargent 169
The Rending of the Curtain of Death. By Eugene
Crowell, M.D 171
Charity OrganisationTo the Residents of the Parish of
Clapham—Report—Illustrative Cases—Loans—Rules 178
Neweastle-on-Tyne Psychological Society ...  174
Slate-Writing Extraordinary. By Alfred Russel Wallace 174
Mr. Morse’s Benefit Soiree 174
“ Ten Years." By Florence Marryht. (Poetry.)  175
The Communion of the Living with the Dead  175
Mrs. Suydam, the Fire-Test Medium  176
PoetryAn “ Insectative’’Idyl  176
Correspondence:—M. A. Oxon’s Book—Charity Organisa¬
tion—Spiritualism in Ireland—Mesmerism—Astrology
—Provincial Notes, No. 2—Materialisation of Spirit
Heads, No. 13: Photography in the Dark—A Seance
in Boston   176
The Dublin University Magazine:—Amulets and Talis¬
mans   ... 179
Review:—Serious Letters to Serious Friends  180
The Hymn of the Brown Bird. By Edward S. Wheeler... 180
Answers to Correspondents ■ 180
Paragraphs:—Mr. Colville’s Trance Addresses, 174; Spirits
Setting Fire to a House, 176; Mr. Morse's Appoint¬
ments, 178; The National Association of Spiritualists,
179 ; Astrology 179
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the -Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
T^HE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;NIIis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain: Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital • Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Pardon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. O.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .’Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G-. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio,_ Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News-
paper Branch Office, 38. Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Works by the Countess op Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT,
Price 15s,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for October, 1877.
Friday, 5th.—Seance Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
,, „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6 30 p.m.
Saturday, 5th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 pm.
Tuesday, 5th.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.ra.
„ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 10f/t.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Thursday, lUh.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ Soiree Committee, at 6 p.m.
Friday, Vith.—Library Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 15th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
Wednesday, nth.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Friday, 15th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 20th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Co’ville, at 4 p.m.
Wednesday, 2ith.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Thursday, 55th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 55th.—Seance Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
,, „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 57th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
SEANCES FOR ENQUIRERS.
A series of three Seances for Enquirers will be held at 38,
Great Russell-street, on Wednesdays, October 10th, 17th, and
24th, Mr. 0. E. Williams, medium. Enquirers may have
tickets free, on application to the Secretary. Admission to
Members, Is. each.
SOIREES.
The Soirees will recommence in November. It is proposed
to invite friends to give short addresses c n some subject directly
connected with Spiritualism, in order to give these meetings
a more definite reference to Spiritualism than they have
hitherto had.
NEW MEMBERS.
Subscriptions paid before the end of the year by members
elected after this date will clear them up to the end of the year
1878.
October 10th, 1877. A. JOY, Acting Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of boobs on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to roles of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
  H. E. FRANCES, HON. SBC.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad-
dress, G. Sadler. 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. 
MR. J. J. MORSE’S BENEFIT SOIREE
Will be held at the
OAYENDISH ROOMS, MORTIMER STREET,
REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.,
On Wednesday Evening, October 17th.
Tickets, 2s. 6d., with tea; and Is. after half-past seven.
They can be had of Mrs. Maltby, 16, Southampton-street,
Fitzroy-square, and at the doors on the date of the Soiree.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED. ~
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
THE FOURTH SESSION
Will commence on Thursday, 1st November, 1877, at 8.30 p.m.,,
when the President will deliver his usual Opening Address.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
established 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President.
HENRY D. JENOKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton
Rooms—53, Sigdon Road, Dalston Lane, dalston,
London, E.
(Close to Hackney Downs Station, Great Eastern Railway,
and five minutes’ walk of Hackney Station, North London
Railway.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special stances with professional media, lectures, discus
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have'the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines aro
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary. *
• Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBO RN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hole at Separate Tables, every evening in the
' Grand Salon, the Prince's Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
As exhibited at the Oaxton celebration), is a self-inking one
and can easily bo worked by a child of ten. Ils work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens of type, <&c., iso., post free 13 stamps.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co., Patentees.
Show Rooms:—18, Liverpool Street, London, E.O.
Price fi'om .£3 to £9 10s.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING,
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S,
States (In the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by <
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
The soul, and how it found me ;
being a narrative of phenomena connected with the
production of England and Islam, by Edward Maitland.
Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes Issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCEOFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 12, 1877,
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester,
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs.,is), Cambridse-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., C, Loughborough-road
North. Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Jlonvwood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.ll.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, O. 0., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. I)., Kose-villa, Church-end, Einchlev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.T).,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, GeO., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adsbead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa. Cairns-rd.. New Wandsworth. S.W.
Ashton. E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newjsastlc-on-Tyne.,
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
BInney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Kenlngale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. IC, 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newtou, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmunds, T. H-. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fltton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Oerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
B'itz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Olendinning A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Haylc, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, ICennington-
park, S.E. •
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawkotii Win. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Mecrs, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Relmers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N„
Sa'awhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Grapville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange; Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withalt, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, XL, 1, 'The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South ICensington, S.W.
Auditors.
3. B. Andre, Esq, II. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de PEmpereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Balidjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguora, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veb, Bischoffsberger-villa. Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Banca Fenzi, Florence, Italy,
err Constantin Delhaz, Singersfrasse No. 7, Vienna, Italy.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co'.,New Jersey.U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, AVimillc. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq , M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A. r
Mrs. J. M. Snear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstan#s; Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2,Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee. U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M, de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthehne Fritz, President de PUnion, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe,- Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet. Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton. S.W.
The Spirlter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
'Prochaszka, Jbsefstadt’Erahgrzog AleSafldel’-gasse, 23, * -
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—Til Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7. Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
GRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
will be published as soon as Mrs. "W eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Da Maurier. Holman Hunt, Thomas
"Woolnor, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, "W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Oh. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISVI EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim «nd the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY AND Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Sjnritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. Cd. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spirit'ualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.   
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JLU logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
Cl, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.  
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Catnpden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired)
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.O.
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
71, Ppcock-street, Blackfriars-road, London.
R. J. HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasant,
East-road, City-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en¬
gagements to start seances and to develops mediums.
PSYCHOMETRY.—For delineation of cha¬
racter and information on development consult (if by
letter enclose photo and 10s. 6d. as fee) Mr. J. Skipsey, Ash-
ington Colliery, near Morpeth, Northumberland.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
R. J. COATES, the mesmerist, is about to
visit Ireland, calling at Belfast, Dublin, Cork, and
intermediate places en route. He will undertake the treat¬
ment of patients directly or under medical supervision; also
give sittings for the development of clairvoyance. Persons
desiring a visit will please write him at his address, 12, Lime-
street, Liverpool.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRIT¬
UALISTS.
l\/rUSICAL BOX.—A fine Musical Box,
TvJL eight-aired, and in good condition, to be RAFFLED
FOR. Thirty-two shares at half-a-crown each. A few shares
still to be disposed of. Application to be made at once to the
Secretary. 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300for Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6<7., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRTBHTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should he multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
HE FOOD THAT WE LIVE ON. In-
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird's-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Histosical, and Religious aspects (
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
FACTS IN RELATION TO ABNORMAL SLATE-WRITING.
* BY EPES SARGENT.
When Professor E. Ray Lankester snatched away the slate
from poor Slade, and rudely denounced him as an impostor,
he no doubt thought he had taken an important step towards
stamping out the “ pestilent delusion ” of Spiritualism. But
he only reawakened attention towards it; old investigators,
who had kept quiet for years, came forward and manfully
testified to what they knew; a brisk demand for spiritual
books and newspapers sprang up, and our facts instead of
being invalidated, were reaffirmed with added weight,
and multiplied and renewed with accelerated speed.
Slade was released on a law-quibble after his conviction
before the Bow-street magistrate, Mr. Flowers, who acknow¬
ledged that the testimony in favour of the phenomena was
“ overwhelming,” but insisted that he must decide accord¬
ing to what he knew of u the regular course of nature.”
Slade was hurried off to the Hague, and there and elsewhere
he has given irresistible proofs of the genuineness of the
phenomena in his presence, and has made many intelligent
converts. A few weeks ago, Slade, through his agent, in a
letter wholly unexceptionable, civil, and sincere in its tone,
wrote to Professor Lankester that he (Slade) would return to
London, and give him the most ample opportunities to re¬
investigate the phenomena, provided he would promise to
abstain from all further attempts to prosecute him as an
impostor, or to molest him in any way.
Here was a grand opportunity for Professor Lankester to
manifest his liberality and sincerity as a truth-seeker. True,
he and Mr. Donkin had formed unfavourable impressions;
but some fifty well-known Englishmen, including such men
as Serjeant Cox, Alfred R. Wallace, Dr. George Wyld, the
Rev. William Stainton-Moses, Mr. Hutton, of T/ie Spectator^
and others, had asserted their belief in the genuineness of
the phenomena, and publicly declared that their experiences
had been wholly different from those of Mr. LankSister and
his friend. Surely, under these circumstances, and consider¬
ing the new, unbiassed testimony that comes from the Hague,
there was abundant reason why Professor Lankester should
reconsider his somewhat hasty conclusions. But no ! He
had written a preface to one of Haeckel’s books, in which he
had avowed views wholly opposed to belief in a future life.
Must he now jeopardise the infallibility of those opinions ?
That would never do. It is a pity nevertheless that he was
not liberal and brave-hearted enough in the cause of truth,
to say to Slade, “ Come and give me the opportunity you
propose. I will no longer attempt to prevent the spread of
truth by keeping you out of England. There is indeed
overwhelming testimony from men of character and education
on your behalf. It comes not only from England and
America but from Holland, and from the latter place after
they have been made fully aware of your prosecution and
arrest in London. Come and let us calmly experiment.”
It is a pity, I repeat, that Professor Lankester did not
reply in this wise ; for, as surely as he lives ten years longer | j
he will have to look back upon his conduct towards Slade as a j |
blunder and a wrong; he will have to admit that the u pre- j j
tended ” phenomenon was in all probability a genuine one, j j
and that “ the babes and simpletons ” were in the right, and I j j
he, the austere, implacable, rigid physicist, was grossly, if m
not brutally, in the wrong. ' j!
Mr. Leslie Stephens, too, who prates of our u dabbling in | |
the filth of Spiritualism,” and Mr. Frederick Harrison, who j [ j
charges some of your English men of science with u grovelling j j
before the trickery of a Yankee conjuror,” will, before many I |
years, be forced by the stress of facts to take back seats in j j j
the temple of science, and adopt a very different tone in j j j
regard to our demonstrable phenomena. ! I
All this is merely introductory to that which I have to 11 j
tell you of Mr. Charles E. Watkins, medium, from Cleveland,
Ohio. On Tuesday, September 18th, 1877, I bought a new
slate, protected by pasteboard covers, and proceeded to No.
48, Beach-street, Boston, rang the bell and inquired for Mr.
Watkins. I was ushered upstairs into a small reception-
room, where Mr. Longley, his agent, told me that he
(Watkins) was engaged with a sitter, but would soon be at
leisure. In about three minutes, a young man entered,
smoking the stump of a cigar, and looking flushed and in a
bad mood.
In an off-hand and not very deferential tone, he asked
me to follow him upstairs. I had never seen him before,
and soon learnt that he had never seen me. He took me
into a very modest sleeping room, having two windows
fronting on Beach-street, the principle furniture of which
was a bed, a small table, a wash-stand, and two chairs.
A young, girlish-looking woman, with features remarkable
for their expression of an almost child-like guilelessness and
innocence, was introduced to me as Mrs. Watkins. My first
favourable impressions of her were fully confirmed by sub¬
sequent inquiries. After a polite greeting she left the room,
and Mr. Watkins and I were left alone. The noonday sun
was streaming in. It was about half-past 12 p.m., one of
our clear, bright September days.
Mr. Watkins still seemed flushed and excited. He paced
the room for a moment uneasily, and when I asked him
whether I could use the new slate I had brought, he replied,
not in the most conciliatory tone,—
“ If you choose to have me charge a dollar extra, you can
use it. It requires more effort—is more exhausting—when
I do not use my own well-charged slate.”
“ Very well,” said I, meekly, r We will take what
comes.”
ff I am depressed,” said he, still pacing the room; “ I
have had something to disturb me; I feel sulky.”
If there was acting in this, it was done with the art that
conceals art.
My patience and my cheery words at last seemed to have
their effect. He put his hand on my head for a moment, then
took his seat opposite to me at the table; then rose sud¬
denly, and standing off’ three feet from his chair, said :—
u Does your last name begin with S ? ”—<e Yes.”
“ Does your first name begin with E ? ”—u Yes.”
Then, his clouded face brightening, and a sweet smile
transfiguring it, u You are Epes Sargent f ” he exclaimed,
while the tears sprang to his eyes.—“ Yes; you are right.”
“ Forgive me all my rudeness and ill-humours,” said he,
cordially shaking my proffered hand. “ Come ; we will try
to get something good. Write half a dozen names on slips
of paper, and do it so that you will be sure I do not see you
write.”
Tearing off bits of paper, I wrote the names of six de¬
parted friends. I concealed the movement of my hand
while writing, though he had turned away without mani¬
festing the slightest wish to see me. (The Carpenterian
theory, you know, is that the medium guesses by the move¬
ment of your pencil what you have written.) Without
touching the pellets—only pointing at them with a slate-
pencil—Mr. Watkins gave me the name written on each. I
unfolded them one by one, and found that in every instance
he was right. There was no conceivable escape from this
proof of supersensual powers of vision somewhere.
He now handed me two slates, which I cleaned thoroughly
with a wet towel, which I had asked for. The theory that
by some chemical process there might be some writing upon
a slate ineffaceable by scrubbing, but made visible after a
minute or two, was wholly disproved by subsequent occur¬
rences. Mr. Watkins did not touch the slates after I had
washed them. He simply placed a crumb of slate-pencil
K
(r&
Jl of % Ipllll tf % J>$fP| nnh ||gp of Jljtiriltmfmr.
Volume J^i-even. Number Fifteejv.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12th, 1877.
170
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Oct. 12, 1877.
between them, and told me to hold them out at arm’s length.
This I did, first satisfying myself once more that they did
not bear the mark of a single letter on any of their surfaces.
I held the two joined slates out in my left hand, the medium
being some four feet distant from them. “ Do you hear
writing?” asked he. I put my ear down, and distinctly
heard the light scratching of the bit of slate-pencil. “ It
is finished,” .said he, as a slight rap came on the slate. I
did not see how there could have been time for more than a
simple name to have been written; but when I took one
slate from the other, there, on the surface of the lower slate,
was a letter of jifty-four words, signed with the name of a
deceased brother, which name I had not written down among
those on the pellets. The letter was characteristic, but gave
no startling proof of the writer’s identity. The hand¬
writing had a general resemblance to my brother’s, but I
omitted to take steps to compare it carefully before the
writing was rubbed out.
See how completely this simple, clear, fair and square
experience knocks into utter insignificence the Lankesterian
theory of fraud, of knee-writing, of the use of a bit of slate-
pencil wedged in under the finger nail! Mr. Watkins, as
hundreds of witnesses can now testify, has utterly demolished
and dismissed from the minds of careful, unprepossessed
investigators this stupid theory for ever.
A still better test was in store for me. The little slate, in
stiff pasteboard covers, which I had bought an hour before,
and brought with me, had rested untouched near my right
elbow on the table. Mr. Watkins now took it up, lifted a
cover, put a crumb of slate-pencil on the surface of the
slate, closed the cover, and handed the slate to me. I know
that there was no manipulation, no delay, no possibility of
trick on his part. I know that no 11 prepossession” or ex¬
pectancy of my own was a possible factor in the case, if I
can be permitted to use my reason in saying so. I looked
at the slate on both sides—satisfied myself (though there
was no occasion for this under the circumstances) that it
had not been tampered with, then held it out, and the name
written on it was Anna Cora Mowatt, afterwards Ritchie,
whose funeral I attended at Kensal-green in London, when
Mr. Yarley, Mr. D. D. Home, Mrs. Cox, Mr. Harrison, and
other Spiritualists were present.
I held my own slate out a second time, and then came
the words My dear brother.—Yours, Lizzie A Her name
had not been even written or uttered by me up to this time.
Lizzie was the name by which we had always called her,
though she usually signed herself Elizabeth.
Again 1 held out my own slate, and there came the words:
—“ My dear son, God bless you. Your father who loves you
dearly.—Epes Sargent.”
During these intervals the slate was held by me, and
there was no possible way by which any human trick or
jugglery could have been practised. The sunshine still
streamed into the room; the medium sat there before me ;
no other person was present. No more stringent conditions
could have been demanded even by Messrs. Lankester and
Donkin. The medium, however, writhed as if in torture
every time the slate-writing took place. It was evidently
accompanied by some powerful nervous excitement on his
part.
Mr. Chas. E. Watkins is twenty-nine years old, and a man
of a highly nervous and sensitive temperament. He is a
far different person intellectually from what I had been led
to expect. He showed, by flashes, a high order of mind,
and I regret that I could not have taken down in short-hand
some of his remarks.
He now took my slate, and, after I had re-examined it,
he held it out in his own hand, and in less than ten seconds
one side was fully covered with a letter from my sister
Lizzie. Here it is :—
Spirit-land.
My Dear Brother,—
I come to you this morning with my heart full of love for you, and
I think that perhaps you may believe that it is me, your own sister.
George is here with me. Your loviog sister,
Lizzie.
If you ever doubt spirit communion look at this slate.
Four sister,
Lizzie.
I still have the slate, with the writing unefifaced. There
| | were no punctuation marks, but the word believe was under-
m lined. The whole was written in less than twelve seconds.
H I I cannot say whether the expression It is me would have
jjj been used by my sister. It is defended by some gramma-
4 j rians as quite as proper as the French Cest moi.
11 Other curious things took place at this my first and, as
If yet, only sitting; but I have no time at present to describe
| [ them. The next evening (Wednesday) Mr. and Mrs.
| | Watkins, with their agent, took tea with us at our house, I
| | having engaged him to give a sitting to my wife. He had
I | had nine sitters that day, however, and felt the need of
| | relaxation; so I deferred the formal sitting, and we had a
| I pleasant evening, giving Watkins full freedom to act out his
| f I peculiarities. He is a nervous, restless creature, thin and
j i wiry in his form, and apparently unable to sit still five
| | minutes at a time.
| | Once he started up and moved about the room as if
j I followed by something. “What is the meaning of this?”
i | said he. “ Here is a dog—a black dog—following me about;
j j he is so large”—indicating his size by stretching apart his
I hands. “ He answers to the name of Rock.”
I No possible clue had Watkins had to this discovery. Poor
I | Rock! He was a splendid black-and-tan-coloured setter,
|| who had often entered my library (where we were now
| seated), put up his nose as if to see what I was writing, and
j then gone quietly off after getting a pat on the head from
| me. He was the best-behaved, most intelligent, and gentle-
| manly dog I ever knew. He died from being poisoned some
! months ago. He belonged to the son of a lady (Mrs. W.),
| who had been at the tea-table with us that evening, and
I who was sitting talking with Mr. Longley in the next room,
| while my wife, her brother, and I were listening to Watkins.
| He seemed highly elated and amused by this canine identi-
| fication, and ran, boy-like, and asked Mrs. W. if she had a
f | coloured friend in the other world.
| My wife found Mrs. Watkins an unsophisticated, inter-
I esting little lady, only twenty years old, a country girl
i j whom Watkins had met and married in the little village of
j | Florence, in Massachusetts, a year ago. She is exercising
II an excellent influence over him—strange, wayward, impul-
11 sive creature that he is. Said she to Mrs. Sargent, “ He
11 has been cast off by his own mother, who is very orthodox, and
11 whom he dearly loves; but I hope to be both a mother and
11 a wife to him.” The words coming from this little gentle,
11 delicate person who does not look more than seventeen, were
i i almost ludicrously pathetic.
Within the week I have sent my brother James to get a
[I sitting, also my friend John L. Shorey. Both got tests
11 equally good with my own. Both got the independent slate-
! writing, under the strict, simple, and conclusive conditions
|| I have named. My brother received a characteristic letter
r from our father, in which the signature had his peculiarities,
I shown in a “ long s,” extending below the line, and a very
II peculiar 11 g.”
Watkins, who left the room while my brother wrote out
his slips and rolled them tightly up into pellets, had not
touched or seen one of them.
“That is an ancient name,” said he re-entering, and
| pointing to a pellet, without touching it. My brother
| thought of Abel Ball, one of the names he had written. “ I
will write the name on a slate, said Watkins ;” and, much to
| my brother’s surprise, he wrote it—Arria Sargent. It was
right, as was found on unfolding the pellet. The name
| Arria had been introduced into our family from an old en-
| graving which I remember, when a boy, seeing on the wall at
| the house of my great uncle (bearing my name), and illus-
| trating the story of “ Arria and Pcetus” in Roman history.
I The Emperor has ordered Poetus to stab himself. Arria
| snatches the dagger from her husband’s hand and stabs her¬
self, saying, “ It is not difficult, Pcetus.” Well might the
| medium call it an ancient name.
Mr. Shorey had written the name of a deceased friend
I with whom he had had many discussions on Spiritualism,
| and who had tried to convince him of its truth. The message
written and signed (Mr. Shorey holding the slate) was—
“ You see it is all true.”
I could tell you of a Greek gentleman, a professor in one
I of our institutions, who got a message in modern Greek from
Oot. 12, 1877,
THE SPIKITUALIST.
171
his grandfather, every accent rightly marked, and the words |ji
all correct. ill
I could tell you of a Swedish gentleman, a commissioner j||
at the great Philadelphia Centennial Exhibition, who got a lli
satisfactory message in Swedish. j j
The proofs that the intelligence operating is independent 11
of the medium’s mind are so direct and various that we j !
cannot resist them. We have heard bad things of Watkins; j j
that, for money, he has been as ready to turn “exposer” of ! I
Spiritualism as defender ; that he has attempted sham mate- | |
rialisations, &c., &c. But if he should come out to-morrow ] [
and declare that his slate-writing was all jugglery, it would j j
not make the slightest impression on me, or on some hundred I |
other investigators, unless he could teach us how to produce If
the same thaumaturgic results under the same conditions. j |
According to his own expressions, he has been a “ wild, j |
bad, wicked, reckless fellow; but my little wife is curing j j
me,” he adds. He is certainly the most remarkable medium j j
(Foster excepted) I have ever met; and he gives the fairest, | |
simplest, most scientific, and incontestable proofs of the j j
operation of a psychic or spiritual force, independent of all I j
possibilities of trick, prepossession, jugglery, collusion, or I j
illusion. He fears no sceptical influence; he is eager to meet j |
Lankester, Carpenter, or any one we can name; and, what- | j
ever his past may have been, there can be no doubt of his j |
wonderful medial power. I j
Just before my brother entered the medium’s room on j j
Wednesday (Sept. 19th), a Mr. Maxfield, from Maine, a man ! j
of excellent character, but a confirmed atheist, had had a j j
sitting. Watkins allowed him to write a number of names, j j
he Watkins, leaving him alone in the room. Watkins now j j
re-enters, and says : “ You have mixed those pellets so that (j
you cannot tell which is which?” “Yes.” “You are m
certain that I have not seen or touched one of them?” | |
“ Yes.” “ If you hold out one of them, and I tell you the | I
name and the relationship the writer bears to you, what j j
shall you say?” “I shall believe.” “Open that pellet, j j
then, and you will find the name ” (giving it in full) “ of j |
— Maxfield, your father.” j j
Mr. Maxfield opened the pellet, saw the name, turned
pale, covered his face with his hands, and wept like a child, j j
The atheism and unbelief of years were shivered as by a j j
lightning stroke. “Now stop that,” said Watkins, “and j j
let me tell you the names on all the other pellets you have
iri your hand.” And one by one he gave every name j j
correctly. Mr. Maxfield came again in the afternoon, and j|
got further striking tests. As he is to write out himself a j
full account of his experiences, I will say no more.
Miss Kislingbury has been twice to take tea with us and { j
pass the evening, and we have been charmed with her fresh i j
enthusiasm, her intelligence, and her clear views in regard to j |
Spiritualism. She left us September 13th for the mountains, j j|
as our city weather was quite hot, and she felt the need of an j j
invigorating air. I regret she could not have waited to see H
Watkins. He regrets it too. I must close now with greetings j j
to all good Spiritualists among your readers.
No. 68, Moreland-street, Boston, Mass. ! j j
THE RENDING OF THE CURTAIN OF DEATH *
BY EUGENE CROWELL, M.D. | j j
The sympathy of all enlightened and true Spiritualists is j j
excited when they reflect upon the dark pall that obscures j j
the vision of the majority of their fellow men upon this | j
momentous question of the continued existence, and presence, j
and agency of their deceased friends. How many, oppressed j
with gloom and sorrow, are ready to exclaim :—
0, if the dead were allowed to speak !
Could I only look on their faces meek,
How it would strengthen my heart so weak.
To such we would reply in the words of Mrs. Hemans :—
Hast thou been told that from the viewless bourne
The dark way never hath allowed return;
That all which tears can move with life is fled;
That earthly love is powerless on the dead,—
Believe it not.
Through Mrs. Conant, a spirit, in a message to her
surviving husband, said:—
“ When death came for me my mortal companion said:
(It is dark ! all dark! All the light has gone out. I am
left in utter darkness and desolation.’ And in his great
agony he cried out to know where that light had gone.
He said: c 0 God, answer my prayer! ’ And through
returning angels God did answer it, and he beheld the light,
and he rejoices in the knowledge that it lives and sheds
glimmerings through his mortal pathway, and will return to
meet him when his hour of change shall come, and light him
through the passage of death, and make gloriously bright
the spirit-world for him. I am Minnie, wife of Professor
Gunning.”
Surely, to be able to answer this question of spirit existence
and presence, and love, the toil and labour of a whole life
should count as nought. Millions would give largely of
their time and means if this would ensure to them a solution
of this all-important question, yet like men groping in the
dark, they pass and repass the multiplied proofs which lay
scattered in their way, and in their blindness utterly fail to
discern them; and many are like the rustic, who, having
once been deceived in mistaking a counterfeit for a genuine
coin, afterward refused to pick up a true coin which lay in
his way.
Hackneyed as the phrase is, it is nevertheless true that
every intelligent human being has, or has had, a mission to
perform—duties to discharge toward God, himself, and his
fellow-men. This is a law of our being, and every one who
fails to act in compliance with it must pay the penalty.
And this law is equally binding in heaven as on earth, the
only difference being that in heaven its requirements are
often extended, and not only is love to God and to each other
demanded, but also, according to the talents and oppor¬
tunities bestowed, guidance and assistance to the inhabitants
of earth. Thus we are in error when we imagine that we
shall ever be freed from the obligations of duty. Heaven is
no place for the indolent; their natures must change before
they can progress. There ceaseless, but joyous activity ever
exists, and it is well for us to exert ourselves here in every
good work, so as to readily adapt ourselves to the active
duties, as well as joys of that life.
That workers are sometimes intentionally transferred from
this field of labour to that in spirit-life, I have no doubt
whatever; and sometimes when the burdens of life become
too heavy to be borne, God in His wisdom takes the weary
traveller home; and here again he accomplishes the work
through the agency of ministering spirits. I am fully aware
with what incredulity this opinion will be received by some,
but many separate and independent proofs have forced the
conviction of its truth upon my mind. I fully believe that
kind and sympathising spirit-friends often weaken the
attraction, and sever the connection between the spirit-body
and its earthly casket. Nor do I stand alone in my opinions
upon this subject, for good orthodox Christians have held
similar opinions. The Rev. Samuel Watson, D.D., in his
work, Tfie Clock Struck One, p. Ill, says:—
“ I shall never forget the sermon preached by the Rev.
Dr. Winans, in the city of New Orleans, over thirty years
since. It was the funeral of Rev. Elijah Steel, who sacri¬
ficed his life visiting the sick and dying of yellow fever there.
Said the immortal Winans : ‘ Elijah Steel did much in this
city for the sick and dying, by pointing them to Christ; but
he has entered upon a much larger field of usefulness. He
can now with the rapidity of thought go as a pure minister¬
ing spirit to the same great work in which he sacrificed his
life. Whenever God has more use for His servants in the
spiritual world than He has here, He takes them to labour in
the same glorious cause, with greatly enhanced facilities,
doing His will on earth as it is done in heaven.’ ”
Dr. Watson adds : “ I was sojourning in the sunny clime,
expecting to fall a victim to that scourge of the human
race—consumption. This view of that subject removed the
last difficulty in my way of dying. If that is to be my mission
still, let me pass over the river and enter upon it, I thought,
as the preacher spoke of the glorious privilege conferred upon
the servants of Christ to be as the angels, messengers of God
to minister to loved ones on earth. This has afforded me
| more comfort than anything from that time to the present.”
At one time a spirit said to me : “ When persons are very
unhappy, with no work on earth to accomplish, their loving
♦From Crowell's Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism, Vol. II.
172
THE SPIKITUALIST.
QcT. 12, 1877.
spirit-friends sometimes weaken the mutual attraction be¬
tween spirit and body, and thus cause them to pass away
before their time.”
One day in October, 1873, r>r. Kenney called upon me,
and informed me that on the previous day he had been
called to treat a gentleman who had been attacked by apo¬
plexy, giving his name and place of residence—a short
distance from Brooklyn—and stating that he, Dr. Kenney,
had there felt and acted strangely, and that he could not
account for it. The patient was a wealthy and highly
esteemed gentleman, and when Dr. Kenney arrived and saw
him, he was strongly of the opinion that he could save him,
and he equally desired to do so; this arising in part from
his realising that success in the treatment of the case would
add to his reputation and increase his business, which at
that time was not what it has since become. There had
been three physicians in attendance, only one remaining ;
and this gentleman having before met Dr. Kenney, at once
requested him to attempt the cure of the patient, as he
himself could do no more for him. He complied with the
request of the physician, and approached the bed where the
patient lay insensible, with stertorous breathing, and placed
his hand upon his stomach, when a commotion was almost
immediately perceptible in that region, accompanied with
symptoms of nausea. He felt that the effect was favourable,
but was irresistibly drawn from the patient and became
seated, and in a few moments after arose with the intention
of approaching him again, but involuntarily turned towards
the window, and from there he was impelled to move aim¬
lessly about the room.
The friends of the patient urged him to attempt some
measures for the relief of the sufferer, and he was equally
with them anxious to do something for him; but he was
compelled to constantly change his position, look out of the
window, or pass into the adjoining room, then return, re¬
sume his seat, and then recommence and repeat the same
movements ; and while he felt and knew that “ Old John ”
desired to come, he at the same time was conscious of
another contending influence adverse to his own wishes, and
those of the spirit that ordinarily controls him. Actuated
by these conflicting feelings, and excessively annoyed and
abashed at his own strange conduct, he heard the signal
announcing the approach of a train of cars, when in his
confusion and excitement he caught up his hat, rushed from
the house, and proceeded hurriedly to the depot and returned
home.
His object in calling upon me was to ascertain my opinion
of the matter, and after some reflection I stated that 1 could
come to no other conclusion than that while he and his
spirit control were desirous of attempting the relief of the
patient, there were other spiritual intelligences superior to
Bis control—probably friends of the sufferer—who for rea¬
sons of their own were equally desirous that nothing should
be done, and that they cast an influence over him which
prevented him from attempting anything.
A few days after his visit I called upon him when Old
John controlled him, and told me that such was the fact;
that he knew he could relieve the patient, but that the spirit
friends of the latter desired to have him join them, as he had
no further work to accomplish in this life, was well prepared
to enter spirit life, and was unhappy in certain relations
here, and so they prevented his doing anything for him.
The gentleman died within two days thereafter.
Sometimes, on the other hand, the strong affection and
will of earthly friends become obstacles, and delay the
departure of the spirit. An estimable lady, an intimate
friend of mine, when dying, exclaimed to her weeping
sister0 Nancy! don’t hold me back; I want to goto
mother!”
A few years since the three sisters Cary were living
together in New York. Elmina first died. A few years
thereafter Alice passed away, leaving Phoebe apparently in
robust health, but she soon followed. Remarking upon the
illness and death of the latter, the Christian Union of Aug.
9th, 1871, said :—“ Phoebe was in many respects a contrast
to her sisters. There seemed to be more iron in her mental as
well as in her physical composition In brief, she was a
hearty, wholesome woman, and would have been esteemed
by all the world ? as well as those who knew her best, in
body, mind, and soul, robust But a change was in
preparation. A shadow unseen was creeping toward her.. ..
She had based all her most deliberate calculations on the
expectation of many years of life, and yet, when friends and
physicians spoke hopefully to her of recovery, she replied
that she knew of no reason why she should not recover,
except that she neither found, nor could excite, any desire
in herself to do so, and this she said with a sort of wonder.
To a friend she remarked: ” Alice, when she was here,
always absorbed me, and she absorbs me still. I feel her
constantly drawing me.” She is now one of those of whom
she wrote:—
The vail of flesh that hid,
Is softly drawn aside ;
More clearly I behold them now
Than those who never died.
Who died 1 What means that word,
Of men so much abhorred 1
Caught up in clouds of heaven to be
For ever with the Lord.
We worship God and pray to Him for His blessing and
grace. We invoke the intercession of the saints, and pray
God that through them He will impart to us like purity,
love, and strength. We know them to be endowed with a
larger and more expanded spirituality than we possess, and
to exist in closer relationship with the Source of all power,
wisdom, and love. We are weak, while they are strong.
We are surrounded and hemmed in with the temptations
and defilements of earth-life, while they enjoy the happi¬
ness and freedom of an exalted existence. They have ex¬
perienced, and still remember similar trials to those which
beset us, and have passed to a superior plane where they
can estimate their force with impartiality, and with the
warmest sympathy for us in our weakness and suffering.
Having the power to assist us, and knowing their desire to
do so, what more rational and becoming than to ask their
assistance, and especially when we further know that the
desire and request on our part increases their ability to help
us. The child looks to the parent, the weak to the strong,
the inexperienced to those of experience for counsel and
advice, for direction and assistance. We are children in
knowledge; we are weak and inexperienced. We need
counsel and assistance, and when we are blest with power¬
ful and wise friends who stand ready to aid us, is it wise or
prudent for us to disdainfully reject the proffered aid, and
continue to blindly grope and stumble when our paths could
be made plain and clear ? I think not. We should highly
appreciate the beneficent provision of the Divine Father,
through which we can obtain comfort and strength from this
source in our difficulties, and joyfully and thankfully avail
ourselves of the means thus furnished by Him; and those
who have the full knowledge and proper appreciation of this
great privilege, can only view with eyes of pity those who
in their blindness are unable to perceive how fruitful of good
the ministry of angels is to man.
That professed Christians, who believe in the Bible as the
Word of God, should reject the doctrine of spirit com¬
munion, and deny the daily fulfilment of the promise that
“ He shall give His angels charge concerning thee,” is in¬
defensible—inexcusable—when that volume, from Genesis
to Revelation, is replete with the teachings and proofs of
this communion, of this watchful care and guidance. All
that we claim as substantially true can be as well proven
from the records of the Bible as from the observation and
experience of men in the present age, provided the Bible
narrations of spiritual manifestations be admitted as authen¬
tic and reliable. We there find that both good and evil
angels or spirits exist—that both have had intercourse with
mortals—that good angels minister to men’s necessities—
that dark spirits tempt to evil—and that every man deter¬
mines by his thoughts, actions, and desires, which class of
these he will have for his helpers, advisers, and associates.
Choose ye between them.
I feel their touch upon ray hair,
Upon my cheek and on my brow j
X know that they are everywhere,
That they are with me even now.
The air grows softer as they move,
The day seems brighter when they come,
And all my soul melts into love,
And longs for its immortal home.
Oct. 12, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
173
CHARITY ORGANISATION.
To assist in the investigation of the important questions raised by
Mr. S. C. Hall, we quote as follows the greater part of the 1876 Report
of the Clapham Society for Organising Charitable Relief and Repressing
Mendicity
TO THE RESIDENTS OP THE PARISH OP CLAPIIAM.
The committee earnestly hope that you will assist them by refusing to
administer any charity without inquiry into the case of the person
demanding it, indiscriminate relief being one of the main stimulants to
pauperism and vagrancy.
The committee will make the necessary inquiry free of expense,
whether you subscribe to its funds or not.
The committee ask for your co-operation in the following manner:—
1. Give tickets instead of money to beggars in the streets, or to per¬
sons begging under the pretence of selling small articles.
2. Should you feel disposed to place reliance upon the statements of
mendicants who refuse the society’s tickets, ask for their names and
addresses. If such names and addresses be sent to the office, a report
upon the case will, if requested, be sent to you. Tickets can be obtained
at the office gratis.
3. Should any person apply for relief at your houses, either by letter
or otherwise, please to send such letter, or the necessary information to
the office. The case will be investigated, and a report, if requested, sent
for your information.
The object of the society is not to check benevolence, but to assist the
public in directing it into channels where it will do good instead of
harm. Office—73, Bromell’s-road, Clapham, London.
The committee cannot repeat too often that they are ready to investi¬
gate for anybody, whether a subscriber or not, every application for
assistance, or case of apparent distress or embarrassment, and to report
the result to the person referring the case to them. It matters not
whether the applicant resides in Clapham or elsewhere—if the former the
case is investigated by the committee themselves and their agent; if the
latter it is referred to the proper district committee.
Tickets are enclosed with this report (and more may be had on appli¬
cation) which entitle the bearer to have his or her case investigated, and
dealt with, and in all necessary cases to receive relief in food imme¬
diately.
REPORT.
The committee, in presenting their seventh annual report, have to
thank the inhabitants of Clapham for the support which has been con¬
tinued to them, and for the funds which have enabled them to carry on
their work. They would at the same time point out that there are cases
occasionally brought before them in which a very considerable expendi¬
ture is needed, in order to produce the permanent benefit which is
ever the principal object of the committee; and that with larger funds
they would be better able to deal with such cases, and sometimes even
to lift a whole family out of a state of misery and wretchedness, with
a good hope that a fresh start under different circumstances, and
possibly in another country, would bring them prosperity and happi¬
ness, and thus relieve the community at large from the pernicious in¬
fluence and painful spectacle of hopeless and degraded poverty.
The number of cases dealt with during the past year (111 resident,
745 non-resident and vagrant) is not so great as in some former years.
This is, undoubtedly, in part due to the fact that the principles upon
which the committee act are better understood, and that, in consequence,
the lazy, dissolute, and impostors, knowing that every case is carefully
investigated, no longer make applications, which surely result in the
exposure of their own idleness, improvidence, and drunkenness. At the
same time the committee feel that the number of resident cases dealt
with in the year is not so great as might be expected, and that their
organisation is not utilised so much as it should be by those interested
in the condition of the poor, or to whom charitable appeals are made.
They would gladly have both more personal help and more work. It is
their desire that all the inhabitants should make greater use of the
knowledge they have accumulated, and of the services of the committee
and their agent; and they would heartily welcome any who would join
them, attend their meetings, and help to extend the knowledge of their
work, and give it greater strength and wider influence. It is but too
certain that there are still many mendicants, impostors, and worthless
characters, who, although they ought to be left to the operation of the
Poor Law, too often succeed in diverting to their own use the charity
which should be reserved for the brave strugglers with poverty, misfor¬
tune, and sickness—the unobtrusive and patient bearers of troubles and
evils which have come upon them through no fault of their own, and
which they are powerless to prevent. They would ask all into whose
hands this report may come to do what they can—by making the work
of the committee known to others, by dissuading the kind-hearted from
giving without inquiry, and especially by availing themselves of the in¬
formation at the command of the committee, and of the services of the
agent in the case of all applications made to them for help—to extend
the range of the society’s influence, and thus aid in the directing the
bounty of the benevolent to worthy objects, and in protecting them from
the imposition to which they are so liable.
Before entering into details of the work of the last year, the com¬
mittee would again remind their subscribers that organisation, investi¬
gation, and the acquisition and supply of information to all engaged in
any charitable work in Clapham, and to all from whom help is asked
(and the long notoriety of the inhabitants for charity and liberality
specially expose them to such requests), need their chief care, and take
up most of their time and attention. It is for these purposes that an
office, an officer, and subscriptions are needed; but as there are yet, and
probably will long continue to be, many cases brought under their
notice in which the help needed cannot be obtained from any of the
charities or charitable agencies of Clapham, the committee would point
out, as they have done before, in what way their own relief and help
is given.
It may be classed under three heads
1. The relief always afforded to tramps and street beggars, who call
at the office with or without a ticket, who have as much bread as they
can eat. This relief is given not only for the sake of the mendicant, but
for that of the inhabitants of the district. Formerly, when a charitable
person was accosted by a beggar with a piteous tale of starvation,
although it was impossible to test the truth of the story, and although
it might be surmised that the applicant was probably an impostor, yet
the fear lest the distress might be real usually led to a compromise of
the gift of a penny or a halfpenny. The sums thus collected by trading
on the ieelings of the charitable often far exceeded the wages of an artisan,
and the profession was lucrative and attractive. As a natural conse¬
quence, Clapham was infested with beggars from all parts of London;
now, the certainty that any beggar can immediately get bread for asking
has removed the only plea for a dole. The inhabitants have accordingly
ceased, as a rule, to give to street beggars; these have, consequently, not
found their visits sufficiently profitable, and a change has been effected
hardly credible to those who do not remember the former condition of
the parish in this respect.
2. The second class of relief is that given to help families or indi¬
viduals over a temporary distress, without compelling them to resort to
the Poor Law. This relief is only given after the fullest investigation.
3. The third kind of relief is that given to aid families or individuals
to improve their position permanently, by enabling them to get work, to
migrate to parts of the country where work may be had, to emigrate, to
provide them with necessary tools or stock-in-trade, to put out their
children, and the like. This assistance is given either by grants or
loans. In either case the money is actually expended by the agent, who
sees that the intentions of the committee are really carried out.
The committee cannot conclude their report without expressing their
great regret at having lost during the last year Mr. Richard Simpson,
who had been honorary secretary for more than five years, and whose
services, always valuable, were especially so in their early days, when
their work was heavier, and the committee were without the experience
by which, after seven years’ existence, they were guided and aided.
Those only who worked with Mr. Simpson, and turned to him often for
advice and help, can fully estimate the value of his services during
these past years, or truly appreciate the loss which the committee have
sustained by his death.
During the past year the committee received 111 applications from or
on behalf of residents; 745 non-residents applied at the office, of whom
612 were relieved with bread.
1876. 1875.
Non-residents  745 579
Relieved with bread ... ... ... ... 612 472
Not relieved, for various reasons   133 107
ILLUSTRATIVE CASES.
“ A widow, supporting her aged mother, lost her work temporarily as
drsssmaker through small-pox in her house. Relieved to the extent of
£2, and sewing machine redeemed from pledge.
“ A young woman, having come from Ireland, and not having succeeded
at two situations, was assisted to return home to her mother at a cost of
£1 13s. 6d., independently of substantial help from a gentleman, who
found her without friends in England, and brought the case to notice.
“A washerwoman, temporarily disabled through a poisoned thumb,
was relieved to the extent of £1.
“A cabman, laid up with rheumatic fever, having a wife and several
young children, was assisted during illness to the extent of £3 2s. Is
now restored to health, and has resumed work.
“ A labouring man, out of work, with wife and several sick children,
was assisted, by food and boots for children, to the extent of £1 17s.,
and employment got for the husband.
“ A working man was sent to sea-side for the benefit of his health, at
a cost of £2 Is., has returned home, and resumed work.
LOANS.
“Loan of £20, in two instalments of £10 with good security, to a
person keeping a second-hand wardrobe shop, to enable him to purchase
stock. More than one-half of loan already repaid.
“Loan of £10 to a person to enable her to purchase necessary cloth¬
ing to take up a situation as governess in a gentleman’s family. Loan
repaid.
“ Loan of £1 8s. to a young woman to enable her, with money she
had in hand, to purchase a sewing machine. Loan nearly repaid.
“ Loan of £l 10s, to a widow, to enable her to purchase some articles
necessary for carrying on laundry work.
“ A stonemason and family, who were assisted to emigrate to New
Zealand in 1875, by a loan of £5, are now doing well and have repaid
the loan with many thanks.”
The loans for 1876 were £39 Is. 6d., and the repayments £25 6s. 6d.
For 1875, loans £13 Is., repayments, £22 3s. 6d.
RULES.
1. That a charity office be established in a central position in the
parish.
2. That one or more properly accredited charity officers be appointed
by the committee, who shall be responsible for the investigation of all
cases coming before the committee, and shall be in communication with
the relieving officer and agents of the various charities in the parish.
3. That the charity office shall be open to applicants every week-day,
at such stated hours as the committee shall determine; and that a
charity officer shall be in attendance during those hours to receive appli¬
cations.
4. That tickets, bearing the address of the charity office, be supplied
to the householders in the parish for distribution, and that the cases of
174
THE SPIRlTtTALISl\
Oct. 12, 1877.
all applicants presenting themselves with tickets at the charity office
shall be investigated and reported to the committee.
5. That the committee (or a sub-committee to be appointed for that
purpose) do meet at least once in every week to consider and deal with
all cases investigated and referred to them by the charity officer or the
Board of Guardians.
6. That all cases properly belonging to the Poor Law shall be at once
referred to the Guardians, and that in general the committee do not sup¬
plement the relief given by the Guardians.
7. That as a rule the committee will only entertain the cases of per¬
sons resident in the parish.
8. That all cases that can appropriately be dealt with by any existing j,
charity within the parish shall be referred to such charity, and that i <
relief shall only be granted by the committee in cases which cannot j'
properly be dealt with by any other agency. j
9. That during the interval between the meetings of the committee,
the charity officer have discretion to grant temporary relief to cases jj
which upon inquiry seem to demand it, and that immediate relief be |
afforded in all urgent cases. All such relief to be reported to the com- 1 (
mittee at their next meeting. I)
10. That a complete alphabetical register of all cases resident in the j)
district, inquired into by the charity officer, or relieved either by the i (
committee, or from any other source as to which information can be jj
obtained (exclusive of any cases which may be expressly excepted by j)
the committee), be kept at the charity office, and be open to the inspec- j j
tion of the relieving officer, agents of charities, and all persons interested I j
in the administration of charity in the parish. i)
11. That besides dealing with cases in which application is made at i)
the charity office, the committee will endeavour, as far as possible, to i j
reach the cases of deserving and necessitous persons who may shrink j <
from applying for relief. j j
12. That the committee shall endeavour at all times to work in jj
harmony with the Board of Guardians and existing charities, and, so j(
far as possible, to avoid interfering with them in their respective spheres i j
of action. i j
13. That indiscriminate charity be discouraged within the parish, as j (
being bad in principle and injurious in its effects. jj
14. That application be made to all householders in the parish for |
subscriptions to provide the necessary funds to carry on the work of the j (
committee. j j
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY. jj
The annual meeting of this society was held Oct. 3rd, at Weirs’- jji
court, Newgate-street, Mr. John Mould, President, in the chair.
The minutes of the last quarterly meeting having been read and jj i
confirmed, the Secretary read the report for the past six months, of j) j
which the following is an abridgment:—“The reorganisation of this jj
society continues to receive the marked approval which was manifested j j j
during the first quarter, when the number of members rose to 80; they i) j
have still further risen this quarter, and the number of subscribing jj
members on your books now stands at 118; there are also thirteen j j
honorary members, and three life members. The lectures have been j)
43 in number; 33 of which were trance, and 10 normal addresses, j j j
There has been a great variety of speakers. The seance department j j j
goes on satisfactorily, thanks to Miss Fairlamb, who continues to give j j j
good seances for form manifestations. We have, however, been deprived ! j j
of the services of Miss Wood, since the unfortunate Blackburn affair; jj!
but we have had too much experience of her to do otherwise than j)
welcome her when she returns. Your committee congratulates you on j j
the result of your efforts on behalf of the Indian Famine Belief Fund, j j
Your librarian reports that, by the aid of various donations in books j j
and cash, and by collections at lectures in aid of the library by Messrs, j j
Morse and Colville, there is a total of 112 volumes on your shelves ; jj
87 volumes have jbeen issued to members during the past half-year, jj
and 28 have the loan of a book each at the present time. He also reports j j
that he has received from the above-named sources, £8 9s. 2d.; has ij
expended in new books, £7 7s. 9d.; and has a balance in hand of £1 Is. 5d. j j
Your auditors having duly examined the treasurer’s accounts, report them j
correct, and to be as follows:—Dr.—To balance in hand, £7 17s.; col- j
lections, £37 3s. 4fd.; subscriptions, £18 14s. lid.; cash from Debating jj
Society, £2; cash from pic-nic, £4 13s. 8d.; total, £70 8s. llfd. Cr. ij
—By lectures (fees, fares, and entertainment), £38 5s. 6d.; advertise- jj
ments, printing, and posting, £5; rent, rates, and gas, £12 17s. 5d.; j
woman for cleaning, £3 14s. 6d.; cost of pic-nic, £2 10s. 2d.; account jj
books and 200 new rules, £2 0s. 6d.; stamps and stationery, £l4s. 5d.; lj
balance with treasurer, £4 16s. 5fd.; total, £70 8s. llfd.; outstanding jj
accounts, £5 11s. 5d.” ij
The adoption of the report having been duly moved and seconded, j
was, after discussion, carried unanimously.
Some business of a routine character having been transacted, the jj
election of an Executive was then proceeded with, the result being as jj
followsPresident, John Mould; vice-presidents, W. C. Kobson and jjj
Wm. Hunter; hon. treasurer, John Miller; hon, financial secretary, .jjj
Fenwick Pickup; hon. corresponding secretary, H. A. Kersey; auditors, jj !
E. J. Blake and John Hare ; librarian, M. Patterson; committee, Wm. j j j
Armstrong, Thos. Ashton, John Coltman, J. Haydock, Jas. Bobson, L. jj
Bristol, S. D. Wyld, and Andrew Alston, jj j
A vote of thanks to the chairman terminated the proceedings. i j
Mr. Colville’s Teance Addeesses.—Every Monday evening Mr. jjj
Colville delivers trance addresses at the Langham Hall, Portland-street, i j j
Begent-street, London, commencing at eight o’clock; admission free. |j|
On Saturday afternoons, at four o’clock, he gives trance addresses at the jj j
rooms of the National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Bussell- jj j
s'treet, and members and friends have then a good opportunity of putting i j j
questions to the controlling intelligences at their leisure. Mr. Colville is jj j
a young trance medium of great promise. ' *
SLATE-WBITING EXTBA OBDINABY.*
BY ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE.
I trust you may consider the following experiment worthy
of record in your paper, because it differs from cases of
abnormal slate-writing of which evidence was adduced at the
trial of Slade, and because it affords a demonstration of the
reality of the phenomenon and the absence of imposture from
which there seems no escape. I confine myself to this one
experiment and narrate the essential facts only.
The sitting was at a private house in Eichmond, on the
21st of last month. Two ladies and three gentlemen were
present, besides myself and the medium, Dr. Monck. A
shaded candle was in the room, giving light sufficient to see
every object on the table round which we sat. Four small
and common’slates were on the table. Of these I chose two,
and after carefully cleaning and placing a small fragment of
pencil between them, I tied them together with a strong
cord, passed around them both lengthways and crosswise, so
as effectually to prevent the slates from moving on each
other. I then laid them flat on the table, without losing
sight of them for an instant. Dr. Monck placed the fingers
of both hands on them, while I and a lady sitting opposite
me placed our hands on the corners of the slates. From
this position our hands never moved, till I untied them to
ascertain the result. After waiting a minute or two, Dr.
Monck asked me to name any short word I wished to be
written on the slate. I named the word cc God.” He then
ask me to say how I wished it written. I replied, “ length¬
ways of the slate >!| then if I wished it written with a large
or small ug,” and I chose a capital “ G.” In a very short
time writing was heard on the slate. The medium’s hands
were convulsively withdrawn, and I then myself untied the
cord (which was a strong silk watch-guard, lent by one of
the visitors), and on opening the slates, found on the lower
one the word I had asked for, written in the manner I had
requested, the writing being somewhat faint and laboured,
but perfectly legible. The slate with the writing on it is
now in my possession.
The essential features of this experiment are—that I myself
cleaned and tied up the slates, that I kept my hand on
them all the time, that they never went out of my sight for
a moment, and that I named the word to be written and
the manner of writing it after they were thus secured and
held by me. I ask, how are these facts to be explained, and
what interpretation is to be placed upon them ?
I was present on this occasion, and certify that Mr.
Wallace’s account of what happened is correct.
Edward T. Bennett.
MB. MOBSE’S BENEFIT SOIREE.
On Wednesday next the annual complimentary soiree to Mr. J. J.
Morse will be held at the Cavendish Booms, Mortimer-street, Begent-
street, London, and there will probably be a large attendance on the
occasion. It is expected to be the first general meeting of London
Spiritualists for the coming season. The following is the programme:—
PEOGEAMME.
PART X.
Pianoforte solo, v Minuet, Symphony in E flat,” (Mozart), Miss Maltby.
Song, “Agatha” (Franz Abt), Miss Schallehn.
Song, “ Is this a dream ?” (Arthur Sullivan), Mrs. Limpus.
Cavatina, “ M’appari tutt amor” (“ Martha ”), (Flotow), Mr. Ernest A.
Tietkens.
Old Welsh song, “ The Ash Grove,” Madame Schneegans.
Pianoforte solo, “ Rondo Brilliant ” (Weber), Miss Holmes.
Recitation, “Luke” (Bret Harte), Mr. Frank Dietz.
Duet, “ Oh that we two were Maying ” (Alice Mary Smith), Madame
Schneegans and Mr. Ernest A. Tietkens.
Mr. J. J. Morse.
Interval of ten minutes.
PART H.
Pianoforte duet (Gounod), the Misses Annie and Evelyn Ward.
Recitation, Miss Ella Dietz.
Vocal duet, Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Ward.
Song, “ Evangeline ” (John Blockly), Miss Schallehn.
Song, “Esmeralda’’ (Levey), Mrs. Limpus.
Song, “Good night, beloved” (Balfe), Mr. Ernest A. Tietkens.
Song, “The Old Cottage Clock” (Molloy), Madame Schneegans.
Song, Mr. J. C. Ward.
Recitation, “ The Northern Farmer ” (Tennyson), Mr. Frank Dietz.
Final duet, concertina and piano (Zampa), Miss A. Ward and
Mr. J. C. Ward.
* From The Spectator, October 6th, 1877.
Oct. 12, 1877.
175
THE SPIRITUALIST.
“TEN YEAKS.” |
BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
I. 11
How many yeai’s is’t since we met ? !)
If we must count by years—why ten, |)
But if by wasted lives, ’twere then K
Too hard a task our minds to set. j)
n. js
Ten years! of slow, remorseless pain, K
Of trembling hope, of jealous fear, j)
Of absence from what was most dear. {)
Ten years—and now we meet again ! I (
III. ! j
We parted in the bloom of youth, j(
Face pressed to face, and heart to heart,
And crying that we could not part, H
And life should prove our earnest truth.
iv. ! |
There is no falsehood in your soul; !
I know your words were true, dear love,
Although what followed did not prove !
You strong enough to bear the whole.
v. j)
You thought your world embraced by me ;
But rival worlds and alien ties, H
And looks of love from other eyes, |)
Proclaimed your thought a fantasy. j
IJ
YT. !(
Then I, too, turned to other friends, ||
Not dearer than you were to me, |<
The God who reads my soul can see ;
But whilst we live, life must have ends.
VII. |]
And now we two must meet again,
Clasp hand in hand, forgetting all 11
The past, which bound us in her thrall,
With the long interval of pain.
VIII.
We meet again—but how ? my youth
Has died beneath my burthened heart;
And I feel I retain no part
In what the world calls love or truth.
IX.
Has your life proved as sad and drear,
With hours so dark and full of grief,
God’s love alone could bring relief j
Or make you bear to linger here ?
x.
Nay ! No reply—I should not ask ;
It was His voice that parted us ;
And if He wills I suffer thus,
In silence I will learn the task.
XI.
E’en should I find the passing years
Have sternly blotted out your love,
I still will look to Heaven above,
And bless Him through my silent tears.
XII.
Oh, ChrisSt! I thank Thee that my heart
Has found a safer, surer home,
Whence by Thy grace no more ’twill roam—
The blessed Heaven where Thou art. j j
xm. i) i
Hadst Thou not come with wondrous power j j
To fill my soul with Thy great love,
I now should all my weakness prove, j) |
And sink o’erwhelmed by this dark hour.
XTV. | |
But set my love, dear Lord of Love,
Chastened and sanctified by Thine,
A sacrifice upon the shrink, 1> j
I hope to worship at above! ill
THE COMMUNION OF THE LIVING WITH THE DEAD.
Translated from il La Religion Laxquef by J. N. Gledstanes.
All that we possess we owe to humanity. If God created us capable
of being what we are, humanity has made us what we have become.
That civilisation of which we boast so much is the product of the action
of previous generations ; no acquisition, invention, or application of the
forces of nature, and no idea, truth, liberty, or virtue, and no particle
of material, intellectual, or moral capital which we enjoy but has been
gained at the cost of labour, strife, and effort, or originated from the
thought or action of some human being, known or unknown, who has
lived before us, and who sometimes thereby has brought on himself
poverty, humiliation, and martyrdom.
No communion or solidarity could exist among men, unless the people
of to-day felt that they also lived in the past, tied by sacred memory and
by gratitude to their ancestors, who in their time had, with loving fore¬
sight, prepared the conditions for subsequent generations, and transmitted
to them the common heritage prepared and improved. In this sentiment
is a feeling of great value, which has largely contributed to the preser¬
vation and progress of society. It is to he found in the ancient religious
systems, in the worship of gods, demi-gods, heroes, or ancestors.
Catholicism has reproduced it in the worship of saints. We should
like to see the worship of saints continued in the universal religion of
the future, but of course eliminating everything approaching to idolatry.
Belief in individual immortality once established, we are disposed to
admit the influence of the living on the dead and the dead on the living.
Our beloved departed ones inspire, support, and protect us, while we on
our part ameliorate their future condition by developing our present
potentialities, perfecting society, and gradually causing order, equity,
and harmony to reign in our terrestial domain. The feeling which
inclines us to continue united in spirit with the dead, whom we have
loved or who have loved us, is an essentially religious sentiment. The
thought that our acts are known to those whose esteem we cherish, the
confession that we make to them of our faults, hopes, and projects, the
desire we feel not to afflict them, and not to have to blush in their
presence, our faith in their assistance and moral support, the conviction
of the good we do them in labouring to ameliorate that world into which
they will be summoned to live again, all these consequences of the life
beyond the grave are for the believer inexhaustible sources of develop¬
ment and progress. But the family sphere, even when enlarged by the
remembrance of those who have been sympathetic with us in this world,
is too restricted to satisfy the religious wants of a being who has
become sufficiently social and human to feel that he lives not only as a
member of a family, but at the same time as a member of his city, his
country, and of humanity. To respond to the sentiment of universal
solidarity, which makes every one of us a member of the human family
and a citizen of the world, we must be able, in thought at least, to con¬
nect ourselves with all the men who have not led useless lives upon
earth, and whose virtues, genius, and labours, devotion and discoveries,
have contributed to make us what we are to-day.
Among all the benefactors of humanity, among all the martyrs of
truth and progress, we only know the few illustrious individuals whose
names are chronicled in history. Let us honour them—at least those
of them whose names have descended to us. Let us take them for
guides and models. In them we perceive humanity increasing day by
day and century by century, in power, knowledge, morality, and in
gravitation towards God. Let us join the best of these virtuous, de¬
voted, and enlightened men in their efforts to lead the whole human
family to perfection. Such is the great communion of the living and
dead in the heart of the world, and such is the meaning we should like
to see given to the worship of saints, honours paid to the names of the
heroes and benefactors of humanity, at all times and in all countries.
It remains for us to say who are our saints, or at least what are the
qualifications required of those who are gone before to entitle them to be
inscribed in the Golden Book of our ancestors—the spiritual fathers of
humanity. It would seem that Christianity as soon as it was called
“ Catholic,” a Greek word meaning “ universal,’’ set to work to belie
its name. Nothing is less universal or more difficult to render universal
than Catholic Christianity, with its narrow belief, irrational and mon¬
strous dogmas, and the exclusive spirit of its church, out of which—if
we are to believe it—there is no salvation. A religion, which aspired to
become the religion of humanity, should have accommodated itself to
all the forms of religious feeling; it should have conceived a creed large
enough to embrace all the aspirations of the human soul, and capable of
satisfying them. The insufficiency and narrowness of the Catholic con¬
ception have obliged the Romish Church to rely on physical force as an
auxiliary to the spirit of proselytism and Catholicism; they have caused
the spiritual power to find itself rivetted to the temporal power like two
convicts to the same chain, inasmuch as the Pope has been obliged ever
to struggle against the Emperor, or else allow him to join him in the
management of the Christian flock, after they have mutually made con¬
cessions, for which morality has often had to blush, and humanity to
pay the cost. Nothing shows better the exclusive spirit of Catholicism
than the selection of saints it has made for enjoyment of the honours of
its paradise. It looks as if men had never existed before the establish¬
ment of the Church of Peter, or that nothing had ever happened
without its pale. All that that Church has accomphshed, however, is
insignificant in comparison with what humanity has done both anterior
to Catholicism and since, outside the Romish Church, or in spite of it.
But it is especially in the qualifications upon which it founds the title to
holiness that the Romish Church has shown itself singularly narrow and
little humanitarian or universal. It has not only excluded from its
Golden Book all the heroes, all the large hearts and grand souls who
have lived outside the Christian circle, but it has only admitted saints of
undeniable orthodoxy, and has never thought of asking them what good
they have done to the world, what they have added to the comnion
heritage, what great idea or noble example they have left, what useful
176
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 12, 1877,
discovery they have made. To have suffered and worked for the faith
is all that is required.
We desire to break with the Catholic tradition in this regard, and we
wish to open a Golden Book, which shall be in reality a book of
humanity, where holiness shall not be peculiar to any sect or church,
but shall belong to all times, to all peoples of bygone centuries, and
be a record of labour, devotion, and self-sacrifice for the good of
mankind, whether in moral worth, science, or genius, or in any of
the branches of human activity. The Catholic communion, of course,
shall have its share, but only its share of honour. We will judge its
pretensions like the others, by submitting them to the same test, and by
asking each individual whose name has reached us, not what he has
done for his faith and his church, but what he has done for mankind,
and the advancement of future generations, in the way of truth, justice,
and beauty.
We are going to propose and submit to the judgment of our friends,
and all who sympathise with our work, a list of the saints we should like
to see figure in the calendar, either concurrently with those already
there, or in their place, the greater number of whom, without injustice,
may be said to have had their day. We will begin next month to pub¬
lish the names of the saints for the month of August, and so on
for each of the other months of the year. The reception of our
saints, and the arrangement of their dates for the different days of
the year, let it be understood, have nothing definitive, it being merely
a suggestion that we make. Certain names may, no doubt, be objected
to, but there are some who will be enthusiastically admitted, such, for
instance, as Socrates, Aristides, Phocion, Epictetus, Marcus Aurelius,
Hypatia, Joan of Arc, John Huss, and Jerome of Prague. Is it not
enough to make us blush with shame to have a Catholic Golden Book, a
book claiming to be universal, of all the saints, and yet not to find the
above-mentioned names therein ?
MRS. SUYDAM, THE FIRE-TEST MEDIUM.
Last week we [Banner of Light) published the testimony of Mr. John
Wetherbee concerning this well-known lady from the West. Dr. Mack
furnishes us with the following views regarding her at the present
writing
“ A re the Spiritualists of Boston generally aware of the fact that one
of the most remarkable exhibitions of spirit power that has ever been
made before a public assembly is now offered daily in our city ? Are our
physicists and men of science aware of their opportunity of testing a
most remarkable phenomenon ? If not, I hope a few words from me as
to the conditions under which Mrs. Suydam submits hands, arms and
feet, throat and mouth, to the ordeal by fire, will attract some attention.
“ Before ah assemblage, not so large as it ought to be, and often com¬
posed chiefly of sceptics, Mrs. Suydam will hold hand or arm for the
space of thirty seconds in a steady flame from a kerosene lamp. She
will move either arm back and forth through the flame, and after the
experiment not a hair will be found singed. She will thrust a piece of
blazing wood, dipped in alcohol, into her mouth, and keep it there
fifteen seconds. In short, she will give the most ample proof that
some abnormal power is at work shielding her skin from the ordinary
effects of fire.
“To prove that she does not produce this insensibility by any artificial
or chemical means, she will allow any chemist to wash her arms and
hands in any preparation he may think available to test the genuineness
of the phenomenon.
“The charge so loosely brought against Mrs. Suydam that she
produces the manifestation by any other aid than the spiritual, I
believe to be wholly unfounded. She passes into a state of trance
while the phenomena are in progress, and she allows the most sceptical
committees all proper facilities for testing her sincerity and satisfying
themselves that the phenomena are inexplicable by any fact or process
at present known to science.”
Spirits Setting Fire to a House.—What object spirits could have in
setting fire to a house is not easy to determine. The Gazette, of Onawa,
Iowa, speaks as follows:—“The ‘manifestations’ consisted mainly in
the abstraction and hiding of the wearing apparel of the young lady
‘medium’; in a few instances something was destroyed. There were
peculiar aud unaccountable freaks of various kinds, and this state of
things was going on by spells for several months. About one month
after the article appeared in the Press, an alarm of fire was one day
raised in the house. An attempt to put out the fire made known the
fact that as fast as it was put out in one part, it would break forth in
another. Some neighbours were called in, and they all worked briskly
trying to save the house. The fire would break out in the most unex¬
pected places. Once it was found in a closed chest; again the centre of
a bed. It must have appeared in twenty separate and distinct spots
throughout the building. Finally the fires were extinguished without
material damage ; but the family was so much disturbed by the inex¬
plicable phenomenon that they moved all their household effects away to
a neighbour’s dwelling and abandoned the house. They stayed away
two weeks and then moved back. I have not heard of any trouble
since, although it is not known that the manifestations have entirely
ceased. As a matter of course, this affair has been a source of much
annoyance and anxiety to the worthy family in which it has occurred.
This is, I think, the first case on record of ‘ materialisation’ by invisible
house burners. There is no question as to the facts. Who is wise
enough to.explain? ” The probability is that the spirits performing
these manifestations had no intention of burning the house down—they
only wished to make their presence forcibly known, and in a manner
that the press ail over the country would take especial delight in pub¬
lishing the same. They might have been evil disposed spirits, like
thousands still in mortal form.—Religio-Philosophical Journal,
Poetry.
AN “ INSECTATIYE ” IDYL.
On, for some pup-pup-ptip-pup-powcr,
To catch the fuf fuf-fly
That every bub bub-blessed hour
Mum mocks my angry cry.
He bub-bub-buzzeth when I read ;
With tickling cuc-cuc-creep
Across my face with mad’ning speed
He crawleth when I sleep.
He bites me on the nun-nun-nose,
And buzzes in my ear;
His lazy huh-huh-horn he blows,
That tickles me to hear.
Forth from the syrup he cuc-crawls,
With sticky fuf-fuf-feet;
In liquid sweetness oft he falls,
But, oh, he is not sweet.
He is no fuf-philosopher,
Science is not his meat,
And yet he huh-hath, as it were,
Air-pumps in all his feet.
No dud-dud-dud dud-doctor he ;
For every aggravation
His only treatment seems to be
Ouc-counter irritation,
He does not pup-pup-pup-pup-preach,
But all these dreamy days,
When saint or sinner he can reach,
He pup-pup-pup-pup-preys.
Oh, wretched fuf-fuf-fuf-fuf-fly !
Oh, mite of living death!
I’d like to smite you hip and thigh,
And shut off your bub-breath!
Robert J. Burdette, in the Burlington Hawkeye.
orotmpnuence,
i i [Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
i j to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
i j copies should be keptby the writers.]
M. A. OXON’S BOOK.
Sir,—Kindly allow me a little space to say that the state of the
subscription lists warrants me in preparing the volume of which your
advertisement columns have given notice.
I When I projected the book it was my intention to reprint various
papers of mine which have appeared in certain magazines and period!-
| cals. I was led, however, to abandon this scheme in favour of one
| more comprehensive and of greater probable utility.
I wish to publish a book which shall summarize, and act as a kind
of guide to the best literature of modern Spiritualism, which shall
answer the reiterated question—What is there that I can read on this
| subject?
This plan involves a wider range of preparation, and demands a longer
| time for its completion, than my original idea necessitated. Such a
i work cannot be hurried, even if it were desirable or necessary to push
| it on at the expense of completeness and precision. Moreover, the
demands on my time are increasingly heavy, and my vacation (on
which I depend for private work) was this year greatly lessened by a
period of ill health.
I am compelled, therefore, to ask indulgence of my friends, and to
| defer the publication until a time of which I will give due notice.
! Meantime, I shall carry on the work of preparation as rapidly as I
! can. M. A. Oxon.
CHARITY ORGANISATION.
Sir,—After reading your review of Mr. S. C. Hall’s Words of
Warning, I thought well to purchase the work and study it, so as to
be able to form a more correct judgment of its contents. The first
part is in poetry, and highly sensational, and, as the incidents are the
creations of the poet’s fancy, I pass it by without further remark. In
| the second part, however, we are led to believe that the author is deal-
| ing with facts ; of the reliability of his statements your readers may
judge for themselves. On page 29 he says:—“ Several annual reports
of these branch societies are before me. I subject some of them to
‘ inquiry.’ ”
j He then proceeds to take to pieces, in a very unfair and mis¬
leading way, portions of these reports. The Clapham committee is,
among others, held up as an example of iniquity, and its work thus
summarised:—“ In the wealthy suburb of Clapham ^159 14s. 6d. was
] collected; the expenditure being only ^110 11s. fid; but there is also
a balance in hand of £64 3s. At Clapham, during the year, six per-
| sons were relieved by gifts, and five by loans.” What are the facts 2
| The office expenses were £116 lls. fid, £61 8s. 7d. was given away,
and £39 Is. fid. advanced as loans. The cases that came under the
consideration of the committee were 111; of these 31 were assisted by
| grants, 9 by loans, and 14 by letters for hospitals, &c. ; 25 were dis¬
missed ; 32 were recommended to other agencies. In addition to this,
612 non-residents, or vagrants, were relieved with bread.
; The City fares no better at Mr. Hall’s hands. He says:—“The
society, therefore, reports 15 loans and grants ’’; whereas 136 were so
assisted to the amount of £388 lls. 5d.
This will be sufficient to show that the author’s arguments have not
a sound basis. With regard to the society itself, it is true that a large
i proportion of the expenditure is in working expenses; but then the
Oct. 12, 1877,
THE SPIKITUALIST,
177
society does not, and never did, profess to be solely for the relief of i i
distress, though it undertakes cases of temporary trouble when other |1
sources fail. Its great objects are, as its name indicates, the organisa- j
tion of charitable relief and the repression of mendicity ; it seeks to j
keep the stream of money expended in charity from professional beg- j
gars and bad characters, and to guide it to those who, through mis¬
fortune, have fallen into want; and I venture to think that money
subscribed to the society, though a large portion does go as salaries
and other expenses, is better laid out than when given in sixpences and
shillings to beggars in the streets, assisting in their destruction, and
serving only to increase the receipts of the publicans. As to the action
of the society, “ drying up the natural channels of the heart,” one of
its great efforts is the encouraging of personal work among the poor,
for which a sixpence given to a passing beggar is a very sorry j
substitute.
I do not say that the society has never made a mistake, but its ob¬
jects are good, and it is open to any one to join the local committee of |
their district, and to send a representative to the central council,
the constitution of which is as liberal as can be wished.
The great want of the society is workers, and I think it would be
better to act in that way, and try to guide the committees aright, than
to sit at home and write sensational effusions against people who, even
if mistaken, have a good end in view—the benefit of their fellow men.
James Dean.
Clapham, October 7th, 1877.
SPlniTUALISM IN IRELAND. | / I
Sir,—My travels in Ireland, so far, have been full of pleasing sur- |i
prises; and, no doubt, they will be followed up shortly by another and j) i
more public visit, as it is my intention to give a series of lectures on j j
mesmerism and phrenology throughout the country; but, for the present, j j j
I have contented myself with giving mesmeric seances in private. In ijj
Dublin I was surprised to find so many gentlemen fully acquainted i i
with the subject of mesmerism; but I regret, at the same time, to be Iff
compelled to state that, so great is the fear of Mrs. Grundy, that these | j
gentlemen decline to avow their belief. One of them informed me, j j
that did he avow his belief in public, and state what was his actual i||
knowledge of the subject of mesmerism, he would be considered a mad- || j
man, perhaps a Spiritualist, and the effect would, in a short time, be ijj
visible in the declining number of pupils attending his school. Another, j j j
whose business did not consist of “teaching the young idea how to jlj
shoot,” but who provided some of the benighted inhabitants of the city jj!
with coal, told me that he practised mesmerism for healing purposes for j) j
many years, and had not the slightest doubt of its value; but he jj!
declined to do so any more, as he was now connected with the Church, j j
and took an active part in religious work, Sunday-school business, and ij j
temperance, and it would not do for him to say anything about it. jj j
Besides, he noticed that, as a rule, persons who dabbled in mesmerism lj j
generally became infidels or Spiritualists. But I really believe one of jj i
the reasons why he declined to have anything more to do with it is that j j
he might lose the sale of his coal to his religious (?) customers. Alas ! jj j
when it is a question between truth and money, between independent jj j
honesty and expediency, money and expediency too often weigh down j j
the balance and decide the question. j i
Before leaving Dublin I had the pleasure of attending a seance given jj j
by Mrs. McMahon, a writing and rapping medium. This lady four or i j
five years ago suffered severely from paralysis of the lower limbs, and j j
was unable to walk; she owes her recovery to direct spirit-action. The j j
spirits used to move a table round the room, she leaning on the top of it, ' !
and following, by which means she gained strength, and obtained
exercise which she was unable to procure in any other form. As a long
account of this remarkable cure was published in the pages of The
Medium some time ago, I will say no more about it, further than that
this lady still firmly believes she was cured by spirit agency, and that
she still holds communication with spirits. She has a husband and five
children in the spirit-world; all of them, she says, have given her un¬
doubted tests of spirit identity. If so, she has, indeed, been highly
favoured, as proofs of spirit identity are few enough. I enjoyed the
seance thoroughly. Raps were abundant, produced in daylight, and
good test and thought-reading communications were rapped out. After
ten days comfortable sojourn in the good old city of Dublin, I proceeded
to Newry. Spiritualism has planted itself here, but it is rather of the
hothouse kind, and will not stand out-door scrutiny and treatment. I
had a request made here, namely, that if I attended a seance I would
not send an account of it to the papers, so 1 have not done so. From
Newry I went to fulfil an engagement at Kilkeel, a rambling country
village, with 1,500 inhabitants. A handsome old-fashioned square-
towered church strikes the attention of the stranger as he enters the
place on car from Rostrevor—famous now as a watering place. Kilkeel
is a lovely place, adjacent to a fine bay, and backed by a
mountainous amphitheatre, where the hills rear their heads
into the blue vault above. Fish are abundant in the bay,
and even now, when the fishing season is considered nearly
over, I have gone down to the new pier and fishing harbour, and
watched with interest the fishing smacks arrive one after another,
laden with fish captured during the night. My host is a Spiritualist,
and has a fine library, containing rare and valuable works, which are
seldom found upon the bookshelves of the libraries of more pretentious
people. I shall send more particulars in my next. J. Coates.
Kilkeel, October Gth, 1877.
MESMERISM.
Sir,—Mr. Atkinson, in his letter on Mesmerism, in The Spiritualist
of October 5th, says he would be happy to copy out the case of Anne
Vials with additional remarks and information, if he knew that it would
be acceptable.
I have a vivid recollection of the case of Anne Vials, who, poor
girl, was, in her natural state, about as plain a specimen of feminine
humanity as I ever beheld, with only one arm, and general appearance
far from prepossessing. During her state of extase, however, the
ordinary appearance was marvellously changed, her facial expression
and her graceful attitudes being worthy the study of painter, sculptor,
and actor.
I hope your correspondent may be induced to give as full details as
possible of this very remarkable case. John James.
Tottenham, October 8 th.
astrology.
Sir,—Mr. Massey having asked whether I can confirm the confident
statement made in the preface of a certain book that “Horary astrology
is both infallible and easily learned,” I may just remark that close ap¬
plication will in a few days—at all events within a month—give the
student such a knowledge of the art as will enable him to “ read ” the
various “ schemes ” he erects with correctness and facility. I must be
guarded in speaking of the ‘‘infallibility” of the science. My experi¬
ence goes to show that in the early efforts to acquire a knowledge of
astrology, the student may draw inaccurate conclusions from the horo¬
scope, just in the same manner as the grammar-school boy misconstrues
a sentence from Virgil or Ovid. I do not profess to be an adept, indeed
there are but few people who ever arrive at such a degree of perfection
in their judgments as to be themselves infallible. When there is such a
person, then it will be time enough to inquire as to the fallibility or other¬
wise of the science. I have found astrology extremely useful in all the
affairs of life, and in eighteen cases out of twenty unmistakably appro¬
priate in its decisions. If I was anxious to buy a house, or invest in
any of the speculative enterprises of the day, I certainly should be
guided by the stars in coming to a decision.
I may say that circumstances recently forced me into litigation. As
there was no help for it, I elected a suitable day on which to commence the
proceedings, and I feel quite confident that, notwithstanding the “ law’s
delay,” I shall come out triumphant. There have been seven appear¬
ances before the Court already, in the shape of motions and applications,
yet in no instance have I received a reverse. The opposition now
threaten an appeal, but if they carry it on, which I doubt, they will
meet with the same run of “ ill-luck ” as hitherto. Aldebaran.
PROVINCIAL NOTES.—NO. II.
Sir,—With your permission I will continue these “ Notes,” the first
of which appeared in your columns of October 5th. Resuming the
survey commenced in my last, we will take Liverpool as being next in
order. An exhaustive account of the rise and progress of Spiritualism
in the above town has already been contributed to your pages. Your
present correspondent need only mention facts subsequent to the close
of that narrative. About fifteen months ago the Liverpool Pyscho-
logical Society was located at the Islington Assembly Rooms. Its
meetings were well attended, current expenses were met, and a more
than average degree of prosperity was experienced. Acting under
strong suggestions the committee decided to remove to more com¬
modious premises. The change was made. Normal speakers were
largely used, and the influence of social position cultivated. But the
real test of the value of the higher class patronage failed, for the
society contracted liabilities it was unable to discharge. At the expi¬
ration of the first year’s tenancy of its new abode it withdrew there¬
from, and its then president resigned. Since that time the society has
been in a state of suspended animation. It is partially recovering
now, and doubtless it will succeed in re-establishing itself ere long.
The present position of Spiritualism in Liverpool, so far as public ex¬
pression is concerned, is a state of quiescence. In Southport and
Blackpool the cause has a few firm friends. In the first-named town
several lectures have been delivered. In Preston the movement is
pressed forward chiefly in the direction of private seances, and occa¬
sional letters in the local papers, the Herald and the Guardian. Much
opposition is expressed to the subject. In Blackburn Spiritualism has
fallen down very much, crude methods of presenting and investigating
the phenomena being largely responsible for the present decadence of
the movement there.
In the county of Yorkshire a considerable amount of activity is
manifested, though on the whole things are not quite so vigorous as
they used to be. Bradford holds regular services every Sunday. The
meetings do not appeal to a very wide circle. Leeds has abandoned
11 public work for some years past. A few semi-public stances were held,
j i though, towards the close of last year. The towns of Ossett and Gaw-
j thorpe have for a long time expressed much of their zeal in testing the
ji educational value of the emotional aspects of Spiritualism. The zeal
j i expressed does not bring the results really due to it. The town of
( j Keighley possesses a building built for Spiritualist meetings, and
j j specially devoted to that purpose. It will seat about one hundred and
j j fifty to one hundred and seventy people. Meetings are held on Sundays
j and Thursdays, good attendances being obtained. Subjective pheno-
i mena are the rule, and objective—physical—the exception. Spiritualism
j j may really be said to have originated in Keighley, so far as England is
j j concerned, the “Lyceum Brotherhood” being the oldest Spiritual Asso-
j j ciation extant; its founder has lately passed to the higher life. The
I! local press gives fair reports in an impartial spirit.
Previous to continuing our way northwards, a slight return south
j needs to be made—Leicester, Derby, and Belper, calling for a passing
notice. In the first-named town there is a good average society. A
j room is rented in which services are held on Sundays, and occasional
meetings during the week. The society has recently suffered from some
j rather trying events, and in consequence it is not in its normal
I condition. Derby has a Psychological Society, and a number of intel-
ifs
Oct. 12, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jigent and well-to-do people in the town are busily investigating the
phenomena, but at present the local indications do not present much
that calls for a special notice. In Belper Spiritualism has attracted a
large share of public attention ; the facts have been rigidly scrutinised,
and systematically investigated, and results of a very interesting nature
have been obtained. The local spiritual authorities have done their
best to scatter their results abroad. Nottingham, too, here claims
mention. There are two societies in the town, one representing the
Liberal aspect, and the other the Conservative aspect of Spiritualisms’
tendencies and theories. The division of force is unhappy. Public
work is retarded, while the spectacle of a divided camp is presented
to the public. The Nottingham Journal is fair and impartial when
it reports any meetings held in our interest.
Resuming our journey north, but deviating a moment, making, in
fact, a curve, we are able just to note Hull. Local action is not very
marked. The centre of activity is not well sustained; it is a question
indeed if the subject really excites much interest in the above un¬
spiritual town.
Returning inland, we travel on to Halifax, where the local Spirit¬
ualists rent the Old County Court Rooms, holding Sunday meetings,
with local talent, normal and abnormal, in the speakers. The cause,
though, has not so much sympathy bestowed upon it since recent
events in Huddersfield; thus the workers have rather a difficult task
to sustain their position. At Sowerby Bridge, the neighbouring town,
there exists a Lyceum building, and public services and a Lyceum
school are held therein every Sunday. Unlike their Keighley co¬
workers, the Sowerby Bridge Spiritualists have still a heavy debt
upon their building. In Huddersfield Spiritualism is very quiet at
present.
The reader shall be taken further north in my next communication.
X.
MATERIALISATION OF SPIRIT HEADS. NO. XIII.—PHOTOGRAPHY IN THE DARK. ; j
Sir,—In your last number, in reference to the photographs of the j ]
moulds and busts obtained by us, I read that the National Association of j j-
Spiritualists “ always refers the gifts connected with phenomenal Spirit- ! 11
ualism to the Research Committee, before they are placed on permanent i |
view. Of this committee Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, the electrician, is jj
chairman. There may be a few natural questions which the public j | j
would like to ask, and Mr. O’Sullivan to answer, about the moulds, so
perhaps those questions had better be put through the Research Com- i j j
mittee.” . , jj
I, therefore, beg leave to invite those questions at once. They will j I
probably, I suppose, be substantially the same as those which had jj;
been already addressed to me by an individual member of that com- j j j
mittee, and to which I had intended to respond to-day. But as some j j
further points of interrogation might proceed from the committee, I j j
deem it better not to make two bites of one cherry, and to reserve my j j
reply till I am favoured with the whole, or at least the intimation that j j
I may regard those questions as those of the committee. I shall then ! j
be happy to reply to them with full accuracy, and with all that candour j i
and honesty which I think all readers of these letters must have recog- i j
nised as stamped throughout on their face. i j
But I may at once let your readers know the question which underlies i j
these queries, and of which I had been before informed by private cor- i j
respondence. It seems that while no one suspects for a moment the i j
“ unquestionable honour and integrity ” of the witnesses (those witnesses j j
being the Count and Countess de Bullet, Mr. De Veh, Mr. Lvoff, of j j]
Moscow, and myself), some few gentlemen have conceived the notion j
that these moulds have been derived, not from the materialised heads of j
spirits (as the spirits declare them to be), but from plaster-casts brought i j
into the seance room by fraudulent, lying, trickster spirits (I suppose j i
“ elementaries ”), brought in as “ apports” and then carried away again j j
—I suppose to the museums or shops from which they had been “ con- j j
veyed, the wise it call.” I understand that one person claims to have j i
seen in the British Museum the exact facsimile of the head of Glaucus. i j j
I should like to see them side by side. The same had been two or three j i
times told the Count de Bullet here in regard to the collection of j ;
sculpture in the Louvre, but examination proved that there had been j i
only general resemblance, yet with entire difference. Chancing to see i j
recently a small photograph of the Antinous of the Vatican, in which j j
the pose of the head and general appearance seemed very like that of ! j
Glaucus, the Count had the head and shoulders enlarged to the same j j
size as our bust of Glaucus. It became at once apparent that they are ! |
totally different. Why is not a similar photograph taken of the alleged i j
head in the British Museum, and compared with that of Glaucus ? I j j
will wager the expense of it that they are not found to be the same, j j
At our seance yesterday John King spoke out pretty strongly about this !)!
plaster-cast theory of a few persons over in London. He had heard a ijj
letter read, and the subject talked about amongst us before the seance \ (j
began, and he was very indignant; felt greatly insulted. jj|
“ Why\ do they take us for rogues and liars, and as bad as thieves ? jj!
For we should be such if we brought plaster casts here to dip into the j j j
paraffin and deceive you, while pretending them to be our own jjl
materialised heads f And how do those wise people think their plaster \ \ j
casts were got out of the moulds, without break, or cut, or damage to the iji
moulds? But it is not worth answeringP jjj
Thus, John King. But, differing from him, I am willing to answer, Iji
and expect to do so conclusively, so soon as the queries are received.
Oct. 7.—We have used up a good number of photographic plates in li
the dark since my last. They are now of larger size, with a larger in- i j
strument.- We often get failures, that is to say, failures to get distinct ijj
forms and features. But there have been several good ones. Many of jjj
the failures are curious and instructive. In one of them the naked arm j j j
of a young female spirit is there, but with a break separating it from the jjj
jrest of the body, showing a part of the shoulder and side to have not jj!
j held together, in conformity with what we have often been told takes
place. In one the features of a young girl are not clear, while her whole
form, in profile, is there down nearly to the knees, draped only with her
abundant long hair. It suggests, what is probable enough, that in the
higher phases of spirit life the form is draped only in the innocency
j of spirit purity. We have one of John King naked to the waist,
j where drapery begins. He said that this was to show us that they
could form their bodies as well as heads, and hands, and arms, and
j drapery. In one very wonderful one there are two John Kings, close
together, both bare to the waist, the one in front view, the other in
profile, both finely formed. After seeing this on the negative, I had sup¬
posed that he had posed twice successively before the same glass during
the five minutes of time. But it seems it was not so. The next day the
first thing he asked was how we had liked his “ double.” I told him
what had been my supposition about it. “ Nof he answered, “ that
would have been impossible. I took a double amount of power and formed
myself in two John Kings; and it was one pose for both. I at first was
going to make them stand side by side, both fronting the instrument, but
my friends Daguerre (pronounced by him Dugger) and Guisey advised
me to change it, as some people might suppose them to be some sort of dupli¬
cate views of one form, and so I put one in profile so that you could see
that there were two.” I may here say that Mr. Firman (entranced and
clairvoyant) had told the Count at the time that there were two figures
standing, and that they looked like statues. It was only some hours
afterwards, on getting the plate developed at Fontaine’s, that we got the
explanation of this in the startling appearance of these two John Kings,
or John King and his “ double.”
Another phenomenon, seen by the Count at one of the dark photograph¬
ing seances, was this. There was a large body of light, nearly a couple
of feet in diameter, of irregular shape, very bright, and flashing out rays,
and at the same time about a dozen similar smaller ones, of about three
inches in diameter. John King afterwards said it was light he was
collecting. In most of our photographs there appears more or less of
small bits of light, from which luminosity radiates around. These seem
to be a sort of dust of the light he collects and employs. Indeed, he
once accepted my expression of light dust as applicable to them. These
sometimes seem to move in different directions, as shown by a sort of
wake of luminosity behind them. J. L. O’Sullivan.
2, Rue Solferino, Paris. ■
A SEANCE IN BOSTON.
To the Editor of the “ Banner of LightP
Sir,—On Monday evening, September 10th, I had occasion to visit
Mr. Houghton at his residence, Jamaica Plain. After spending some
time in conversation I was about to leave, when Mr. Houghton suggested
to Mrs. Thayer, who was present, to “ try the spirits ” and see if they
would favour us with any demonstration of their power. Mrs. Thayer
seemed reluctant to comply, but to settle the question the light was
extinguished, and we sat in darkness for a minute or two, and then, a
light being struck, a few specimens of very fine and choice leaves were
found on the table. They were evidently newly gathered, and were cold
and wet with dew. One of the leaves, after lying a few minutes, began
to curl up, which was considered a proof that it had been recently
gathered. Mrs. Thayer and Mrs. Houghton had, it appears, visited
Forest Hills Cemetery a day or two before, and had noticed leaves
similar to those just brought, and suggested that it was from that place
they had come. This was subsequently confirmed by a spirit who
entranced the medium, and who gave some interesting information
relative to the manifestations. It is a finable offence to gather anything
in the cemetery grounds, but spirits seem to ignore human rules and
regulations.
Two days after this occurrence I again visited Mrs. Thayer for the
purpose of introducing Miss Kislingbury, of London (Secretary of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, now on a visit to the
United States), who was desirous of witnessing that lady’s medial
powers. After about an hour’s conversation we requested Mrs. Thayer
to sit for manifestations. To this she at first objected, but finally
consented. We sat round a small table in the usual manner, and in a
very short time Mrs. Thayer hurriedly requested a light to be struck
when a beautiful white lily was seen in front of Miss Kislingbury. This
lady then explained that she had been promised by a spirit in London,
through Mr. J. W. Fletcher, that if she would visit Mrs. Thayer a lily
would be given to her. Miss Kislingbury, who had kept this promise
a secret, was very gratified to find it so wonderfully fulfilled. After
this flowers were brought in the usual way, as many as twenty different
specimens being counted, among which was a large bunch of Hydrangea
Guercifolia. Spirit-hands then formed, one of which touched me on
the shoulder, and then gently patted my knee. Both these seances may
be considered impromptu, and therefore afford additional proof, if any
were wanting, of the genuineness of Mrs. Thayer’s mediumship.
Miss Kislingbury, who had only once witnessed a flower seance,
through Mrs. Guppy, expressed herself much gratified with the mani¬
festations, and carried off her lily and a few other trophies in evident
triumph.
I am happy to say that Mrs. Thayer, since I last wrote, has changed
her determination. Instead of going to Washington she now proposes
to locate in Boston. Robert Cooper.
Mr. A. Joy is drawing up a catalogue of the books in the library of
the National Association of Spiritualists.
Mr. Morse’s Appointments.—On Sunday next Mr. Morse will deliver
a trance address at Doughty Hall, Bedford-row, W.C., to commence at
7 p.m. On Tuesday and Thursday, October 16 and 18, Mr. Morse wil
deliver trance addresses before the Marylebone Association, 25, Great
Quebec-street, at 8 p.m. His complimentary soiree will be held at the
Cavendish-rooms, Mortimer-street, W., on Wednesday next.
Oct. 12, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
179
THE DUBLIN UNIVERSITY MAGAZINE.
The Dublin University Magazine (London: Hurst and Blackett) is
rich every month in articles dealing with advanced religious questions,
and some of the deepest religious problems of the age are thoughtfully
and carefully considered. The number for October contains an excellent
likeness and biographical sketch of the Rev. H. R. Haweis, a review of
the book of the Countess of Caithness, Serious Letters to Serious
Friends, an article by Dr. Keningale Cook, entitled, “ Did Jesus know
Greek?’’ also an article by Dr. Edward T. Blake, on “ The Medical
Basis of Charms.” We append two extracts from the last-mentioned
contribution:—
AMULETS AND TALISMANS.
“ Charms” are as old as superstition, and superstition as old as man.
The essence oifetichism {feitiqo, Portuguese, from Latin factitius, i.e.,
made by art) is ignorance; and however poetical and even religious may
have been, in its higher phases, the veneration of divinity as embodied in
natural objects and powers, we must not lose sight of the fact that the
main element of fetich-worship is the degrading sentiment of fear.
Terror exerts ever a demoralising influence.
The words amulet and talisman are often used as synonyms, the latter
is said to possess more extensive powers than the former. The essential
difference between them is to be sought in their respective histories.
Amulets, more modern, are as much the offspring of a mystic faith as
the talisman is the child of astrology. An amulet is animated by the
spirit of a person; a talisman has been influenced by celestial bodies.
Hence, any tangible object—a piece of metal, a stone, even an egg—
may become endowed with talismanic virtue, but the metal must have
been cast, the stone cut, the egg laid in a certain planetary hour and
with particular incantations.
Nothing seems to have been too low or insignificant for the influence
of the talisman. Warburton tells us that in order to free any place
from obnoxious vermin, the figure of the animal should be made in wax
or consecrated metal during a planetary conjunction.
It is to this custom that Butler sarcastically alludes in his lines—■
He swore that you had robbed his house,
And stole his talismanic 1 e.—Hudih'as.
Certain priests of old produced eggs having peculiar marks, averred
by them to represent the figures of comets, or of eclipses. During the
culmination of a star, they drove a very brisk trade in these fragile
commodities, which certainly must have been credited with the power of
imparting a greater degree of immunity from danger than they them¬
selves possessed!
The Samothracians were once noted for their ingenuity and industry
in producing talismans. These were little pieces of sacred iron, formed
into images, and variously set in rings.
There is a certain business-like magic in this island manufacture,
because Byron tells us that if any one were seized with a passion for ex¬
ploring the neighbouring Archipelago, he would need a good supply of
talismans, did he desire to return with life and limb 1 The advertising
of these talismans was an ingenious mode of ensuring that strangers
should pay their footing.
It seems to have been a custom, when one wished to pay court to a
man who had done a thing so unusual in the East as to “ write a book,”
to bind a part or the whole of his literary efforts on the forehead, as a
sort of delicate compliment intimating the superiority of his intelligence
over one’s own Bernard, a former Professor of Hebrew at Cambridge,
assures us that this was the true meaning of Job, when he desired that
his “ adversary had written a book,” a passage usually misquoted as a
satire on Job’s part.
That it was said in all humility we may see by a careful analysis of
the two verses which immediately follow:—
Surely I would take it upon my shoulder,
And bind it as a crown to me.
I would declare unto him the number of my steps:
As a prince would I go near unto him.
From the Babylonish Captivity the Jews brought to Palestine a re¬
vived faith in talismans, whose aid they had learned to invoke on the
banks of the Nile nearly a thousand years before. These were called
phylacteries (Greek, phylacterion, i. e., preservation). They con¬
sisted of parchment inscribed with texts, usually drawn from the books
of Exodus and Deuteronomy.
The use of these pieces of parchment, worn, during prayers, in the
synagogues, attached to the front of the head, is a curious example of
that intense literalness so severely censured in the sect of Pharisees.
This particular form of phylactery was defended by the singular abuse
of such injunctions as those contained in Proverbs iii. 1—3 ; vi. 21.
A favourite passage was that taken from Exodus xiii. 16: “ And it
shall be for a token upon thine hand, and for frontlets between
thine eyes: for by strength of hand the Lord brought us forth out
of Egypt.”
This passage is interesting, as showing another source of the amulet.
The Hegira of the Hebrews occurred almost 1,500 years before the
Christian Era.
We know from actual research that charms consisting of written
pieces of papyrus, tightly rolled up and sewed into a covering of linen,
closely resembling the Jewish phylactery, were in common use in
Egypt, for many such have been found at Thebes.
Hence, too, was doubtless brought to Italy the custom still extant
amongst noble Roman children of wearing a bulla, suspended from the
neck.
The greatest enemy to a belief in amulets is the advance of scientific
knowledge. When Harvey, in 1628, demonstrated that the nutrition of
the body was sustained by physical means, still more when Bichat, 150
years later, carried physiologists another great step forward, showing
that the tissues are removed and replaced in obedience to chemical laws,
a migbty blow was dealt to the foundations of extravagant credulity.
As amulets have existed from the commencement of the world, they
will continue to its destruction. They are called by different names :
“Perkins’ Tractors,” “Mesmeric Pads,” and the thousand and one
commercial forms of applying so-called electricity and galvanism. Pul-
vermacher’s Belts and Darlow’s Skeuasma, probably owe most of their
curative power to some such mental influence. To deny that they do
cure would be insane. Have we not all seen warts disappear after
having been touched by a wedding-ring ?
Perhaps the great fault of physicians in this most literal and material
age is to undervalue the enormous curative influence of the mind over
special forms of disease.
The National Association of Spiritualists.—Last Tuesday night,
at a meeting of the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, Mr. Alexander Calder, President, occupied the chair.
The other members present were Mr. 0. C. Massey, Mrs. Maltby, Mr.
Stainton-Moses, M.A., the Rev. W. W, Newbould, Mr. Henry Withall,
the Rev. T. Colley, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Miss Houghton, Mr. Mawson,
Mr. C. Pearson, Mr. A. Joy, M. Inst. C.E., and Mr. R. Pomeroy
I Tredwen. In the course of the meeting it transpired that the Research
| Committee was about to try experiments to discover whether variations
took place in the weight of mediums during the production of certain
manifestations. It was stated that the fortnightly discussion meetings
would in all probability shortly be resumed. The leave of absence of the
| secretary was unanimously extended from two to three months.
| Several presents to the Library were reported, also a promise of a com¬
plete file of the Fanner of Light irom Messrs. Colby and Rich. Nothing
i else of public interest took place, most of the time being taken up with
i matters connected with the interior working of the Association.
Astrology.—It was natural that the astrologers of old should re-
| gard the planetary influences as depending in the main on the position
of the celestial bodies in the sky above the person or place whose
fortunes were in question. Thus, two men at the same moment in
Rome and in Persia would by no means have the same horoscope cast
for their nativities, so that their fortunes, according to the principles
I of judicial astrology, would be quite different. In fact, it might
j happen that two men, born at the same instant of time, would have
all the principal circumstances of their lives contrasted—planets riding
j high in the heavens of one, being below the horizon of the other,
and vice versa. The celestial sphere placed as at the moment of the
native’s birth was divided into twelve parts by great circles sup-
1, posed to pass through the point overhead, and its opposite, the point
vertically beneath the feet. These twelve divisions were called
| “houses.” The first, called the Ascendant House, was the portion
| rising above the horizon at the east. It was regarded as the House
of Life, the planets located therein at the moment of birth having
most potent influence on the life and destiny of the native. Such
planets were said to rule the ascendant, being in the ascending house ;
and it is from this usage that our familiar expression that such and
|! such an influence is “ in the ascendant” is derived. The next house
i j was the House of Riches, and was one-third of the way from the east
1; below the horizon towards the place of the sun at midnight. The.
, | third was the House of Kindred, short journeys, letters, messages, &c.
i j It was two-thirds of the way towards the place of the midnight sun. The
I j fourth was the House of Parents, and was the house which the sun
| i reached at midnight. The fifth was the House of Children and
i! Women, also of all sorts of amusements, theatres, banquets, and
II merry-making. The sixth was the House of Sickness. The seventh
[ I was the House of Love and Marriage. These three houses (the fifth,
11 sixth, and seventh) followed in order from the fourth, so as to corre-
|| spond to the part of the sun’s path below the horizon, between his
i place at midnight and his place when descending in the west. The
! seventh, opposite to the first, was the Descendant. The eighth house
i was the first house above the horizon, lying to the west, and was the
i House of Death. The ninth house, next to the mid-heaven on the
| i west, was the House of Religion, science, learning, books, and long
(! voyages. The tenth, which was in the mid-heaven, or region occupied
(| by the sun at mid-day, was the House of Honour, denoting credit,
)j renown, profession or calling, trade, or preferment. The eleventh
(| house, next to the mid-heaven on the east, was the House of Friends.
) \ Lastly, the twelfth house was the House of Enemies. The houses
) i were not all of equal potency. The angular houses, which are the
(| first, the fourth, the seventh, and the tenth—lying east, north, west,
)! and south—were first in power, whether for good or evil. The second,
) j fifth, eighth, and eleventh houses were called succedents, as following
(j the angular houses, and next to them in power. The remaining four
) | houses—viz., the third, sixth, ninth, and twelfth houses—were called
) I cadents, and were regarded as weakest in influence. The houses were
) | regarded alternately masculine and feminine : the first, third, fifth,
> | &c., being masculine ; while the second, fourth, sixth, &c., were femi-
(i nine. It will be easily understood how these houses were dealt with
(| in erecting a scheme of nativity. The position of the planets at the
)| moment of the native’s birth, in the several houses, determined hs
j j fortunes with regard to the various matters associated with these
( | houses. Thus, planets of good influence in the native’s ascendant, or
j | first house, signified generally a prosperous life; but if at the same
( | epoch a planet of malefic influence was in the . seventh house, then the
> j native, though on the whole prosperous, would be unfortunate in
} | marriage. A good planet in the tenth house signified good fortune
( i and honour in office or business, and generally a prosperous career as
j | distinguished from a happy life; but evil planets in the ninth house
(| would suggest to the native caution in undertaking long voyages, or
\ i entering upon religious or scientific controversies,—Belgravia*
180
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 12, 1877.
Serious Letters to Serious Friends. By the Countess of | j
Caithness. London : Trubner and Co. 1877. . jjj
[The following review is abridged from the Dublin Uni- | |
versity Magazine for October.] j j
Although this volume contains many ideas which would j j
startle orthodox readers, yet there is also so much that is j j
eminently suggestive in the broad and hopeful views of life j j
that it advances, that even those who would not agree with | j
its more distinct dogmas might reap some pleasure and j j
benefit from its spirit. The author has thought earnestly j j
for herself upon the grandest problems which our intelli- j1 j
gence can reach. The anomalies of this present existence | |
have led her to look for a wider light by which to interpret j j
them; and instead of keeping her inquiring vision within j !
the limits of every-day life, she has turned it upon the dim jjj
depths of the universe in the endeavour to detect therein j j
something of the long sweep of the Divine laws. There j j
must always be minds that will find delight in inquiries j j
such as these, notwithstanding that they will be regarded j j
by their more easily satisfied neighbours as rash and over- j j
curious. In their essays to discover the lands that lie jjj
beyond the waters of time, they are ever supported, as was j j
Columbus in his search for America, by an unconquerable j j
conviction of their reality. Those who have not time or j j
inclination for this species of research and speculation, may j j
do well to expand their minds by consideration of the con- j j
elusions of those who have ventured to cross these most j j
difficult waters. And although most will be inclined to cry j j
((Breakers ahead” when they face some of the theories j
propounded by the Countess of Caithness in Serious Lettersf j j
yet her conclusions with regard to the life which most ! j
immediately concerns us, that of this planet, are so orderly, j j
and her spirit is so deeply religious, that it is possible to j j
follow and only differ from her in a measure. j j
In speaking of the doctrine of the Fall, she says :—
I would rather then believe that we were originally destined to have j j j
lived as pure Fluidic spirits, in a far happier sphere than this purga- j I
torial earth, having been created “a little lower than the angels,” to j j
whose degree, and still higher degrees, we should have attained, by jj j
patient and confiding perseverance in well-doing in the heavenly path j i
set before us, and that we never need to have come to a material earth, j j
or to have been clothed in the skins of beasts, i.e., in these material jj i
bodies of Jlesh, which so limit our innate soaring capacities and j i
aspirations. j j
I believe that our own rebellion, in the spiritual state, caused us to j i
fall away u From the heaven that was about us in our infancy” and that j j
we have each individually fallen exactly into our own place—not any j j
one else’s place—but our own particular place, the one exactly adapted j j i
to our particular state, or quality. And that we have been born on to {j j
a material earth, not as a punishment due to our disobedience, but as a j
natural magnetic consequence of our own material propensities, which j j
have caused us to turn away from our higher, and seek to satisfy our j j
lower nature, on a material plane — a literal feeding on the husks i i1
left by the swine or lower animals—for whom the material food was j j
provided. i ]
We thus believe that we of the human race on this earth are fallen jj j
creatures, not because we have inherited the curse pronounced upon a j I
distant progenitor, called “the first Adamf but because we are each j I
the fathers of our own faults, consequently each our own Adam, and jj;
may therefore have to expiate them until “ the third and fourth genera- j j
tionf or over and over again, and until we are able to perceive that j j
they alone separate us from our heavenly Father, and we feel impelled ; j
by the earnest desire to arise and go to our Father and say, “ Father, | I
we have sinned against heaven andoefore Thee, and are no longer worthy j !
to be called Thy children”; when we shall be received back again into I j
the heavenly habitation, and shall again be “ the children of God, being j !
the children of the resurrection.” For we are told that our “Father jff
runneth to meet us, even when He seeth us a great way off.”
But in the meantime, and until we truly repent and seek His for- jn
giveness, we are no longer worthy to be called His children, on account i j
of our disobedience and voluntary “journey into a far country,” and j ;
“ until we come to ourselves,” and are able to see the folly of our ways, i i
we are but seeking to feed ourselves on the food provided for the j j
lower animals (a degree of spirit element at a less advanced stage of jlj
development), and which, although sufficient for their necessities and Ijj
sustenance, can furnish us but with u husks,” as compared to the more |j |
spiritual nutriment we were destined to have partaken of in our j i
Father’s house; we are literally indulging in swinish tastes and feeding j !
upon swinish food. i j
This will perhaps be sufficient to show our author’s style 1
and quality of thought. j j
A story is told by Lady Caithness of a little boy of hers jlj
who passed away many years ago before the age ot five; a
story of so marvellous a nature that we cannot but reproduce
it. A child enjoying good health, he was wont to make
rhymes; and this mystic prophetic morsel is one of them:
Early in spring I got a new wing,
Covered with silver and gold,
It helped me to fly, up to the sky,
And thus is my history told.
Verily the strangest autobiography we have met with.
THE HYMN OF THE BROWN BIRD.
BY EDWARD S. WHEELER.
One morning, not being well, I lay an extra half-hour in bed,
cherishing inadequacy, pending breakfast, known to be coming in proper
form and due time. Whatever social and political good may require in
the way of restriction of woman’s sphere of effort, I cheerfully concede
her the right to plan, oversee, or even prepare and cook breakfast. The
daughters of Eve have enough to bear—I would not deprive them of one
of their enjoyments, and “ getting breakfast” always seems a pleasure to
them, and I am generous enough not to wish to deprive others of the
satisfaction of doing it for me, which is manly, I take it. “ ’Tis better
to give than to receive,” saith the Scripture; I am magnanimous, and
accept the second best, taking all I can get. I have noticed the same
disposition in others of my sex.
While I lay thus, placidly awaiting domestic developments, through
my window looking south I saw, upon a tall tree, a sparrow, who
smoothed his plumage and then sang, again and again, his brief, twit¬
tering notes. It was a gloomy morning, and I was not cheerful or
courageous; but the small brown bird gave me such an example of
cheer and bravery under adverse circumstances, that my reflections were
turned in a more healthy and hopeful course. As I mused the old spell
of improvisation came over me, and fast as speech the subjoined rhymes
passed through my mind. This was a year ago, and since then I have
read them over many times. Surmising that the hymn, as I call it, may
mean as much to some other troubled soul as it meant to me—having
committed it to memory—I send it to you, not as an example of smooth
verse, but as a specimen of improvisation and a pious lesson:—1
A brown bird perched on a tall, tall tree;
Very high up indeed sat he.
On the very tip-top of a blasted limb
He perched, and twittered his matin hymn.
There were clouds above, there was ice below,
There were sullen clouds and frozen snow,
And of the sunlight not one pale ray
Shone in to warm the dull wintry day.
Yet the small bird sat, high up on the tree,
And loud and long and sweet sang he ;
And he called for the birdlings of every feather
To gather, and gather, and gather together,
And sing with him through the Christmas weather.
* * * . # * *
Brave little heart in the feathered breast,
Thus in joy and hope ’mid storms to rest,
To sing in winter, as if he saw
The abiding force of the perfect law,
And knew kind Providence would bring,
Through frost and death, new flowers of spring.
Gesticulating with many a lurch,
Pert preacher of the highest church,.
Thy service I see, thy hymns I hear,
And I heed the sermon that follows clear :•
“0, man ! the Power that fills my breast
With joyous trust and perfect rest,
Permits no care to mar my life,
No vexing doubt with peace at strife;
But unto thee He grandly gives
A soul to reason while it lives.
Shall that which heeds the brown bird’s song
Hear not thy prayer, or do thee wrong ?
Shall the All-wise, Creative Soul
Forget thee while it loves the whole ?
Shall sparrows ne’er unnumbered lie,
And thou in cold oblivion die ?
Life dawns from life, love speeds from love !
Thy soul an oversoul doth prove ;
Thy reason but a glorious ray
From primitive—eternal day.
Come, join thy morning hymn with mine,
And make the universe our shrine.”
And so while the birds sing, even though tempest-tossed, we will
accept their prophesying, confident that the crocus will succeed the
snow, and the violets in time perfume the air, modestly announcing the
rose, perfect queen of summer. No more, while spirit-voices echo
answers to the questions of our hearts, and palpable presences of the
disembodied move among us, can we doubt the eternal summer in
whose zone dwell those already resurrected awaiting us.—Banner of
Light.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
For some time past there has been more or less delay in the matter of atten¬
tion to certain letters addressed to The Spiritualist office, but this has been
due to the prolonged absence of Mr, Hamson from London. He returns next
Wednesday.
Oct. 12, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6<L
FOOTFALLS ON THE"BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. Is. Gd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee o£
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a largo number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. V/.'
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
. and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE .OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 16s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
isving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. Gd.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s Gd.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist" was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain infonnation about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. Gd.; cheap edition,
7s. Gd. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a coUection of beautiful poems. 7s. Gd.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book censists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. Gd.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. Gd.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. Gd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Gd.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. Gd.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Gd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. Gs.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.” s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ IL „ . . • .76
The Seer. „ III, „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . .70
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .70
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .70
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . , .70
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .70
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . .30
Morning Lectures , , . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . _ 5 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A, Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . ... . . 10 G
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
Elanation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
•reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 0
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18 0
The Koran; commonly, called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10 0
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
OPINIONS OE THE PRESS.
“ As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—*
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un •
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIEIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267,High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
Oct. 12,-1877,
HE GREAT aUESTION OF THE DAT.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to he left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PRINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS, — A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema-
ure death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
With each bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, END’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of END'S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
i mmensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
muts be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens--
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L A.C., London, writes
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying, at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not he limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. SOMERBY, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting tetter rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost alwaj srecommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
MESMERISM AND IT'S PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain,
CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Yarious Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Yarious
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies : at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—-Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc,, Pre¬
dicted-Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised’Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:-Action of Magnets,Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural. Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly (Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—^Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—^Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student>-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—^Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVICurative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo. richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILIIAM H. HARRISON,
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to AH Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10, The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility ot the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother-in-Law.—10. Wirbel-bewegung. —17. “ Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—2i. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
“ 14, Rue de la Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for P«rw—PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX
Part 2.—The Wdbblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejatos.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Obtainable at The Spiritusalit Newspaper Branch Office, London.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakop, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
,Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
HOW TO FOEM SPIEIT CIECLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to he found in nearly every household.
Let the room he of a comfortable temperature, hut cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any. table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, hut when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is ’under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals he given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is estabfished.
_ Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then he told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
Virtues and all the failings of humanity.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATUEE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
A LADY ARTIST, Spiritualist, and pupil of
Signor Belucci, Florence, and other schools, will, from
the 15th October, receive sitters for portraits in her studio,
19, Holland-street, Kensington. Moderate prices to mediums
and Spiritualists.
w
L. CANEY, photographer. Studio
• opposite the Unity Church, 151, Upper-street,
Islington, London, N.
ITERARY.-—A gentleman of considerable
i practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address C.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.C.
Just published, price 4d.
CLAIRVOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
(fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
ciown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the. first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will he posted for one year, pos
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
EC.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
