Registered as a Newspaper.
mttned^b toit| Spiritualism iu €r^at gritaffi
No. 393.—(Yol. XYL—No. 10.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY, - r -ai:
A FI MY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel*street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING- LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEYOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £l Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to 11 The Proprietors of ( The Theosophist' ” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism,
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms * a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
The ’Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with having written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher’s Circular,
), 33, Museum-street, London, W
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 5, 1880.
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism,
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
and
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’elock for reception of
friends.
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
“Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Teubner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W-
Crown 8vo., pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its hearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . .His eclecticism has led him to recognize philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism., and other painf ul.maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEE RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can he built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored simply by
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.
Any form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. "Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (comer of Moscow-road and
Hereford-road), Bayswater, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MR. W. EGLINTON,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT,
LONDON, S.W.
ATOTiCE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
JLM NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily;
and eight to ten. Evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
M
RS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Days
and hours of business—Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
4, Keppell-street, Russell-square, W.O.
pHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
V_^ DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earls-court, S.W.
32 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 3d.
RATIONALE OF SPIRITUALISM.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane.
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper; published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
Just Published.
TER FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a grea,t number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
i st free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
T UN AOY LAW REFORM
Jj ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W 0. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 p m. Saturdays 1 to 2
Dessert services cheap:—
J. M. DALE desires to call attention to the
above. A number of Services he is selling at un¬
precedentedly low prices during the present month.
50, Crawford Street, Bryanston Square West, London.
QUEBEC HALL, 25, Great Quebec
Street, London. The Maiylebone Association
of Spiritualists will hold its Anniversary Meeting on
Sunday next, March 7 th. Tea at 5.30 p.m. Reading
&c. by Miss Waite and others. Sacred Songs and
Duetts. Tickets Is. On Monday at 8 promptly, Miss
Waite’s Entertainment, followed by Dancing. Ad¬
mission Free. Collection at close.
No. 393.—VOLUME SIXTEEN; NUMBER TEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 6 th, 1880.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Peice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist :—
His Imperial Highness Ni¬
cholas op Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
op Caithness
The Baroness Yon Vay, Coun¬
tess Wiirmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakop,
St. Petersburg
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
<the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Calder, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Maxdougall Gregory
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John James
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
J. T. Markley, Esq.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Marry at
Madame Isabel de Steiger
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Yon Dirckinck-Holm-
peld (Holstein)
J, W. Edmonds, Esq.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adelberth de Bourbon
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Yarley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Friese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.,
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 33, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Yia Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Yia del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai ; 61, East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S. ; Beligio-Philosophieal Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 326, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
BENEFICENT HAUNTINGS.
This number of The Spiritualist contains
much about the visions seen at a Catholic
Church in the village of Knock, County Mayo,
Ireland, and the subsequent healing of in¬
veterate diseases, such as blindness from birth,
at the sacred spot. There is no reason to
doubt either the good faith of the witnesses, or
the reality of the cures effected.
The human mind cannot rest satisfied with
isolated facts which are outside the range of
ordinary experience, and temporarily separated
from any system of philosophy, consequently
not a few thinkers will desire to know the
meaning and the place in nature of such
psychical and physiological phenomena, as have
been evolved in the Mayo village.
In the first place did the Yirgin Mary, with
the stars and other glorious surroundings, ap¬
pear in objective form at the Church ? Ko;
because some of the witnesses saw more or less
than others who were observing at the same
time, and most of the onlookers saw nothing
till they were told what they ought to see.
The few witnesses who saw the apparitions
were doubtless mesmeric sensitives, and syn¬
chronous waking visions as well as synchronous
dreams are common among such persons. More¬
over, the visions were of the character of those
which are seen under mesmeric influence, and
not of the nature of the appearance presented
by materialised apparitions. The differences
between these two classes of apparitions are
set forth, with numerous matter-of-fact ex¬
amples in the book, Spirits before our Eyes.
The next question is, did the whole matter
originate in the waking dream of a boy, or was
there an external spirit influence ? The pro¬
bability is that it was a vision produced by the
action of an unembodied spirit upon mesmeric
sensitives, not alone because it was so entirely
unexpected by the first witnesses, but because
such synchronous visions can be proved to have
in other cases been due to the action of an
outside spirit influence, and because the cures
subsequently effected at the Church tend to
show that some powerful psychical influence
appertains to the spot.
110
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 5, 1880.
On the 16th April, 1846, Philip Weld, 11 times malicious order. The spirits also are so
nephew of Cardinal Weld, and son of Mr. James k low that when they appear to persons in the
Weld, of Archers Lodge, near Southampton, k| house, they show themselves in materialised
was drowned at Ware. Mr. Weld and his j>! form.
daughter Catherine were walking at the time |S| But why should there be no beneficent
along a turnpike in road, daylight, and both Kj hauntings ? Such would account for the heal-
of them saw the apparition of Philip, standing j?| ing powers connected with sacred tombs,
by the side of his patron saint, St. Stanislaus m sacred wells, and sacred relics. The spirits,
Bbstka. A labouring man walked through |<| being of a higher order, would have no power
the apparent spirits, without seeing them. M to appear in materialised form, and could only
Thus did information of the death reach Mr. ;| make their presence known by exerting
and Miss Weld before they received it in any m mesmeric influence over sensitives. In such
other way. Subsequently, the boy’s tutor, jsj case, what the spirit thought the medium
the Yery Eev. Dr, Cox, called personally to jcj would see, this being the philosophy of a pro¬
give Mr. Weld the sad news. Here, then, we |H portion of symbolical visions,
have a case in which two persons saw what a |)i As in a place haunted by the lower order of
third did not see, yet, an outside spiritual jsj spirits, some great crime has usually been
power was really the cause of the apparition, |1| committed, we should expect some great act
and not brain disease. The spiritual eyes of !>! of virtue, or of self-sacrifice to have been com-
the seers were temporarily opened. Such was jfl mitted where beneficent hauntings rule. This
also probably the case at the village of Knock. j)j is clearly the case when men of prayer and
Were the subsequent cures of diseases the |<j real self-sacrifice have died, and healing powers
result of the faith of the patients ? Most |j>| have afterwards been manifested near their
likely not, though faith or spiritual sympathy |>j tombs. Has any self-sacrificing devotee died
aids in such matters. Dr. Newton, the heal- !<1 recently near Knock, so that it might be sup-
ing medium, has through his powers cured jcj posed he has returned to earth to expiate a
thousands of people of inveterate diseases by [H life of blind faith by beginning a life of works ?
the laying on of hands; scores of certificates to pj . .
that effect are printed in his recent book, Kj
The Modern Bethesda, and a considerable kj AN IRISH LOURDES,
number of the cures he effected in London are !>[ From the Daily Telegraphy February 28th, 1880.
recorded in the earlier volumes of The Spirit- j>j Some time ago a rumour began to spread
ualist. We followed him about London for jd through Ireland that supernatural manifesta-
some weeks to make sure of the actual facts, ?! tions had taken place at or near the Catholic
and by the mere laying on of hands he cured m chapel of Knock, in county Mayo. It was
about one person out of every five who came |Sj stated that an apparition of the Yirgin Mary,
to him afflicted with inveterate diseases of attended by celestial personages supposed to
long standing. For every single startling < represent St. Joseph and St. John, had ap-
cure affected at Knock, Dr. Newton can proba- j)j peared to several persons on a certain night in
bly point to five hundred of his own. He m August ; subsequently to others on New
sometimes cured people who did not believe R| Year’s Eve, and a third time, to yet others,
in his power, and who had no faith in him, ?! 011 the eve of the Epiphany. The report ex-
and there is evidence that he did this work ])| cited a good deal of attention, and presently
under the control of unseen spirits. ; sj found its Way into the newspapers, a Tuam
Are the doctrines of the Catholic Church a kj journal being the first to publish it to the
necessary element in the production of such ? world, followed by the Nation, which sent
results? No. Dr. Newton believed in no l>j down a special correspondent charged to
doctrine but “ Love to God, and Love to man.” -m collect evidence from the witnesses. But this
He condemned the usual dogmas of all |y was not all. A further rumour stated that
Churches, and in an artless and guileless j?j miracles of healing were frequently wrought
manner, for he was a man who was not of this |?j upon sick persons who made pilgrimages and
earth in his ways, he would utter sentiments |>j performed devotions at the favoured shrine,
calculated to make the blood of orthodox <1 that miraculous virtues were possessed by the
people run cold in their veins. kj very plaster from the walls of the church, and
When houses are haunted physical manifes- j)j that the faithful were crowding in ever-in-
tations are produced in them, the intelligence |Sj creasing numbers to the place thus suddenly
connected with which is of a low and some- Is I dragged from obscurity into fame. So matters
March 5, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ill
stood when, in the discharge of a mission
connected with Irish distress, I found myself
at Claremorris, a little town about six miles
from the much talked-of village. It became
my duty there to seek an interview with the
parish priest—the Very Eev. Ulick J. Bourke,
Canon of Tuam, and late President of St.
Jarlath’s College—a gentleman well known to
philologists as the author of a learned work on
the Aryan origin of the Gaelic race. Canon
Bourke, having acted on a commission ap¬
pointed by the Archbishop of Tuam to take
the evidence of those who asserted that they
had seen the apparitions, was well able to put
me in the way of ascertaining particulars for
myself, and, within an hour of my introduction
to him, 1 was face to face with one of the
persons who deposed to the August vision.
This was a boy of about fourteen years of age,
named Hill—a bright, intelligent little fellow,
who told his tale clearly and simply. I shall
put Hill’s statement in the first person, with¬
out pledging myself, however, to literal exact¬
ness, and premising that the narrative was not
continuous, but frequently interrupted by
questions needless to repeat here. u I some¬
times go out to the bog for turf, and did so on
the day of the August apparition, taking my
little brother with me. When night came on
I went into the house of a relative not far from
Knock chapel. It was raining hard, and very
dark. While there some one (naming him)
ran in and said, ‘ 0, come up to the chapel
and see the Blessed Yirgin against the wall! ’
We all ran up, and saw the end of the chapel
covered with light. At first we stood against
the wall of the yard, but presently we got
over and went close up to the gable. Then
we saw the Blessed Virgin standing like a
statue so (lifting his hands and eyes); on, her
right was St. Joseph bending towards her,
and on her left St. John, dressed like a bishop,
his left hand holding a book, his right raised,
with two fingers pointing upwards. Above,
and to the left of St. John, was an altar with
a lamb on it, round which moved what seemed
to be the wings of angels, whose heads and
bodies I could not see. We stood and looked
at the figures a long time, and my little
brother cried out that he wanted to take them
home. They did not move, but lights kept
playing about the wall. Presently there were
ten or eleven of us looking, and we all knelt
down and said ‘ Our Father ’ and ‘Hail Mary!5
Then, as the rain kept on and we were very
wet, we went away. I did not look behind
me when standing in front of the figures, and
Vj cannot say whether any light was to be seen
| except on the wall.” Having told this story
<! in the manner already described, Hill departed,
<| and presently a lad was brought in who wit-
5| nessed the appearance in his company. The
<| new-comer’s statement did not agree in every
detail with that of his predecessor, but sub-
)j stantially both were in accord. He, for ex-
J! ample, saw no “ angel’s wings ” fluttering
sj round the lamb, but only lights twinkling
d like stars. It was also stated that, though
'j the rain beat against the chapel, the wall on
y\ which the light shone remained dry. To the
sj question “ Did the figures look as though they
(j were part of a picture ? ” this witness replied,
“ No ; they stood out from the wall like
$j statues, and we seemed to see round them.”
To the further question, “Was the light on
?j the gable a circle ? ” he answered “ No; it
;j covered the wall.”
On the morning after my interview with
■)j these early witnesses of the alleged marvel, I
accepted Canon Bourke’s invitation to drive
>| over to Knock and see the place for myself.
>j The six miles of road leading thither were not
51 lonely. It was market day in Claremorris, and
the small farmers, who abound in that part of
>j Mayo, were hastening townward with a multi-
Sj tude of asses bearing oats, or potatoes, or hay
for sale at the advanced rates now “ruling,”
I But all the travellers we met or passed were
)| not on marketing thoughts intent. Some had
bj an “ up-all-night ” appearance, and, indeed,
\j had been keeping vigil in the chapel to which
we were hastening; while others, going the
!>j same way as ourselves, moved haltingly on foot,
5 or swiftly on cars, in search of miraculous
<j deliverance from the ills they suflered. The
?j country thereabouts is very uninteresting. It
); stretches west and east, in long undulations,
sj without variety or charm. On reaching the
j summit of one of the gentle rises, a tall square
i tower appeared above the next eminence, and
Sj signalised our approach to Knock. The modest
s cottage of the parish priest, Archdeacon
(j Cavanagh, lies in the intervening hollow ;
>| but before reaching it the traveller passes a
>1 thatched and whitewashed dwelling-house,
sj bearing the distinguishing mark of a police
cj barrack, One of the stalwart members of the
>! “ Royal Irish ” chanced to be standing in the
sj road as we drove up, and him Canon Bourke
0 introduced as a witness worth hearing. The
?j policeman cheerfully came round to my side of
Sj the car and told his story, in effect as follows:
i| “ On a certain night (named), about twelve
J| o’clock, I and a comrade set out on patrol, our
112
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Mat?.(Tft 5, 1880.
road taking ns Upast the chapel. When
opposite the building we saw people, and
heard the sound of praying, so we went in to
look round and ascertain that all was right.
Down to that time, though others professed to
have witnessed the apparitions, we had not.
On going round to the east gable some one
cried, 4 There’s the light!’ and then both I and
my comrade saw the end of the church covered
with a rosy sort of brightness, through which
what seemed to be stars appeared. I saw no
figures, nor did my comrade, bnt some women
who were praying there declared that they
beheld the blessed Virgin, and one went nearly
frantic in consequence. We stood and watched
the light for some time before starting again
on our rounds.” “ How do you explain the
light ?” I can’t explain it.” <£ Did you look
around to see where it came from ?” £< I did;
but everything was dark. There was no light
anywhere except on the gable.” Thus the
policeman, who offered to produce his comrade
in corroboration. Leaving him, we drove to
the cottage of the parish priest, and found him
in his garden, whither he had gone, perhaps,
for relaxation after getting through the multi¬
tude of letters that reach him by every post.
Archdeacon Cavanagh is reputed along all the
country side as a man of simple piety, gentle
manners, and a modest and retiring disposition.
This character is justified by his appearance.
He at once makes a favourable impression,
and is about the last man in the world whom
a stranger would look upon and suspect of
anything but straightforward, honest conduct.
The very reverend gentleman gave his visitors
a cordial welcome, and soon, in the little
parlour of the cottage, I heard all that he could
tell about the visions and miracles, in which
he believes with unquestioning and reverend
faith. As to the visions, the archdeacon said,
in effect: ££ On the night of the first apparition
my housekeeper asked leave to visit a friend,
and remained out unusually late. While
wondering what had become of her, she made
her appearance in a very excited state, ex¬
claiming £ Oh ! your reverence, the wonderful
and beautiful sight! The blessed Virgin has
appeared up at the chapel with St. Joseph
and St. John, and we have stood looking at
them this long time. Oh ! the wonderful
sight! ’ Inferring that the vision had dis¬
appeared, and omitting to question my house¬
keeper on that point, I did not go up, and I
have regretted ever since that I omitted to do
so. On another occasion a messenger was sent
down to fetch me. I was in bed, after a
fatiguing day, and, having a prospect of hard
work on the morrow, did not rise.” This
manifestly appears has a triumph of the flesh
over the spirit. ££ I shall ever feel sorry that
a sight of the apparitions has been denied me,
but God may will that the testimony to His
blessed Mother’s presence should come from
the simple faithful, and not through the priests.
Though I have not witnessed the Divine
manifestation, I have seen the light, and once,
when standing at some distance from the
chapel, in company with others, a most brilliant
star flashed along the gable, leaving a train of
radiance.” Questioned as to miracles, the
Archdeacon said : ££ I will show you a long
list of cures effected by the Divine interposi¬
tion, and can tell you of one in which I was
an agent. Some little while ago I received a
£ sick call,’ late at night, to a man who was
said to be vomiting blood, and in extreme
danger. Hastening to the house, attended by
a boy with a lantern, I met the father of the
patient coming to hurry me, in distress lest I
should be too late. On reaching the cottage I
found the young man cohered, so to speak,
with blood, and apparently very near death,
but conscious. After ministering to him, I
called for a glass of water, sprinkled on it a
few particles of the mortar from the gable-
wall of the chapel, and bade him drink. He
did so, at once began to recover, and is now
well. I can speak to other cases, but especially
of a man who came from Cork afflicted with a
polypus, which extended into his windpipe,
and, so said the surgeons, required a dangerous
operation. He was here performing his de¬
votions for several days, and then, to his
astonishment and joy, expelled the abnormal
growth—I saw it—and returned cured.” The
Archdeacon next showed me his list of
££ miracles,” from which I quote a few special
cases : Bridget Nearney, of Strokestown, blind
for seventeen years, can see. Maria Conolly,
a cripple for thirteen years, is now able to
walk. John O’Brien, who was bom blind, has
the use of his eyes. Belinda Mash, of Ballina,
dumb for six years, has recovered the power
of speech. Patrick Boyle, of Glasgow, came
to Knock afflicted which heart disease, and
relumed cured. Michael Marin, of Lisakullen,
subject to epileptic fits, visited the shrine, ana
is now free from their attacks. The daughter
of R. Walsh, of Clifden, regained sight after
bathing her eyes in water containing a piece of
plaster from the chapel-wall. John Roache,
of Roosky, Roscommon, stone blind for seven¬
teen years, went away able to see. John
March 5, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
113
O’Connor, of Ardagh, came to Knock with, a
bent leg, supported by an iron crutch, and
returned home, leaving the crutch as a
memorial of cure. Owen Halpen, of Meg,
Drogheda, troubled with deafness, placed a bit
of the mortar in his ears, and had the sense
fully restored to him. I might continue these
extracts from the Archdeacon’s records, but
space would fail for a complete setting forth of
the alleged cases of miraculous healing.
Before leaving the priest’s cottage to view
the chapel, I saw the very reverend gentleman’s
housekeeper, an elderly woman, whose appear¬
ance suggested neither romanticism nor imagi¬
nativeness, whatever may be said of her cre¬
dulity. Spoken to of the August apparition,
she stated : “ I had gone to visit a friend, and,
as it was very dark when I set out to return,
someone came with me. Our way took us past
the church, and, on reaching the end of the
building, we saw a light on the wall, and the
figure of the Blessed Virgin standing in the
middle of it, a little above the ground.” The
housekeeper^ description of the figures agreed
in the main with that of other witnesses, and
need not be repeated. She continued: “We
went close up and fell on our knees, one woman
wanting to embrace the Blessed Virgin’s feet.
We stayed a long time, although it was rain¬
ing hard; but, at last I ran home, dripping
wet, and told his reverence what I had seen.
The figures did not look like those in a
picture, but like statues. N o light was-
visible anywhere else.” Leaving the house¬
keeper to her duties, and meeting at the door
a man whose sight, long lost, was said to be
returning, the two priests and myself went up
the road towards the chapel, having the
famous gable before us the whole way. I saw
that, for fully half its height, it had been
boarded over—a measure necessary, the Arch¬
deacon told me, to protect the wall, since the
people after having removed the covering of
plaster, began to pick the mortar from between
the stones, as, indeed, they are now doing
round the comers, where nothing prevents.
My first business was, of course, to take, as
Jack Bunsby would say, “the bearings” of
the place. The chapel is a plain cruciform
building, having a tall, square tower at its
west end, and at the opposite extremity a
sacristy. It is on the gable of the sacristy, at
the far east of the building, that the figures
are said to have appeared. The chapel stands
in a rather extensive yard, which is bounded,
opposite the gable, and distant from it some
twenty-five paces, by a dilapidated wall about
four feet high. Beyond this is a large field
and the open country. Within the yard, a
little to the north of a line drawn from the
north angle of the gable to the low wall,
stands a school-house, its gable directly facing
towards the east. Obviously, therefore, if
the appearances alleged to have been seen on
the chapel-wall were due to a magic-lantern,
the operator, supposing he could have focussed
his picture at such a distance, must have taken
post behind the low wall; or, if stationed in
the school, must have thrown the image on
the “ screen ” at a very considerable angle.
The wall theory may be dismissed, because
over its tumbled stones the first witnesses
passed to get a nearer view, and the glare of
the lantern would at once have been detected
by the observant policemen. There remains
the notion of a manipulator stationed in the
school-house. I gave my best attention to
the windowless gable of that building and
could find no sign of a hole or crack from
chimney to foundation. Going inside among
the children, to look at the wall from that
point of view, the plaster appeared untouched,
and the roof too much open to admit of a man
working between its apex and what there was
of ceiling. In the result, and despite a wish
to explain the wonder naturally, I was obliged
to conclude that the reported apparitions,
however caused, could not have been, and,
therefore, were not, due to a magic lantern.
With any theory not determinable by a
reference to considerations absolutely positive,
such as those just touched upon, I have
nothing now to do.
Mondays and Thursdays are the times when
Knock is overwhelmed with pilgrims, many
thousands being frequently present at once,
but on no day of the week is the place
deserted, and it assuredly afforded an extra¬
ordinary spectacle last Wednesday. About
ten paces from the gable stands a small
roughly constructed pen, wherein pilgrims
who no longer require the aid of sticks and
crutches deposit them before leaving. Scores
of these discarded props to tottering feet were
lying there; and a few others, besides two
very battered umbrellas, were suspended from
the boards that protect the sacred wall. It is
needless to say that the wall itself, boarded
though it be, excites the utmost reverence.
I saw a score of people kneeling before it
repeating prayers, some of them knowing the
spot on which they believe the Virgin ap¬
peared ; while others had brought sick
children, upon whom they lavished attention
114
THE S PI KIT UAL I ST.
March 5, 1880.
in the intervals of devotion. Others, again,
wandered round and round the chapel, telling
their beads as they went—an act of faith, so
I was assured, altogether self-imposed. Yet
others, mostly afflicted with diseases, stood
about in the road or enclosure, waiting, like
some at the Pool of Bethesda long ago, u for
the moving of the waters.” Night and day
they wait, filling the chapel during the dark
hours, and praying there so as that the sound
of their voices can be heard far down the road.
At least 200 persons were in the sacred edifice
when I entered. The interior is poor of
aspect. Beyond the unpretending altar, and
two or three small windows filled with stained
glass, there are no attempts at decoration,
and very inefiective ones at convenience, since
all the benches in the place would not seat
more than thirty people. The floor is roughly
flagged and full of holes made by devotees
who, in their eagerness to possess some blessed
substance, have dug beneath the level of the
stones. But, holes or no holes, the pilgrims
covered almost the entire area, from the altar
rails to the western door and from side to side
of the transept, their muttered petitions
making a continuous and solemn hum. Many
sick had been brought there, and some pro¬
fessed to have gained much benefit. A poor
paralytic, seated in a wheeled chair, rejoiced
at a feeling of warmth in his lower limbs; a
woman, who had crawled for years on her hands
and knees, was found sitting upright, and
delightedly showing how she could use her
feet a very little. Such sights were visible
more or less on every hand, and as the Arch¬
deacon went about among the people one and
another would go to him and tell of benefit
received by themselves or their friends, and
get for answer, “ Thank God and His Blessed
Mother.”
My story is told, and I have nothing more
to say. The conclusion to be drawn from it
one way or another is the business of the
reader.
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze is in San Francisco.
“Blood and Fire.”—Mr. James Cain sends us the
following notice, recently copied verbatim by him from
a large poster outside a chapel door in Salmon’s Lane,
Limehouse. The whole of the notice was written in
capital letters: “ Blood and Fire. Some of the Devil’s
Use to Be’s will D.Y. fire the first vollee, in this place,
at 11 a.m. Guns loaded at 7 a.m. Fireing all day.
By order of the King of Kings, and Captain Morrell,
or Salvation Dealer, on front of the enemy. The
wounded will be attended by the Great Physician.
At night, the converted cannen seen at 11 a.m- and
7 p.m.”
[if
!>!
i>!
m
:<!
i<!
!>!
In
PSYCHOGRAPHY.
Last Saturday night, at a seance held at
129, Gower Street, Londou, the residence of
Captain John James, formerly of the Ninetieth
Light Infantry, Mr. Bita was the medium.
The sitters present were Captain James, Miss
C. A. Burke, Major General Maclean, Mr.
Wheelhouse, Mr. Ernest Wilding, Mr. F.
Collingwood, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Before the medium arrived, General Mac-
lean took a hinged book slate, with two leaves,
quite clean, and before closing the leaves, put a
crumb of pencil about a sixth of an inch long
between them. He then tied the leaves of the
slate tightly together, in the manner indicated
in the following diagram:—
N
A
W
H
A piece of twine was first tied tightly round
the slate at a, e, with the knot at e, where the
edges of the two leaves of the slate touched
each other. The knot was then sealed with
sealing-wax, and stamped. This seal covered
the knot, and it likewise sealed the edges of
the leaves together. The two brass hinges of
the slate were on the other side, between n
and w.
A second piece of twine was next tied over
the closed covers in the direction h, k, and the
knot and edges of the cover were sealed over
at k. The wax, as before, was stamped while
hot.
On one side of the slate the strings passed
each other at the central point f. On the
other side the string h, x, was passed once
round the string a, e, at the point f, before
being drawn tight and knotted at x.
Strips of paper, the full width of the two
wooden edges of the slates, were then gummed
over the closed edges as far round the slates
as denoted by the dotted line N, h, e, x, w.
Thus the sealed knots at x and e, were covered
by the strips of gummed paper.
The slates were thus held together by two
brass hinges, two strings tightly drawn and
knotted, two seals, and by strips of gummed
paper. Everybody present saw that the slates
had no writing on them before they were so
March 5, 1880.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
115
secured, i nd the medium did not arrive in the
house until all the operations just described had
been completed. The book slate did not be¬
long to him but to Captain James. Its size
was 11 inches by 8 inches.
Mr. F. Collingwood brought a somewhat
smaller book slate of his own with him to the
stance. He put a crumb of pencil between the
leaves, and in the presence of the company
tied and sealed the slates in much the way
already described. Mr. Rita did not touch the
slates before the stance began, and there is no
evidence that he did so afterwards.
When the stance began, Captain James and
his guests sat round a table in total darkness,
and after the lapse of about twenty minutes,
during a portion of which time some of the
ordinary dark* circle manifestations took place,
the voice of the controlling spirit asked General
Maclean, Mr. Collingwood and Mr. Harrison
to place one hand each on the two slates which
were lying on the top of each other on the
table. They did so for about five minutes,
when feeble vibrations were felt, as if writing
were being executed inside the slates, and
feeble noises, as of writing on slates, were
heard.
The gas was then lit, and the closed slates ex¬
amined. The knots, strings, seals, and gummed
papers were in the same condition as at first.
They had manifestly not been tampered with.
The strings were still tightly strained round
the slates, without any slack.
After all present were satisfied that the
fastenings were intact, the strings were cut,
and the slates opened.
Inside the slate fastened by General Mac-
lean, it was found that the words “ Good
night ” had been scrawled in very large badly
formed letters. In Mr. Collingwood’s slate the
words “ God bless you ” had been written. The
writing was in dry and dusty slate pencil.
Later on, one of the spirits was asked if he
could cut out with a pair of scissors, in pitch
darkness, the outline of a head and profile
of about six inches average diameter, which
had been previously drawn with a pencil on a
sheet of paper. The spirit, in reply, asked
Mr. Collingwood to hold one side of the sheet
of paper in his hand, and then with scissors
cut out four-fifths of the outline as requested,
thereby proving the power of the spirit to see
perfectly in the dark.
 ♦
The Glasgow Association of Spiritualists will hold
a conference in its Rooms on Sunday morning, March
7th, at 11,30, and at 6.30 will be addressed by Mr.
Harper, of Birmingham.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents :who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned; copies
should he kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.
PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
Sir,—In Commandant Ay 1 ward’s recent hook “The
Transvaal of To-day ” there is a very good ghost story
which I think is worth transferring to your columns :
it will he found on pp. 204-209, of the work mentioned.
It is interesting to note how similar these occurrences
are in various parts of the world, breaking out amongst
people who are unlikely to have heard of the corres¬
ponding disturbances elsewhere.
Two clergymen not long ago sent me reports of
mysterious occurrences in their houses, stone throwing,
&c., of which they were eye witnesses and careful
investigators ; one of my informants was the rector of
a country parish in Ireland, and the other the rector of
a parish in Staffordshire, and there are of course
numerous similar published reports equally well
authenticated.
Could any of your readers who have sufficient leisure
supply me with a classified list of trustworthy cases
bearing on this subject,—cases either directly known
to them or properly accredited reports published in
your paper. You do not, I believe, issue a classified
index to your paper: it would be very useful. May I
also ask for any good cases of mind-reading, or of good
subjects in the so-called “willing” game.
Letters may be addressed to me as above; no names
will be publisned unless permission is given.
W. F. Barrett.
Monkstown, Dublin. -  
SUNDAY MEETINGS.
Sir,—Thank you for your kind insertion of the
announcement of the Goswell Hall Meeting for Sunday.
This movement at Goswell Hall was commenced
about four months ago by a few humble Spiritualists,
in the hope of doing something towards spreading the
cause, and that others, more able, would come to their
assistance, supplying some of their deficiencies ; which
latter expectation has not yet been realised to any
considerable extent. At the same time, the movement
progresses. The Goswell Hall undertaking is not yet
paying itself, but if a little more interest could be
created, doubtless it could soon be made to do so.
Mr. W. Wallace, pioneer medium, will occupy the
platform on Sunday next, March 7th, and the following
Sunday evening Miss Keeves, trance speaker, will
officiate. H. J. Stevens, Hm. Sec.,
224, Albany Road, Camberwell, S.E., March 2nd, 1880.
SPIRITUALISM IN GERMANY.
Sir,—Dr. Robert Friese, of Breslau, has done eminent
service to the advance of truth, by issuing a pamphlet
in reply to an attack on Spiritualism by a Dr. Nagel,
who misguided his audience by speaking of the folly of
“ reviving ghost-stories,” as the chief feature of the
new dispensation, and by ridiculing its advocates,
Prof. Zollner and similar victims of conjuring not
excepted. Space would not permit me to enter into
the details of this excellent paper, but Dr. Friese has
hit the nail on the head, completely showing up the
ignorance of the rabid unbeliever.
If more such attacks are equally ably responded to,
the Professoren diinkel (learned conceit) in Germany will
soon abate, and a fair hearing for Spiritualism result.
C. Reimers. ;
116
THE SPIEITUALIST.
APPARITIONS AND LUMINOUS PHENOMENA.
Sir, —You recently directed tlie attention of the readers j i
of The Spiritualist, to the apparitions of the Virgin j1
Mary, and to the alleged miraculous cures at the most l(
significantly named village of Knock, in Ireland. I K
take the liberty of forwarding by this post a copy of i|
to-day’s Manchester Guardian, in which you will find a <
description of the state of things the correspondent |<
found there on his recent visit, and his comments D
thereon, and I judge thereby that he has read the j<
wish you expressed to have the phenomena investi- o
gated. However, from his statement it would seem j)
that with the most ardent faith, there are some failures j<
to effect cures of such diseases as blindness. I am not o
surprised at this, with such a motley crowd of people j)
always on the spot, and each devotee exercising his or K
her physical, mental, and perhaps in some instances |>
mesmeric powers, for the healing of the particular j<
malady from which each was suffering.
Some few months after my beginning to investigate j)
Spiritualism, myself and a few others had held a j(
stance at a friend’s house, which I was the last to leave, o
It was a fine summer evening, about a quarter past j)
ten o’clock, and light enough for objects to be dis- K
tinctly seen, I had only gone a few yards up the j)
street, when my attention was attracted by a singular !(
appearance which seemed to come through the broken o
window of an empty house on my left hand. When it j)
reached the footpath, I found the figure to be shaped K
somewhat like a dog, white and cloud-like, which \)
quickly rose higher and higher, and finally assumed ;)
the figure of a woman dressed in a beautifully flowing \(
white robe.
The figure walked on the left-hand side, crossed over |(
in a diagonal direction to the other side of the street, K
then vanished through another empty house, passing
quite out of sight.
The apparition was the only one I have ever seen, j)
The figure was that of my mother; to be mistaken was k
impossible. Her majestic carriage, finely formed K
figure, and unequalled walk were as distinctly visible i)
as in real life.
Whilst I was carefully noting this, to me, strange K
and extraordinary phenomenon, my movements were j)
being watched by a man and his wife, who were j(
standing and talking together on the foot-path, opposite | S
my friend’s house ; they were carefully noticing a most !?
strange appearance on the door, and called me quickly, K
to look at it.
The door shone like the summer sun on plate glass, K
and we became alarmed, for we thought it was on fire, j)
and we caused our friends to re-open it before the i)
family went to bed, in order to satisfy ourselves that K
all was right in the house. The radiantly shining I)
door gradually assumed its natural appearance on being j (
opened.
The phenomenon was seen by myself and two other j)
disinterested witnesses. The poor earnest Irish devotee j(
will seek in vain for the re-appearance of the heavenly K
phenomena amongst the earthly stones and mortar of j)
the primitive temple at Knock. Those who have gone |(
on a pilgrimage, miracle seeking, ought to remember j>
that only one Enoch is recorded as having walked with ; r
God; and only one Elijah, centuries afterwards, was I)
permitted to enter the fiery chariot and ascend into the !)
region of the infinite. Delta.
Hyde, near Manchester, February 23rd, 1880.
Mr. E. W. Wallis, the trance medium, has recently ?
by his public addresses, been stirring up interest in |s
Spiritualism in the south-west of England. n
March 5, 1880.
THE APPARITION OE THE VIRGIN MARY
IN COUNTY MAYO.
(From the “ Manchester Guardian,” February 23rd, i880).
After I had seen what I could of the immediate
Westport district, I availed myself of the railway to
make a short excursion to Knock, a name which must
be familiar to your readers as the scene of the recent
alleged apparition of the Virgin Mary. Wherever
I went in Mayo and Connemara I had heard stories
of the miracles performed at Knock, and had conceived
a strong desire to see the place for myself—not at all
to trouble myself with “ investigation ” into the
appearance, which could only be done by one accurately
acquainted with the place and the witnesses, if worth
doing at all—but to see the demeanour of the people.
I had to drive half a dozen miles from Claremorris to
reach the place, which is situated in the midst of an
almost level tract of bog land of the dismall est des¬
cription, and excites a natural surprise as to how the
village could ever have come into existence at all on so
forlorn and desolate a spot. The all-important chapel,
on the west end of which the figures of the Virgin
Mary, St. John, and St. Joseph are said to have been
seen one evening about six weeks ago, is the first
object one sees as the car tops the crest of the little
hill immediately above the villege. It is an ordinary
building enough, of the usual cruciform shape, with
a tolerable tower. The place was black with people.
Even at some distance you could see them kneeling
and standing about the churchyard and pressing in
and out of the chapel. Coming near the centre
of attraction, the car went at a foot’s pace, for the
narrow country road was lined with stalls for the sale
of eatables, and any empty spaces were filled up with
vehicles and pedestrians. I made my way at first into
the chapel, which was packed. The people were
kneeling in every direction, many of them on the clay
floor, which was full of large holes, owing to the
scraping away of the soil by specially enthusiastic
devotees, and there was a hum of prayer. All who
could get near enough were saying their devotions
before a little shrine, where stood an image of the
Virgin, with the two hands upraised to the level of the
shoulders, much as she is said to have been seen on
the wall of the chapel outside. After squeezing my
way through the crowd with some difficulty, I went
round to the western front, where the vision is supposed
to have been seen. I found the whole of the wall
boarded up to a height of eight feet with solid planking.
If this precaution had not been taken the wall would
have been down before this, as the people first scraped
away the plaster, then the mortar, and were finally
attacking the large stones of which the chapel is built.
Round the corner on the south side a number of men
were busily at work upon the plaster with penknives,
and that side too will have to be boarded up before
long. The plaster is mainly used for the eyes, whether
to cure total or partial blindness, or merely for the
ophthalmia which is common in the district, I will
leave it for greater authorities than myself to determine.
A “ patriotic ” Irish print which has given a full, true,
and particular account of the Knock miracles, narrates
a case of a beautiful little girl, previously blind of one
eye, whom her mother had brought at great expense
from Liverpool, and who, after nine days’ stay at
Knock, had the sight of her eye restored. It so
happened, however, that I came across a substantial
farmer’s wife—such, at least, I took her to be—of
Castlerea, who told me that she had travelled in the
train with this very lady on her return from Knock.
The lady, who could think of nothing but her child,
March 5, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
117
told the girl to put her hand over her right eye, and
asked her if she could open the other. “ Oh, yes, I
can open it mamma.” “But what do you see out of
it, my child?” “Nothing, mamma.” The poor
woman sighed, and said “ Take your bottle then, and
put on a little more of the holy plaster,” which the
poor child did, but without obvious restorative effect.
However, I am deviating into “ investigation.” To
return to the chapel. For a radius of some twenty
yards from the west front, the ground has been churned
up by countless feet into a sea of mud of the filthiest
and clammiest description. All over this men and
women were kneeling, regardless alike of the steady
rain and the filth into which they were sinking. Some
more fortunate than others had put a couple of stones
together to kneel on. Other provident individuals
had brought a wisp of hay with them for the same
purpose. But the great majority were kneeling simply
in the mud. The crowd was thickest just under the
wall. A well-dressed woman who was kneeling there
begged me not to come too near her, as her foot was
disabled. Here were lame men, blind men, poor un¬
fortunates half paralysed or otherwise withered or
deformed. A cross had been erected here, across the
centre of which ran the inscription, “It is important
that any miraculous cures wrought here would be made
known to the parish priest.” Below this was a box for
alms, into which contributions were freely dropped,
and on this box stood, when not in use, a little cross,
in white china, and an article of pale blue china, which
looked like the stump of a candlestick, but which, I
suppose, had originally either a cross or some figure at
the top of it. Round the lower part of the cross a
sort of umbrella-stand had been contrived, which was
simply full of crutches, sticks, and the like, all left by
cripples who had gone away miraculously cured. The
little china cross was hardly ever out of use. The people
would take it up, touch the forehead with it, make the
sign of the cross over the body, then kiss it, then make
the sign of the cross again, and so on a number of
times. One poor man I noticed particularly—a fine,
handsome, but dreadfully pale face, with eyes sadly
dimmed by severe ophthalmia. He took the little cross
with unusual fervour, touching his eyes with it as
number of times, and breathing a fervent “ Hail
Mary ” as he did so. I wish I could think that the
poor fellow’s intensity of faith would have its reward.
I had not come to scoff, and I did not regain to pray ;
but I should not envy the man who would regard such
fervour of devotion in a fellow-creature wholly unmoved.
The transition was, however, easy from such tragedy
as this to that element of farce which is never totally
absent from the gravest scene in Ireland, The beggars,
regular professionals, had gathered in crowds, and
were having a fine time. A sturdy blind beggar was
continually roaring in a stentorian and commanding
voice for alms, “As you wish the Blessed Virgin to
be gracious to you, give me a copper,” was this
gentleman’s refrain, which followed one with dismal
iteration wherever one went. There were plenty of
others besides himself halt and lame and maimed, who
were swelling the chorus, but none of them had lungs
like his. I gave a trifle to a poor woman who had no
fingers to take the alms with, but closed two withered
palms together to receive it—a gruesome spectacle.
Immediately all the beggars in the place came after me.
I had fairly to take refuge in the chapel, and even
there a brat of a child came shrieking behind me,
“ For the love of Q-od and the blessed Virgin.” I am
told that the church has not yet spoken about the
Knock miracles, but if it gives them its sanction there
is every prospect of the place becoming the Irish
Lourdes.
MEDIUMS AND MATERIALISED FORMS.
BY A. J. CRANSTOUN.
In that curious hook “ The Dervishes, or
Oriental Spiritualism, ^ by J. P. Brown (page
403) there is a curious story.
u During the Mijra i Shereef(or the Ascension)
of the Blessed Prophet, he beheld a lion in the
seventh heaven of so terrible an appearance
that it was perfectly indescribable. He enquired
of the angel Gabrail what lion it was, and was
informed that it was not a wild animal, but was
the ‘ spirituality ’ of the Imam Alee; adding
1 O friend of Allah, remove your ring from off
your finger, and cast it in its mouth,5 which
he having done, the lion with great humility
and many caresses, took and held the ring in
its mouth. On the day following the Ascen¬
sion, the Prophet gave an account of the same
to the Ashhbs ; and whilst relating the fright¬
ful appearance of the lion, and the matter of
the ring, Alee who was also present, withdrew
the latter from his own mouth, and handed it
to him, greatly to the surprise of all the
spectators.55
I should not have thought it worth while to
copy this story, of what appears an incom¬
prehensible occurrence, had not I myself,
along with four other persons, seen a some¬
what analogous phenomenon, which took place
through the mediumship of Dr. Monck in
London, in December, 1877.
At a stance held in my house, the material¬
ised form called the Mahedi, remained with the
circle, and with the medium, Dr. Monck, in the
same room, with sufficient gas-light to see
clearly everything that took place. Among
other curious phenomena which occurred was
this; the Mahedi drank some water out of a
glass, and the moment after he had done so,
the water came into Dr. Monck5 s mouth ; the
same thing occurred when the Mahedi ate part
of a biscuit, and also the Mahedi went to the
fire, and took a piece of coal out of it, and in
the same moment the coal was found in Dr.
Monck5 s hand.
By what mysterious law takes place this
instantaneous transmission of matter from the
form to the medium ?
Whatever explanation may eventually be
given of this strange phenomenon, it would at
all events appeal' to bear some analogy to, and
throw some light on, the present distressing
case of Mrs. Corner, as proving how identified
the medium and the form really are.
In Dr. Monck’s case, however, the
phenomenon was peculiarly interesting, as all
the facts occurred in the same room, medium
118 THE S PI
form and circle haying been present together
the whole time, and so that every fact from
beginning to end was carefully observed by all.
It becomes more and more evident from this
case of Mrs. Corner’s that if these strange
psychological and spiritual phenomena are to
be investigated as they ought to be, some plan
should be organised by which seances should
be held by closed circles, formed of serious
and sympathetic members, and that the
medium should be one who does not barter his
services for money. That the circle and the
medium should alike possess a serious and earn¬
est desire to discover the truth, and all be ac¬
tuated by high aspirations, so as to attract high
spirits, or ensure a high class of manifestations.
Lucerne, Switzerland.
MATERIALISM AND MODERN IRREVERENCE
BY J. T. MABKLEY.
One of the strongest, outward and visible
signs of the vulgarising spirit of materialism is
the emboldened irreverence of the masses;
chivalry and religious devotion are historic
virtues, an experience only of the great long
ago. In one of the Peterborough newspapers,
I have just read that religious quietude has
to be enforced by the police. Into the beauti¬
ful Cathedral of the above, my native city,
crowds of young men rush with less reverence
before, during and after divine service, than
jockeys would enter the precincts of a stable
of superior race-horses at Newmarket. Some¬
times, when the pulpit oratory of Bishop
Magee attracts a congregation of many
thousands to Peterborough Cathedral, the
hustling and bustling of the less thoughtful
among the throng reminds one of the stampede
for bottled stout at Spiers and Pond’s refresh¬
ment bars, during the halt of an excursion
train, en route for the sea-side. Also, anything
but religious talk is spoken by the lust-
blotched youths who form the outer fringe of
vast congregations in buildings which should
be consecrated by the sentiment of reverence,
and faith in the presence of Grod. What the
police have been called upon to do in Peter¬
borough Cathedral, should only be needed in
a travelling circus, or at a village fair.
Peligious devotion should be its own protection
against the vulgar horse-play of what may be
called the repulsive independence of moral
disrespect. But this is not the case now.
The Bohemians rule in ordinary circles of
society. Manners have deteriorated. In
countless instances,. civilisation has become the
antithesis of refinement. Bail ways, barrack,
RITUALIST. March 5, 1880.
I <i and factory life, and the overcrowding of cities,
j<! have all indirectly combined to revive a mild
j>; type of barbarism in the thick, irregular
|Sj cohesion of the crowd. Tennyson can only
K| sing in rhyme, Patti can only appeal in the
|<! raptures of soul, and Irving only play to the
! [ choice spirits in our midst. The people over-
|)| feed, wax impudent, and despise the higher
Kj spirituality of Christian ethics. Men are
j<! certainly wise as serpents, but not so.harm-
j)j less as doves. Fortunately, in morals, in
Is| intellect, and in social developement there
j<! may be a Darwinian theory of evolution, and
spiritually a survival of the fittest. Even in
! j its artistic forms, and apart from the needless
|s| gloom of Puritan rigour, the moral sweetness
!<j of religious aspiration should be safe from the
| j vulgar treatment of materialistic irreverence.
$ But this is not so. The age is anti-spiritual.
II The partial death of poetry as an ideal en-
| hancement of the better tastes and feelings of
j men, has made Morality more of a commercial
I virtue than an experience of inward rapture.
| Two great passions sway society, namely,
lei combative politics, and the luxurious pursuits
j)j of sport. To patronise these cardinal pastimes,
l)j the great daily organs of the press sacrifice
Is] moral reflections, and the deeper issues of life
II and destiny. Pigeon-slaughtering has more
| interest for newspaper readers than the as-
j cension of family prayer. Were it an age of
I faith in things immortal, it would be an age
I of reverence for things sacred. Graveyards
:A are jesting-grounds; they may be u civilised ”
jS] into arenas of secular recreation. Few—of the
| <I excursion crowds at least—care to respect death,
! I as did the ancients. Nor would many, out-
]>j side ^specially cultured circles, apostrophise
|S| their departedneighbours’ tombs in language
| | used by Longfellow in his reverie of eloquent
| comment on the Jewish cqmetery at Newport:
And these sepulchral stones, so old and brown,
That pave with level flags their burial place,
Seem like the tablets of the Law, thrown down
And broken by Moses at the mountain’s base.
The very names recorded here are strange, ^
Of foreign accent and of different climes:
Alvares and Rivera interchange
With Abraham and Jacob of old times.
What cares your modern materialist for the
j? holy Israelites ? and as for Rivera and Alvares
]>| who, and what were they ? It is a time of
K| grasping and feasting. Let us eat, drink, and
Kj be merry, for to-morrow we die. This ex-
j?j plains our want of respect for the aged, for
];j the dead, and for the beautiful and innocent
jv. lives of the animals.
March 5, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
119
But, say some, this gross defect of moral
reverence is only a sin among the great un¬
washed, whose thoughtlessness is but an in¬
spiration of ignorance. Indeed ! The writer
of this fragment can testify differently. I
know a highly educated coroner, of superior
family and lineage, who says with a material¬
istic laugh, “More dead meat,” when speaking
of his solemn, responsible duties. This is
only a fair example of many, and much worse
cases of viewing life as a huge joke, and death
as an unimportant sleep after lunch, during
the perplexing heat of the dog-days. But
why this lament over the lower forms of
materialistic thought and experience ? The
better class of materialists were not, and are
not irreverent. Grand beings like Shelley,
were as reverent without creeds, as were
Wesley, Keble and Swedenborg, with a
multiplicity of visions, prayers, catechisms,
and melodies from the organ-loft. But after
all, the moral beauty, and the intense religious
fervour of Christ, and of the churches, are the
best safeguards against that deterioration of
manners and manliness, which unlettered
materialism gives to those minds predisposed
to sneer at things which history has held to
be sacred. If Spiritualism really substantiates
this holy faith and feeling, the argument for
religious reverence is complete.
Mr. Anderson, a young medium, occupied the
platform of the Glasgow Association nf Spiritualists
on Sunday evening, the 29th February, and lectured
on “True Greatness.” Short addresses were given
the same evening by Messrs. Coates, Walker, Robertson
and Mr. Wood, of Oldham.
The Countess of Caithness is at Nice and Mr. G. C.
Joad at Mentone ; many other Spiritualists are tem¬
porarily residing in various towns on the northern shore
of the Mediterranean until the close of the winter
season.
At the February Meeting of the Council of the
National Association of Spiritualists, one new member
was elected, namely, Major General Maclean. The
resignations were Mr. T. E. Partridge, Mrs. Burton
Burton, Mr. R. Catling, The Rev. G. White, Mrs. H.
Green, Mr. T. Weeks, Mrs. Weeks, Mrs. Wingfield,
Mrs. Parrock, and a gentleman who does not wish his
name to be published.
Mr. James Coates, Professor of Phrenology and
Mesmerism, has just delivered a course of three
Lectures in the Queen’s Park Rooms, Crosshill,
Glasgow. Subject:—1. How to read Character, or the
Faces we Meet; 2. Chastity, Physiologically and
Hygienically considered ; 3. Health Hints for All.
These Lectures were illustrated by anatomical figures,
busts and diagrams, and by the delineations of the
characters of persons selected by the audiences each
night. The lectures were well attended and well
received.
Rj CLAIRVOYANCE APPLIED TO ASTRONOMY.
|)| Astronomers have strong reasons for supposing that
!X| the planet Jupiter is red hot, and uninhabitable by
j)i organic beings. How far the information in the
jcj following letter is trustworthy it is impossible to say,
isl but if the same clairvoyant had the power of accurately
pi describing by the same means distant places upon this
Rj earth,' it would add weight to any revelations she
IS| might make about the planets :—
To the JEdittr of “ The Standard.”
K Sir,—In reference to your article of Tuesday last on
Pi the redness recently observed by astronomers in the
Ki planet Jupiter, the following may interest your readers,
pj In July, 1877, I took down from the mouth of a
Kj clairvoyante, of the accuracy of whose spiritual vision I
•;SI have had proofs innumerable, this account of Jupiter,
pi she being at the time deeply entranced, and engaged
Ki on an excursion through space. The soul was already
i) | far on its return towards the earth when she
j) | exclaimed:—
SI “ All the planets are inhabited. How innumerable
is the variety of forms! Here is Jupiter; it has nine
Ki moons! yes, nine—some are exceedingly small. And,
iSj oh, how red it is! It has so much iron. And what
P| enormous men and women! There is Evil there, too.
is| Evil is wherever are Matter and Limitation. But the
isi people on Jupiter are far better than we on Earth,
pj They know much more. They are much wiser. There
isi is less of Evil in their planet. Ah! they have another
pj sense, too. I cannot describe it, or tell what it is. It
Isj differs from all the others. We have nothing like it.”
K The ascription to Jupiter of redness was quite
|) I unknown to either of us, so that the perception was
isi independent of previous mental impression.
I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
Paris, February 18th. Edward Maitland.
 <* 
isj Spiritualism in Glasgow.—The Glasgow Association
j>i of Spiritualists has returned to its old quarters, 164,
k| Trongate. The course of winter lectures at the
iS Trades Hall has been beneficial in more ways than
ii one. It has shown the Association the value and
I necessity of organisation ; it has knit the members
| together in greater harmony; it has gained some twenty
| new and intelligent members; placed fifty new volumes
i in the library, and given a course of fifteen lectures
i to the Glasgow public, in one"of the most central and
j respectable halls in the city. Organisation has also
greatly increased the enthusiasm, earnestness and
I liberality of the individual members of the Association,
i The following speakers occupied the platform during
j the course :—Mr. J. J. Morse, two lectures ; Mr.
Harper, of Birmingham, one; Mr. Wallis, of Notting-
j ham, two ; Mr. A. Duguid, of Kirkcaldy, one; Mr.
j Walker, late of Melbourne, three. The Secretary
| to the Association gave six, filling up the intervals
I between the professional speakers. The Committee of
i the Association, in order to carry out the above series,
| thought it advisable to raise a guarantee fund to cover
j at least the rent of the Hall, trusting to the collections
| to defray the lecturers’ fees and advertising; for this
I purpose £22 10s. were required, towards which £18
i have been contributed. With the experience and
| encouragement thus gained, the Association will make
a bolder effort to put Spiritualism before the Glasgow
i public next winter. An inner circle, with Mr. David
j Duguid, as medium, has been formed for the careful
j investigation of the phenomena. It is held every
j Friday at 8 p.m. in the Association’s seance room. At
j a future time, a limited number of Spiritualists will be
j admitted at each sitting.
120
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 5, 1880.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
*9 the late 'Wm.’Gregory, M.D.,F.R.S.E.,.Pro/essor of Chemistry at Edinburgh i) j
"University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll. i \;
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size I c I
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with ; (i
SpirituaUsm.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s, 6d. post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process ! S!
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon- j \ i
taneouslj in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness j (!
—Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes —
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, 4c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—^Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible ot Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—Physiological, Therapeutioal, Ac.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Rinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylio Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c..
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—^Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII s—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Oases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII s—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep-
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—^Perception of Time—Cases : Sir J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmerio Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmmism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo's discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, (< If I (speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message P ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances becanae
no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
mesmei^c influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Maectfi 5, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
iii
Cloth, small 8yo, price 8s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
■women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of tinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting tinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting 'punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pnoisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allkn, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
False lights and dark spots
in Spiritualism, by Christian Beimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O.,
rpEA MEETING AND CONFER-
JL ENCE at G, Field View, London Fields, E., on
Sunday, March 7 th. Tea, 5 o’clock. Tickets, which
must be obtained before date, la each. Conference,
subject for consideration, “ The Promotion of Spiri¬
tualism and the Prevention of Exposures.” 6.30.
Admission Free. 0. R. Williams, Sec.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,|
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id. j Post free
for l£d; or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENGER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
‘‘Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Poet free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: 8. E, Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa¬
tion OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 3 p.m. to 9.30, daily. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all mcluded, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S. C.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris. 
rjiHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.O,
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Post free.
“ RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of ‘‘M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement. *
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Bichmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel -Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treheme) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XL—Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX\—Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” BytheRev.
0. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of‘‘M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesf alien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXTX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XT.-—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Colder.
XT.T-—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XT.TT-—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XIYTy.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.8.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, w.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.’’
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Paet I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Pabt II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIH,
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Fakmeb.
CONTENTS.
Chapteb I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Eaith.
Chapteb H:—Modem Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapteb III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chaptkb IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapteb V:—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapteb VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapteb VIIThe Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Cbapteb VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapteb IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modem Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 124, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, prioe
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOB DISTB1BUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by tne wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to •* drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con¬
sequently irreligious age.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 5, 1880.
1 Accidental Indigestion
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
■ use
END'S FRUITSALT
Erery Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression, .Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Da. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world;”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all unpurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injuiious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means).. Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de la Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. He is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
in the house.”—M. Beral.
END’S FRUIT SALT.— “After suf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ CUCCESS IN LIFE.”—Anewin-
My vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an origmal channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CA XTTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked ‘‘ENO’SFBUIT SALT." Without,you have
been imposed cm by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Trice 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown Svo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE, IMAGININGS.
RV WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The'Morning
Tost, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Sbaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Bon Buckram, Chief ot the College of Howling Der¬
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12 Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Motber-in-Law.—17. Wirbel • bewegung.—18. ‘‘Poor
Old Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30. The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says.—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves me epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIKTY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK- BANK.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
March, 1880. J [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
The present position and future needs of Spiritualism
in England ; M.A. (Oxonl—Kiddle’s Spiritual Com¬
munications—Exposures of Spiritualism; Dr. Nicholls
—Two Views of Spiritualism; M.A. (Oxon)—A Needed
Lesson; Georgina Houghton—Extracts from a Spirit¬
ualist’s diary ; A. M. H. Watts—The last Words of
James Nayler, the Quaker Martyr, 1660—Notes and
Gleanings—Lessons in a School of Life—Victorien
Sardon, the French Dramatist—The Message of Spirit,
nalism to the Criminal—Higher Aspects of Spiritual¬
ism—Poetry—A Psalm of the March Winds; J. T.
Markley.
LONDON: E. W. Auden, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW: Hat Nisbet & Co., 52, Ropework-lane
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. Those poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post freer 7$d.; cloth.
THaci A ■va
npHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
-L SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association of
Spi ritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed bv the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.O.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS,
Beneficent Hauntings    ;   109
An Irish Lourdes       110
Psychography      114
The Apparition of the Virgin Mary in County
Mayo   '. '.....I...    116
Mediums and Materialised Forms. By A. J.
Cranstoun      117
Materialism and Modem Irreverence. By J. T.
Markley    118
Correspondence: —Psychological Phenomena  115
Sunday Meetings     115
Spiritualism in Germany   115
Apparitions and Luminous
Phenomena    ...;.. 116
Paragraphs:—Blood and Fire  114
Spiritualism in Glasgow     119
Clairvoyance applied to Astronomy   119
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
