Registered as A Newspaper.
#lb^st Jl^ixispapr t0nmd^!tr toillj Spintwalbrn m (&xmt §nfaht,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St, Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosquc 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 299.—(VQL. XII.—No. 20.) LONDON : FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1878. ' Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
The Sensations of Mediums during Strong Physical Mani¬
festations ... ... '.      229
The Materialisation of Spirits in America. By Epes
Sargent ... ... ... ... ,J ...      ... 229
The Funeral of Mary Lavallette   281
Dr. Johnson and Spiritualism. By D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M. (Cantab)        232
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Meet¬
ing of the Council...     ... 234
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—In¬
quirers' Seance        234
Variations in the Weight of a Medium during Manifesta¬
tions. By William H. Harrison  235
Some Medical Men at their Work:—The Attempt to Lock
up Mrs. Weldon in a Madhouse 236
Correspondence:—Spiritualism in Liverpool—Materialisa-
- tion and other Seances—Lunacy Law Reform  238
Psychology and Physiology 239
Faith versos Science. (Poetry.) 240
Paragraphs:—Professor Max Mttller’s Lectures, 235; Psy¬
chology in Hackney, 238 ; Warning Dreams, 238; Mr.
J. J. Morse in Manchester, 240; Spiritualism in
Dalston, 240 •; Misrepresentations of Spiritualists, 240 ;
Mrs. Lord's Mediumship  240
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
established in 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ises in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the "Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
VVallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgensteln (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness isHls Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. O. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr.T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain: Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.);. Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C.Luxmoore: Mr. John E Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ;■ Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
he‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.8.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.: Mr. C. Constant
Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury • Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles'(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardsoh. M D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucihes, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-etreet. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should he addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O. •
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office days—Tuesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 2 to 4 p.m.
LESSONS in French and Spanish, or English,
to Foreigners. Translations from the above Languages
also undertaken. Address by letter, VIOLA, care of Mis*
Burk*, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Calendar.
Friday, 17f A—-Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p m.
„ „ Committee’s Stance, at 7.80 p.m. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
Monday, 20<A—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m. Paper by Mr. Desmond G.
Fitz-Gerald, on “The Conservation
of Energy,” accompanied by experi¬
ments.
Wednesday, 22nd.—Inquirers’ Stance at 8 p.m., Mr. Eg¬
linton, medium.
Friday, 247A—-General Purposes Committee, at 5.30p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee's Stance, at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday 28th.—Soirie Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ House and Offices Committee, at 5.30
p m.
„ „ Annual General Meeting op Mem¬
bers, at 6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 29th.—Inquirers’ Stance, at 8 p.m.
Friday, 31sf.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are- open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high-class journals,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientiflo subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one took from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers hive been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained thiough any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may he hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will he
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-street, W.On
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office. 
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-eoad-north, Brixton.
The objeot of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of hooks on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &e., &e., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo,
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
R E C 1 T A T I O N S
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
During April and May, on
Wednesday Afternoons at 3 p.m. (beginning April 10th), and
Saturday EVenings at 8.15 p.m. (beginning April 13th).
N B.—There will be no recitation May 8th.
Tickets may b& had at Mitchell’s library, 33, Old Bond- street;
Hayes's box office; 199, Regent-street; at the Hall ; or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of fourteen recitations, one and a half guineas each. Single
tickets—Stalls, 3s.; chairs, 2s. ; balcony, Is.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal qj Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms td the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W,
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumsiiip of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proof* of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive* Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—TTnity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Revo
lations Made New — Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t&
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London: W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-steeet.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.OJ
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
 FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 88, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l^d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
TAKEN IN EXCHANGE, on the evening
of the Soirte, May 1st, an UMBRELLA, greatly valued <
by the owner. If the same can he returned to 88, Great
Russell-street, it will afford the utmost satisfaction to tho
loser. There will be another in its place,—MRS. Limpus, 41,
Queen-square,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Mat 17, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder , Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, DIdsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cam bridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21,■Green-street, Grosvenor-square, 'W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Bogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaee, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead. W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardenS, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Collej’, Rev. Thos., lateofH.M.S. “Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugli-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Faliyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.'J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Obe.rstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 84. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sheoter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-had, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Rev. W W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen.R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hcnsleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-squaye, AV.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal!, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.AV.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex, Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J .fl. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinek-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Yeh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,CJ.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, AVimille, Boulogne-sur-Mcr.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sireet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
II. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Snear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. 11. Gledstanes;Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery,Esq., 2,Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxel’es.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test,Esq., M.D.,Union Springs, Cayuga Co.,New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le do Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honors, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjee, Hungary.
J. W- Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
MrsJHallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
' Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street. New York,
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
- Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Biyton, Esq., 58, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
 dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Clvief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and ordcj* essential to English Customs. 
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round. -
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine."
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
cfc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion hook to
Poems of the Inner life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OHR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “HeavenOpened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Oolby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Oolby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., <fec. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office. 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in oue
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage’paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £1 IDs.
London : W. H. Harrisok, 88, Gr:at Russell-street. W.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTIbMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Nieeford Fiialete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No, 23.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
SatuMay evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment^ 
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
 S.W.  
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes.  
MRS. C. E. BASSETT,
9, CHOBHAM TERRACE, CHOBHAM ROAD, STRATFORD
. ' LONDON, E.
MR. J. j. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
 Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature. 
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Rapa.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N. 
CURATIVE MESMERISM.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER,
(33 years established),
Attends Patients, and may be consulted at his residence daily
from 2 till 5,
10, BERKELEY GARDENS, CAMPDEN HTT.T. KEN¬
SINGTON,
Private Lessons in the art of Mesmerising. His Pamphlet
on “ Curative Mesmerism,” 7th Edition, price Is.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m,
to 5 p.m, 90, Great Rnssell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O. 
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
Bt EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISE. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Rnssell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.C.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Hee Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
GENTLEWOMAN, living within two
minutes’ walk of the Crystal Palace Grounds, offers a
comfortable quiet Residence with superior Board to a Lady.
Terms moderate. References exchanged. By letter—H. C.,
care of Charles Lewis, Esq., 7, Jasmine-grove, Penge, S.E.
BRIGHTON.—-The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James's-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
IjJiijtqJr tl uf fH ntfo uf jljtttjiludfeffi*
Volume Tweeve. Number Twenty.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 17th, 1878.
~ ^ ~ ^ : rn ^
THE SENSATIONS OF MEDIUMS DURING- STRONG
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
A valuable contribution to psychological science would
be a record of the sensations experienced by all the well-known
Spiritualistic mediums while strong manifestations are going
on, and at times when the mediums are not entranced.
Mr. Williams has told us that at seances, and while he is
not entranced, when the spirits touch any musical instru¬
ment or other object at any part of the room, he knows
what it is, and that although the object may be yards away,
the sensation is much the same as if he had touched it
himself.
Miss Kate Cook has recently written to Mr. Charles
Blackburn about her cabinet seances: “ When Lillie appears,
I am sure I lose weight and get thinner; I also feel as if
I am a long way off. When Lillie moves farther from me,
the feeling of distance increases. The voices of the sitters
sound a long way off from me ; I do not hear them for
some time after they have spoken. Anyone touching me
causes a burning sensation. I never feel any inclination to
talk or move about, and at times I have quite lost my sight.
I never feel any fear that I shall not get all right again;
the only thing I dread is light falling on me. I am always
sufficiently conscious to know that I am Kate Cook, and
that Lillie or other spirits are quite separate from me. I
experience no different sensations when other spirits than
Lillie materialise.”
Mrs. Tappan once told us that while delivering public
trance addresses she is sometimes insensible; at others she
feels as if listening, in a dream, to her platform utterances.
These cases are too few to generalise upon, but, as regards
physical mediumship, a transference of consciousness seems
to a certain extent to accompany the transference of matter
from the body of the medium.
THE MATERIALISATION OF SPIRITS IN AMERICA.
BY EPE8 SARGENT.
I enclose herewith Mr. Luther Colby’s account, from to¬
day’s Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.), of a materialising
seance, at the little town of Rochester, New Hampshire, at
which Mrs. Pickering was the medium. I had been invited
to be one of the party from Boston ; but the state of my
health preventing my risking the journey, I employed a
friend (whose name does not appear in the list of investiga¬
tors present) to go as my substitute, and give his close
attention to the proceedings. This friend is not a Spirit¬
ualist, but a shrewd and careful investigator, and his private
report to me fully confirms Mr. Colby’s description of the
phenomena. The gentlemen whose names are appended in
confirmation of Mr. Colby’s account are known to me as
trustworthy, experienced in investigation, and highly in¬
telligent ; and I know Mrs. Rudd as a lady who would faith¬
fully perform the duty assigned to her of examining the
medium’s clothing.
My friend informs me that after the phenomena were over
he at once entered the cabinet to satisfy himself that there
were no concealed costumes. He examined the one chair,
and found it innocent, and saw that there was no conceivable
opportunity elsewhere for fraud. The manifestations were
so various and decisive, and the costumes so different, that
it seemed an impossibility for the medium to produce them
under the conditions. How far spirits may use her person
for these shows we cannot say. Both Mr. Tice and Mr. E.
Gerry Brown had, at previous sittings, tied the medium very
II effectually, and were both satisfied that, by the exercise of
j merely human power, she could not have left her seat, and
| returned to it without disturbing the tyings. Of one thing
| all visitors, whether sceptics or believers, seem to be assured;
| they admit that there can be no human confederates in the
| production of the phenomena through Mrs. Pickering.
The case looks like a genuine one; but there are good
j Spiritualists who still say, “ No; we are not satisfied yet.”
| I approve their caution; but in spite of all the frauds and
j dubious phenomena that have occurred in other instances
| through other mediums, the most diligent and advanced
j investigators regard the materialisation of the full form as a
I fact that has been placed beyond all question. There is a
j prospect that Mrs. Pickering will come to Boston, and give
| us more convenient opportunities of investigation.
As much has been given in these columns of late regarding
j Mrs. Pickering’s mediumship, pro and con—the evidence
| preponderating in favour of her reliability—and I having been
| assailed from several quarters by those who pronounced her
I a fraud, because I simply gave my opinion that she had not
| been proven such, I determined to visit the medium and
j witness the alleged materialisation of spirits for myself.
| Accordingly, by previous appointment, I visited Rochester
| on the 18th inst., in company with a party from Boston,
j composed of six gentlemen and two ladies, whom I invited
| to be present.
I arrived in the forenoon, and immediately visited Mr.
j Pickering’s residence, being readily allowed by the lady-
| medium to freely examine the ^awe-room, and in fact every
| part of the premises. I went into the cellar, directly under
| the locality of the cabinet, and critically examined the under
| flooring of the room above, to ascertain if trap doors could
| be found (as several of our party were extremely sceptical),
| and ascertained that everything was intact, no indication
| existing of trap doors or machinery of any sort, but every-
| thing being as it ought—“on the square.” We subsequently
| examined the flooring in the stance-room, Mr. Pickering
j ripping up the carpet for that purpose under where the
| medium was to sit. In fact the examination of the premises
I was conclusive, clearly proving the published statements of
| others in this respect to be correct.
The cabinet from which the materialised spirits were to
| emanate was simply formed of two curtains in a corner of
j the room, suspended from an iron rod a fraction over three
j feet in length, extending from one wall to the other. The
j ladies of our party were delegated, previous to the stance,
j to critically examine the medium’s clothing in order to be
I sure that no costumes were therein hidden, after which pre-
j liminary the lady was escorted by them to the cabinet,
j Their report was that they had thoroughly examined Mrs.
| Pickering, that, her clothing was of dark colour (not a
I particle of white cloth entering into the sum total of her
i apparel), and that there was not the least opportunity for
| the concealment of costumes.
The front line of chairs was occupied by ladies and gentle-
i men not of our company; the second row by our own party.
| At eight o’clock precisely the light was lowered, when sing-
| ing and piano playing were in order. After waiting some
| twenty minutes, the medium in the meantime remaining
! seated in the cabinet, a spirit form became visible—a tall
I1 (| female, dressed like a sister of charity, the entire figure being
I draped in what appeared to be thin white muslin, of coarser
1 texture than afterwards appeared. It was very statuesque
I and impressive. This form appeared twice.
The next was the figure of a man. The clothing was
1 mostly dark coloured. This form bowed to Mr. William R.
230
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 17, 1878.
Tice (a gentleman from Brooklyn, N.Y.), who was present,
and was finally acknowledged by him as a friend, after
appearing three times, Mr. Tice failing at first to recognise him.
The third spirit-form that appeared was recognised by
Mrs. Jennie S. Rudd as her mother, and gave the name of
“ Rosina,” which Mrs. R. said was correct. This figure had
on a muslin dress, the material looking finer than the
drapery which enveloped the first spirit who came. A lace
scarf could be distinctly seen upon the shoulders, hanging
down nearly to the floor. Her hair was brown; the dress
trailed; a handkerchief was held in the left hand ; a silver
star glistened upon her forehead. She seemed anxious to
approach as near as possible to Mrs. Rudd and Dr. Good¬
rich, in order to be recognised, bowing her head while
uttering the word 11 Rosina.” We have since learned that
this spirit had promised to manifest to the daughter on the
first opportunity offered, when the parties named above
should both be present at a materialising seance.
The fourth form which appeared was that of a female
clad in white, but without drapery about the waist, except
a profusion of lace, taking the form of a cloud, in which
the spirit seemed to be floating.
The fifth form was that of a small-sized female—“Nellie,”
a spirit-friend of ours, who kissed her hand to us. She had
on a lace dress, and spangles were distinctly seen in her
hair. She also saluted Mrs. Rudd and Dr. Goodrich.
The next spirit form which appeared was that of a female
clad in a snowy-white garment of apparently the most
delicate fabric—so fine, indeed, as to cause universal remark
in regard to it. The drapery, which was thrown over the
back of the head and shoulders and arms, resembled the
most exquisite lace. She came towards us and Miss Chace,
and endeavoured to get us to recognise her; but we could not
distinguish the features. The spirit then retreated behind
the curtain. In a few minutes, however, she reappeared,
seemingly with more power, and glided nearer to us than
before. We said, “ Can you give us your name?” “ Yes,
yes,” was the response in a low whisper, “ Fanny.” “ Is it
indeed you, Fanny Conant ?” we asked. At that moment
a satisfied expression passed over the countenance of the
spirit as she came nearer, and it appeared so like our late
medium that we could not gainsay the fact, especially when
we examined the black hair, so smoothly combed, as was her
wont in the earth-life, it being a perfect facsimile. She
then pointed towards us with her right hand, and speedily
retreated behind the curtain. The reason given by spirit j
friends why the garments appeared so white and well defined, j
was because of her superior mediumistic development while
in her own earthly form. The last time this spirit made her |
appearance a beautiful white turban was on her head. As |
she bent forward to let us recognise her, we could not but j
admire the exquisitely delicate fabric which covered her I
person.
The form of a man with dark hair and dark moustache and j
full face was then seen. This spirit was not recognised. He |
was stout and tall.
The next spirit who manifested was a curious-looking j
person. Her hair seemed to be of a reddish cast, wound |
around her head in a singular style, “ something like a bee- j
hive,” remarked one of the party. There was a mass of it.
A slight head-dress was worn on the back of the head. The j
garments enveloping this individual were less airy and not so
white and much more material than were those previously
seen. The figure was full and well developed.
Here followed a female spirit draped in lace—a very lively
character—who danced around with great freedom for a few
moments. The significant motions of the arms were by some
present construed to mean that she came to all present—to
no one in particular. She was not recognised. The main
outlines of the form could readily be traced through the
drapery.
Spirit faces were visible at the aperture, sometimes two
at the same time.
The tenth spirit who manifested very much interested
our party. She was tastefully dressed in white. When the
lady at the piano sang, “Nearer, my God, to Thee,” this
spirit took part, singing beautifully, and seemed to enjoy
the occasion very much. She remained longer in view than
any other spirit. Retreating to the enclosure to gather 1
strength, she again appeared and sang with the pianiste as
before. This was a beautiful manifestation.
The eleventh spirit who paid us a visit had light hair,
moustache and chin whiskers, a bandage appearing around
the forehead. This figure, we were informed, resembled a
particular friend of one of the party, although he did not
come near enough to be fully recognised.
The twelfth was that of a tall, swarthy-looking Indian,
who seemed to almost reach the ceiling; he had a waving
plume on his head, and wore a large belt around his waist,
fastened by a huge glittering breast-plate. He was a fine
specimen of the red man, dressed as he was from head to
foot in the characteristic costume of the North American
Indian. Another Indian also presented himself for a brief
period. Also a girl was seen, who appeared to be a cripple—
unrecognised. But the cleverest manifestation was that of
a youth, dressed in a uniform similar to that belonging to a
base-ball club—greyish pants, tightly buttoned round the
waist, where the loose white shirt that enveloped the upper
portion of his form was gathered. His name was called by
some one, but we could ascertain nothing definite in regard
to this spirit more than that he was a great adept in kicking
the foot-ball when in physical life.
The baby‘scene was quite satisfactory. The curtains
opened, and there sat the medium with a tiny infant,
dressed in pure white, in her arms. We could see the
face and hands plainly, especially the motions.of its fingers
We were told, after the seance, that this was a child of Mrs.
Pickering’s now in spirit-life, which accounted for the oft-
repeated caresses she bestowed upon it.
After this manifestation, Mr. Pickering placed a slate on
the floor in front of the curtain for the spirits to write upon.
The movements of the pencil could be distinctly heard, and
we found, after the seance was over, written upon it: “ We
will yet convince the world through this medium that
Spiritualism is true.”
The male figures wore white shirts, the sleeves gathered
at the wrists. The female figures sometimes came out with
bare arms, which were clearly visible through the gauzy
drapery that covered them.
The figures many of them were larger and taller than the
form of the medium, which satisfied us that the lady took no
active part in the wonderful exhibition presented to as
critical a company as ever met together on such an occasion.
Consequently we shall say that we have no doubt whatever
of the entire reliability of the medium on the occasion thus
briefly described. As Mr. Wetherbee was one of our party,
and had previously sat with Mrs. Pickering when the con¬
ditions were less favourable, we asked him what he thought
in regard to the manifestations on the 18th. His reply was,
“ I think they are what they claim to be—spirits taking on
apparent human forms, or materialising over their invisible
bodies; that it was an honest show from the spirit-world
there is no doubt.”
There was no opportunity of the medium supplementing
her clothing after the examination, as one or the other of
the ladies of our party never left her for a moment to herself,
so as to be doubly sure on that point. We thus can state
with the most positive certainty that as the curtains dropped,
hiding the medium from sight, the enclosure was proof
against any confederacy of whatever name or nature, and
that there was not a particle of white fabric therein, and
nothing of the kind could get in, as the gaze of our party
was constantly centred on the curtain-cabinet, and it was
light enough in the room to fully recognise each other; and
that, therefore, whatever came out of the enclosure during
the three hours that the stance continued, in the shape of
apparitions, must have been produced or materialised by
spirit-chemistry, which we have not the least doubt was the
fact in the instance under consideration.
We the undersigned, members of the party of investigators
above-mentioned, take pleasure in giving our personal en¬
dorsement to the statements made in the report to which
this certificate is subjoined. The account narrates in brief
the salient points in our experience while at the stance held
with Mrs. John R. Pickering in Rochester, N.H., on Thurs¬
day evening, April 18th, and we feel confident that what
there transpired was genuine in character, and owed its
May 17, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
281
origin entirely to the source claimed for it, viz., the power of
spirit over matter.
John Wetherbbe,
Phineas E. Gay,
Isaac B. Rich,
E. P. Goodrich, M.D.,
George A. Bacon,
Mrs. Jennie S. Rudd,
Miss Emily Chace.
Boston, April 23rd, 1878.
[By invitation, Mr. William R. Tice, of Brooklyn, N.Y.,
joined our party at Rochester, witnessed the manifestations,
and pronounced them genuine without the least reservation.
—Ed. B. of L.]
THE FUNERAL OF MARY LAYALLETTE.
(From fj The Banner of Light f April 27.)
In the city of Philadelphia and its neighbourhood, and
wherever, as here, the Quakers have been long and well-
known, the ideas and practices of Spiritualists give less
cause for comment or curious notice. Especially is this true
in regard to the informal manner of celebrating funeral rites
which has been made familiar by Quaker custom. That any
mortal should have the impiety to coolly reject the offices of
churches and priests, should presume to bury without the
fixed ceremonies of some sect, seems to some a sort of
sacrilege.
There is much that is beautiful and fitting in the funeral
ceremonies of the Church. The various u forms of sound
words ” embody some sublime and helpful teaching; still,
in the spontaneous observances of the Quaker there is much
that is profitable or profoundly touching; while the manners
and expressions of Spiritualists upon such occasions, modified
by our own tenets and character, are unique, educational,
consolatory, and interesting.
This was most apparent at the recent' obsequies of Miss
Mary Lavallette, of this city, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Alfred Lavallette, and the grand-daughter of the distinguished
American Rear-Admiral of that name. Miss Lavallette has
been a sufferer for the last nine months from rapid pulmonary
consumption, and died quietly on the 23rd of February last.
The funeral was held at the residence of her parents, corner
of Camac and Berks streets, on Wednesday, the 27th of that
month. Several causes drew together a numerous and varied
company. The young lady who had passed on was but about
twenty years of age, and is said to have been a person of
singular goodness of character, tenderness of heart, and great
intellectual promise. The social position of the family, their
historic name, and, besides, their well-known Spiritualism,
added to the influences which crowded the house with con¬
doling friends. Among the family mourners, more than four
times as old as the darling she had lost, was the venerable
widow of the late Rear-Admiral Lavallette.
The body was laid in a pure white casket, with a
rich and redundant robe trailing over the bier, elegantly
trimmed with dainty white flowers and superb calla lilies.
There were also many and beautiful flowers in expressive
emblematic designs, with appropriate mottoes upon some of
them. One in particular attracted attention by its artistic
arrangement of the suggestive words “ At Rest ” in blue
violets, on a cushion of white rosebuds and other snowy
flowers. The parlour where the casket was placed was
lighted by gas, which enhanced the remarkable loveliness
of the arrangements, and tjie whole that love, taste, and
care could do was done to make pleasant the last view of
the mortal. But neither drapery, accessories, nor flowers
could hide the fact of mortality, or shed any light which
did not reveal the record of intense and long-continued
suffering upon the face of the youthful dead. It is only
“ that light which was never on land or sea ” which can
illuminate the portals of the tomb, and they whose affec¬
tions cling to the body in death must prepare for breaking
hearts in this dying world.
Not so Spiritualists. Our great point of faith is the
dogma of a demonstrated immortality; we acknowledge
no death, not even by use of the word. The change from
the mortal, Spiritualists regard but as an incident in an
immortal existence; and hence our philosophy. Moreover, the
I! grave is not a complete separation of those united in
B love and sympathy. “ Messages,” “ communications,” a
I hundred methods of correspondence unite the seen and un-
| seen worlds.
It is not an idle or improper curiosity that inquires how
I people having such ideas conduct themselves in view of the
| stupendous and solemn affair of death among them; and it
| seems fitting to state in all candour the things which present
I themselves to an unprejudiced observer at a Spiritualist
! funeral. The first and most noticeable feature of the occa-
| sion of which we write was the profoundly quiet bearing
| of all concerned. The evidence of grief was plain enough,
| but there was none of that overpowering external mani-
I festation of heart-rending woe often painfully noticed even
I among nominal Christians. The sentiment of cheering hope
| and unfaltering trust was remarkable in the manner of those
| who so sincerely mourned, as in all that was said or done at
j the time.
Aside from the excellent arrangements of the undertakers,
I there seemed to be but little that was fixed or formal in the
| funeral proceedings. Upon the request of a friend of the
I family, Professor E. S. Wheeler, a well-known Spiritualist
| lecturer of great ability, officiated.
Prefacing with a few words of condolence, the speaker
! declared death a common thing in human history and the
| order of nature. Referring to the number and variety of
! persons who had gathered there, he said love and sym-
| pathy held them in the ties of human feeling, in view of a
! fact common to all—the fate of death. A recognition of
| the Fatherhood of God, the brotherhood of man, and, as
j deducible therefrom, belief in the fact of immortal life, were
announced as the triune basis of the universal religion; and
I to that, without disrespect to any sect or dogma, appeal was
| made to sanction the emotions of the time, and make im-
| pressive the lesson of the event. As expressive of a faith he
i said Spiritualism had demonstrated, Mr. Wheeler read an
| extract of considerable length, asserting and explaining the
i nature and immortal destiny of the human soul in strong
j but unusual terms; his quotation, he informed his hearers,
I was from the dialogue of Krishna and Arjoun, as related in
J the Bhagamd Gita of the Hindoos—one of the oldest of books.
It seemed strange to listen to the words of a u heathen ”
! writer, falling after all these ages from the lips of a man
who had evidently received more than the usual Christian
| education and training, in such an assembly, upon such an
I occasion! Yet there was no shock, no seeming sense of
| impropriety; the manner was reverential and sincere, and
|. the expressions those of deepest religious conviction, such
! as are accepted by all who acknowledge any form of faith of
| which God and immortality are a part. After a few really
| eloquent and affecting paragraphs from the quotation as a
j text, in its applications to present circumstances, the speaker
| closed by reading the following poem from Mrs. H. Beecher
| Stowe, of the New England Congregational Church, on the
! “ Spirit World —
It lies around us like a cloud,
• A world we do not see;
Yet the sweet closing of an eye
May bring us there to be.
Its gentle breezes fan our cheek,
Amid our worldly care ;
Its gentle voices whisper love,
And mingle with our prayer.
Sweet hearts around us throb and teat,
Sweet helping hands are stirred,
And palpitates the veil between,
With breathings almost heard!
And in the hush of rest they bring,
’Tis easy, now, to see
How lovely and how sweet a pass
The hour of death must be I
To close the eye and close the ear,
Wrapt in a trance of bliss,
And gently drawn by loving arms,
To swoon to that—from this.
At the conclusion of the first address Mrs. Martin, in
trance, offered an invocation in verse, in the Scotch dialect.
The rapt and sibyl-like manner of the poetess gave great
impressiveness to the exquisite natural sentiment of the
composition and the deep pathos of devotion which intensely
characterised the whole. At the close many a tear-filled
232
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 17, 1878,
eye, unused to weep, attested the softening power of a tender j
woman’s voice in blended poesy and prayer.
Dr. H. T. Child and Mrs. Katie B. Robinson expressed f
sentiments fitting the occasion. Mrs. Mary Holeian sang |
in a beautiful and touching manner, between each address, j
appropriate selections from the Spiritual Harp. The services j
closed at the house by the singing of the hymn,“ Nearer, |
My God, to Thee.”
The burial was in the famous Laurel Hill Cemetery, in a j
most lovely spot, just to the west of the Lavallette monu- {!
ment. The afternoon sun of earliest spring shone upon the I
friends assembled and filled all the open grave with a flood |
of golden light. A large number had followed the pro¬
cession, and as they gathered around the bier Mr. Wheeler
again spoke. He said they came to bury the body only,
there and then; the spirit was resurrected already. Dearly
as they loved the casket which had held the jewel of the i
soul, no breaking hearts went down into the sepulchre. !
Referring to the youth of the deceased, Mr. Wheeler re- j
marked she had at least lived long enough to learn to know i
God, to love the truth, and practice goodness to her kind— |
the three essential things, said the orator. The speaker |
gave to all assembled the last words of her who had left j
them for a time: “Give my love to all,” and claimed |
universal love to be the lesson of life, the test of a divine j
state. To God, the angels, and immortal progress he com- |
mended the spirit gone out from the body, but present then j
and there, as God was omnipresent and manifest in all His j
Providence.
Mrs. Katie Robinson then spoke again, sympathetically j
and in appropriate terms, offering the consolations of her j
faith to those who wept aloud, after all, at the final separa- [
tion from the body of their child, sister, or friend ; she re- I
-peated the promise she had made in her first address, of a j
speedy communication with her who had only gone before, j
and of a final happy reunion in the land eternal, beyond all j
death. Then Mr. Wheeler thanked the attendants for their j
sympathy and kind offices. A few flowers were selected j
from those crowning the casket, and as the low descending i
sun sank toward the horizon beyond the lovely Schuylkill j
valley, the long cortege withdrew from the monumental j
acres of populous Laurel Hill. The evening came on apace, j
and the Spiritualist funeral was over. To many it gave |
consolation, to all instruction ; offence was possible only to j
the narrow bigot or the sectarian, who worship tradition and
form more than the living truth.
J. H. Rhodes, M.D.
Philadelphia.
DR. JOHNSON AND SPIRITUALISM.
BY D. H. WILSON, M.A., LL.M. (CANTAB).
Ir is pleasing to believe that had the movement of modern
Spiritualism been established in the days of Samuel Johnson
it would have had the sympathies of that remarkable man.
He was ever ready to attack with pen and voice the enemies
of Spiritual belief-materialism, and infidelity. So repug¬
nant to him were those negative systems, as undervaluing
the nature and dignity of our higher parts, that he made no
allowance even for those who arrived at their materialistic
notions at the end of a journey taken seriously in search of |
truth. He believed in an invisible world about us into |
which man passes through the gate of death. Few men, j
from d priori reasoning, have had this belief more vividly |'
and constantly. Yet the question whether or not man sur- j
vives death he perceived to be of such profound importance |
that he held that search should be made in every field of j!
inquiry for evidence to settle it beyond dispute or doubt, j
He had by heart all that the Bible says on the subject: he |
knew all that the inner voice has to say; but whether for I!
himself or for others less impressed by such testimony, he V
felt that further evidence of the existence of spirits and of a |
life to come would be very acceptable.
When staying with the Rev. Dr. Adams, Master of Pem- j
broke College, Oxford, in 1784, mention was made of Lord [
Lyttelton’s vision. Said Johnson—“ It is the most extra- ,j
ordinary thing that has happened in my day; I heard it j;
with my own ears from his uncle, Lord Westcote. I am so 1
g’ad to have every evidence of the spiritual world that I ‘
j am willing to believe it.” Dr. Adams—“You have evi-
| dence enough; good evidence, which needs not such sup-
j port.” Johnson—“I like to have more.”—(Boswell.) On
Spiritualistic subjects Johnson has, of course, been charged
1 with credulity. “ He would believe anything, for he believed
in the Cock-lane ghost.” But it is not true that he believed
in the Cock-lane ghost. He went to the house where the raps
and other noises were said to occur, in company with some
| other gentlemen, and afterwards published an account of
| this visit in the GentlemarCs Magazine and elsewhere,
wherein he stated his opinion that the ghost story was an
imposture. That the public were as ready then as they are
now to condemn not only believers of occult phenomena, but
I inquirers thereinto, is shown by Churchill’s poem of “ The
| Ghost,” wherein Johnson is caricatured in the person of
| Pomposo.
Speaking of John Wesley’s account of a ghost, Johnson
said: “ He believes it, but not on sufficient authority. He
j did not take time to examine the girl. It was at Newcastle
j where the ghost was said to have appeared to a young woman
j several times, mentioning something about the right to an
j old house, advising application to be made to an attorney,
| which was done, and at the same time saying the attorney
would do nothing, which proved to be the fact. ‘ This,’ says
j John (Wesley), ‘ is a proof that a ghost knows our thoughts.’
i Now (laughing) it is not necessary to know our thoughts to
! tell that an attorney will sometimes do nothing. Charles
Wesley, who is a more stationary man, does not believe the
story. I am sorry that John did not take more pains to
inquire into the evidence for it.’ Miss Seward (the poetess
of Lichfield), with an incredulous smile, 1 What, sir, about
a ghost?' ‘Yes, madam,’ replied Johnson, with solemn
vehemence, ‘this is a question which, after five thousand
years, is yet undecided—a question, whether in theology or
philosophy, one of the most important that can come before
the human understanding.’ (Boswell.)
From these words alone no one can misunderstand John¬
son’s mind on the subject. A well-authenticated ghost
story is a contribution to religion and science—to the science
of religion and to the knowledge of man’s nature.
Ghost stories are as old as tradition; but we must not
believe in them upon insufficient evidence. Johnson said—
“ A man who thinks he has seen an apparition can only be
convinced himself; his authority will not convince another;
and his conviction, if rational, must be founded on being told
something which cannot be known but by supernatural
means. ’ ’—(Boswell.)
When he said, “ All argument is against it ” (the reality
of apparitions), he expressed his own scepticism upon
phenomenal Spiritualism; and when, at the same time, he
said, “ But all belief is for it,” he showed no credulity, but
merely indicated a tendency very prevalent to ignorantly
believe in occult things.
Credulity is not properly referable to innate feelings or
to conditional prepossessions, but to readiness of belief upon
insufficient evidence. And to this readiness Johnson—at
any rate upon the matter of ghosts or phenomenal Spirit¬
ualism—has been unfairly accused. Of course prepossessions
endanger the prospect of forming logical judgments. They
tend to make us credulous in those directions towards which
they lean; but it does not follow that they must blind us.
In a mind of strong reasoning and analytical powers like
Johnson’s, an inclination to believe before examination has
no more influence upon the judgment than an hypothesis.
We form hypotheses to serve as tests in an inquiry, and to
guide us in selecting methods ; and when we find ourselves
compelled to reject one hypothesis, we frame another. That
hypotheses have given the mind a twist is true only when
they have been held in spite of facts which show them to
be false or inadequate. Perhaps no inquiry affords more
striking examples of the submission of prepossessions to
facts than that in the Spiritualistic phenomena. There are
a few persons, it is true, who are obstinately tenacious of
hypotheses which have been long riddled and undermined
by facts in their own experience. But the majority of those
who declare that our phenomena have not shaken their
belief in the theories of imposture and delusion have never
| inquired properly into them. We heaT from our opponents a
great deal too much of the prepossessions of Spiritualists. It
Mat 17, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
233
is alleged that investigators of our phenomena “ give in ” to
the spiritual hypothesis because they commence their in¬
quiries with a leaning to our theory; and it is said that no
real materialist was ever converted to Spiritualism. But
unless we take into consideration the force of the reason,
and of discrimination, it is merely asserting a truism to say
that only those inclined to the spiritual theory are con¬
vinced of its truth by the phenomena; and that no mate¬
rialist can be convinced. Prepossessions, through leading
in opposite directions, would go the same lengths if un¬
influenced by observation and reflection. If it be true that
previous inclination merely turns inquirers into full-blown
Spiritualists, it is equally true that previous disinclination
merely disqualifies them as impartial or scientific in¬
vestigators.
It is true that no one has embraced Spiritualism who
was not previously inclined to it, but only in the sense that
no one has become a musician, poet, writer, or chemist
without innate tastes or aptitudes for music, poetry, litera¬
ture or chemistry. Dr. Johnson has been ridiculed for his
love of the mysterious, as though a great man should turn
his back on mysteries! Mysterious is as relative a term as
knowledge. We only know a thing as it appears to us
individually; and that only is mysterious to us of which
we are ignorant. To the young child there is so much mystery
in all things that he is not astonished by a conjuring triek; and
adult brains of small calibre, from a long and certain kind of
familiarity with subjects beyond their grasp, believe that
those subjects are mere shadows. The perception is reserved
for individuals of better parts that all shadow implies sub¬
stance, and that there is only a line between the shade and
the light. If there be beauty in common places, it is not
the little mind who will discover it, nor is it the little mind
who can rejuvenate stale facts.
It is not surprising to us, who know that the phenomena
of Spiritualism are true, that the great mind of Johnson
should have interested itself in occult subjects—mysterious
because occult, and occult because only partially appre¬
hended—in the desire to find, Alexander-like, a world to
conquer, a new field of thought wherein to employ its
gigantic powers.
But that he was not credulous may be perceived by the
unprejudiced from the following extracts :—
“ He censured Lord Kaimes’ Sketches of the History of
Man for misrepresenting Clarendon’s account of the appear¬
ance of Sir George Villiers’ ghost, as if Clarendon were
weakly credulous, when the truth is that Clarendon only says
that the story was upon a better foundation of credit than
usually such discourses are founded upon; nay, speaks thus
of the person who was reported to have seen the vision,
1 The poor man if he had been at all waking] which Lord
Kaimes has omitted.”—{Boswell.)
That Dr. Johnson held many Spiritualistic notions with
regard to the world of spirits, and to the* influence of spirits
upon men, may be seen from much of his conversation and
from his writings—notably the Prayers and Meditations.
Speaking of a deceased lady, he says in a letter to Mr.
James Elphinstone:—
“ Neither reason nor revelation denies you to hope that
you may increase her happiness by obeying her precepts,
and that she may in her present state look with pleasure
upon every act of virtue to which her instructions or example
have contributed. Whether this be more than a pleasing
dream, ora just opinion of separate spirits, is, indeed, of no
great importance to us, when we consider ourselves as acting
under the eye of God : yet surely there is something pleasing
in the belief that our separation from those whom we love
is merely corporeal; and it may be a great incitement to vir¬
tuous friendship if it can be made probable that that union
which has received the divine approbation shall continue to
eternity.” Again, in a letter to Mrs. Thrale, he speaks of
his deceased friend “Lawrence,” “who,” he says, “now
perhaps overlooks me as I am writing, and rejoices that I
have what he wanted.”
Those who pray for the living but not for the dead must
have a low conception of prayer. Indeed, where people
repeat the same prayer half a dozen times in an hour, and
beg to be spared every ill, and to be endowed with every
blessing under the sun, without regard to either laws or
ij justice, it is not surprising that there should be little
II thought of the spiritual requirements of departed souls; for
| by those who thus pray, physical evils are so greatly feared,
j and the value of wordly success is so magnified, that they
| may suppose that our prayers cannot benefit the condition of
| disembodied spirits, who are removed from the misfortunes
(I of the one and the advantages of the other. Upon the loss
> | of his wife Johnson prayed—
l “0 Lord, so far as it may be lawful in me, I commend to
| thy Fatherly goodness the soul of my departed wife, be-
f ’seeching Thee to grant her whatever is best in her present
| state, and finally to receive her to eternal happiness.”—
| {Prayers and Meditations.)
| Speaking of purgatory as believed by Roman Catholics,
| Johnson said:—
| “ Why, sir, it is a very harmless doctrine. They are of
| opinion that the generality of mankind are neither so
I obstinately wicked as to deserve everlasting punishment, nor
| so good as to merit being admitted into the society of blessed
| spirits, and therefore that God is graciously pleased to allow
| of a middle state where they may be purified by certain
! degrees of suffering. You see, sir, there is nothing un-
| reasonable in this.” Boswell: “ But then, sir, their masses
I for the dead ?” Johnson: “ Why sir, if it be once established
I that there are souls in purgatory, it is as proper to pray for
I them, as for our brethren of mankind who are yet in this
life.”—'■{Boswell).
| The following beautiful prayer shows that Dr. Johnson
| was at heart a thorough Spiritualist.
“0 Lord! Governor of heaven and earth, in whose
hands are embodied and departed spirits, if thou hast
ordained the souls of the dead to minister to the living, and
appointed my departed wife to have care of me, grant that I
may enjoy the good effects of her attention and ministration,
whether exercised by appearance, impulses, dreams, or any
other manner agreeable to thy government.”-—{Prayers and
Meditations.)
The absurd objection to the spiritual theory, namely, that
it would be punishment to a happy spirit to return to earth,
j and a respite to a spirit in a state of misery, Johnson
| disposes of thus:—
) “ Why, sir, as the happiness or misery of disembodied
| spirits does not depend upon place, but is intellectual, we
j | cannot say that they are less happy or less miserable by
j j appearing upon earth.”—{Boswell.) t
|( “The happiness of a disembodied spirit will consist in a
j j consciousness of the favour of God, in the contemplation of
! j truth, and in the possession of felicitating ideas.” “ I do not
I | imagine that all things will be made clear to us immediately
| I after death, but that the ways of Providence will be ex-
j I plained to us very gradually.”—{Boswell.)
j j Johnson had such a horror of the doctrine of annihilation,
| | that he said it was preferable to exist even in pain than not
j j exist. Eternal punishment then, even if true, was not in
| | his opinion the worst thing that could happen to a man.
| | The doctrine of eternal punishment as taught by the
||| Churches is so revolting to the enlightened conception
||| of Divine Love, that one is apt, in turning as far as
| | possible from it, to drift into a loose way of re-
] | garding the condition of disembodied spirits, and to
| | lose sight of a grand principle. It is so true that people
I I adapt themselves to the worst circumstances : that the most
| | unfortunate beings are not so miserable as they appear to
j 11 those who do not know them ; so true that we have in us an
j I irresistible force which “makes for” happiness—that, by
| (| frequent intercourse and much familiarity with what we call
I j | low spirits (what the Church calls devils), we are apt to
| > | regard their condition too favourably; we are apt to believe
III that the causes of their unhappiness are rather sentimental
ijj than real. “So-and-so is an undeveloped spirit,” we may
| | think. “He has attacks of spiritual rheumatics, but be¬
lli tween whiles he is full of fun, and is very good company.
| | His rheumatics are probably due to a vivid imagination
111 inflamed by the terrifying dogmas of theological alarmists ;
111 and much of his complaint may be attributed to a constitu-
| j | tional tendency to grumble.” It is too much to hope that
j j j amongst Spiritualists there are no bad people, and yet,
Ijj perhaps, few amongst the worst of us fear death at all.
ill That this careless neglect of regarding the painful conse-
234
THE SPIRITUALIST.
quences in the future, of irregular living in the present, j
must enervate the higher faculties, and give license to the j
play of the lower nature, is a moral axiom. But there is a i
preventive of this indifferentism. It is the perception of I
the principle which the doctrine of eternal punishment in a j
refined sense teaches, namely, that there will always be !
punishment for those who break laws, or who violate !
principles. If a man cut off his hand, or poison his body, |
or if he stand still in one position too long he will suffer. I
So if he part with his honour, or bring himself to associate j
with his inferiors, or if he content himself with stationari- j
ness in knowledge and wisdom, he will suffer. The purest and j
most exalted finite beings are yet learners—liable to stumble j
and fall, and therefore, also, to be bruised and wounded, j
They cannot escape the baneful consequences of their acts, if j
those acts are out of the upward straight line. As there is no ;
royal road to learning, there is no royal protection from the j
penalties of ignorance. Those, however, who err from lack j
of judgment only, have the consolation of knowing that j
for them there is a short cut back to the straight line. I
Dr. Johnson said—“ We do not know that even the angels !
are quite in a state of security; nay, we know that some of i
them have fallen. It may, therefore, perhaps be necessary, j
in order to preserve both men and angels in rectitude, that |
they should have continually before them the punishment of
those who have deviated from itand, he adds, in reference j
to the common doctrine of eternal punishment, “ but we j
may hope that by some other means a fall from rectitude may j;
be prevented. Some of the texts of Scripture upon this j1
subject are indeed strong; but they may admit of a miti- j j
gated interpretation.” — {Boswell.) Thus spake, to his | j
honour, the great representative of Orthodoxy and Toryism, j
The following admonition of Johnson to his friend I
Boswell may, perhaps, be words in season to some of the j
inexperienced amongst us, who are apt to trust too much to !
the counsel of ft Spirit guides ” and familiar spirits, and I
thus to place too little reliance upon individual judgment j
and personal effort. i
“ Do not, sir, accustom yourself to trust to impressions, j |
By trusting to impressions a man may gradually come to | j
yield to them, and at length be subject to them so as not to !
be a free agent. A man who is in that state should not be i)
suffered to live; if he declares he cannot help acting in a |
particular way and is irresistibly impelled, there can be no j
confidence in him, no more than in a tiger.” j
Let those who regard Spiritualists as only half-honest or |
half-witted be informed that the great Johnson was a j
Spiritualist. It is true that in sects of the most opposite |)
tenets great men may be found. There are great men |
Trinitarians, and great men Unitarians; great Protestants j
and great Catholics; I say that, therefore, the fact merely of I
a particular doctrine being embraced by remarkable intellects I
is not proof of its truth. But when a great man goes out j
of his early grooves of thought to embrace unpopular doc- I
trines, in spite of the ridicule and obloquy cast at him for so j
doing, it is also true that such doctrines, so courted and won, |
become consecrated with a claim to the respect and serious j
consideration of every grade of mind. |
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF !
SPIRITUALISTS. |
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL. i (
Last Tuesday night, at the usual monthly meeting of the Council of j)
the British National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell- j (
street, London, Mr. Alexander Calder, president, occupied the chair. ! \
The other members present were Mr. Morell Theobald, Dr. George j)
Wyld, Mrs. FitzGerald, Mr. and Mrs. Desmond FitzGerald, Mrs. Louisa j (
Lowe, the Rev. W. W« Newbould, M.A., Mrs. Maltby, the Rev. W. i s
Stainton-Moses, M.A., Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. T. H. Edmands, Miss | )
Withall, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. Glendinning, Mr. j)
C. Pearson, Miss Houghton, Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E. I \
The minutes of the last meeting were read, also the following “ rider ” j >
added to the end of them: “ Mr. Dawson Rogers asked whether the i)
name of the new publication was definitely fixed as ‘ Paper of Proceed- i s
ings, &c.,’ and it was decided by general consent to leave this in the I)
hands of the revising committee, who had been appointed to assist the j (
secretary.” is
The minutes and rider to them were unanimously confirmed. i)
Mr. Morell Theobald read the report of the Finance Committee, it
which set forth that the Association had a balance in hand of j)
£129 10s. lid. ; it recommended payments to the extent of £55, and j)
estimated that the outstanding liabilities of the Association amounted | (
to <£5. - '
May 17, 1878.
The suggested Annual Report of the Association was then circulated
in type, and taken as read.
Mrs. Lowe moved that a few words be inserted expressing the
opinion that Spiritualists in private life were liable to a certain amount
of persecution under the lunacy laws.
Mr. Stainton-Moses seconded this, and after a few brief speeches
about Mrs. Weldon’s case, in which it was remarked that the matter was
external to the Association, and that no official information about it
was before the Council, the insertion of the words was agreed to.
Mr. Stainton-Moses made a brief report on the part of the General
Purposes Committee.
Mr. Glendinning moved that the Council highly approved the
printed Proceedings in the new form in which the committee had
issued the monthly agenda. This was seconded by Mr. Edmands, and
carried unanimously,
After the passing of the report of the S&ance Committee, and of the
House and Offices Committee,
The report of the Library Committee was read by the secretary as
follows:—Mr. La Roy Sunderland, of Quincy, Mass., had offered to
present the Association with some files of early Spiritual periodicals,
the Spirit World and the Spirit Messenger. The offer had been
accepted with thanks, and Mr. Sunderland was requested to send the
parcel to Messrs. Colby and Rich, of Boston, for transmission with their
next box of books to London. The following additions had been made
to the Lending Library, viz.:—Two copies of ‘ M.A. (Oxon’s) ’
Psychography, a copy of Denton’s Soul of Things (three vols.), and M. P.’s
Evidences, presented by Mr. F. W. Percival. A copy of Esdaile’s
Mesmerism in India had been added to the General Library, and three
numbers of the Biological Review had been presented by Mr. F. W.
Percival. The photographs of the moulds and casts taken in Paris,
and presented to the Association by the Comte de Bullet and M. Levof,
had been substantially mounted and framed, and were now hanging in
the reading room. Two volumes of pamphlets had been bound under
the title of Tracts, and the remainder had been classified, numbered,
and arranged in six octavo-sized pamphlet cases. The five volumes of
Allan Kardec’s works had been bound, and it had been resolved to sub¬
scribe for M. Pierart’s new journal Le Benedictin de St. Maur. It had
also been resolved to purchase an album for preserving various photo¬
graphs in possession of the Association.”
A cordial vote of thanks was passed by the Council for the gifts.
The report of the Soiree Committee was adopted.
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald announced that the Research Committee
had made important progress, as reported in The Spiritualist, and would
give in a report when its experiments were concluded. Mr. Charles
Blackburn had generously agreed to present the committee with new
and improved self-recording apparatus for the weighing experiments.
The Chairman moved that the thanks of the Council be given to
Mr. Blackburn for his generosity. This was seconded, and passed
unanimously.
It was unanimously resolved to invite Mr. Thomas Blyton to become
an honorary member of the National Association of Spiritualists,
because, as the mover set forth, of the unselfish hard work he had done
for years in the interests of Spiritualism.
After the performance of some business connected with the interior
working of the Association, the meeting broke up.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
inquirers’ seance.
At the Inquirers’ Seance held on the premises of the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists on Wednesday, April 10th, Mr. W. Eglinton
being the medium, “Gray’s gauntlets” were used with great success.
Nine persons were present. Mr. Eglinton’s coat was first sewn together
in front; the gauntlets (a new pair, made of stiff leather) were laced on
his wrists, the ends of the laces tied, sewn together, and then stitched to
the cuff of the medium’s coat, his hands being placed behind his back.
A piece of tape was next passed through the ring of each handcuff,
knotted, and the ends (about a foot long} were stitched up the centre of
Mr. Eglinton’s coat. He then sat as usual in the cabinet, with his legs
and feet in full view, in a fair light. Under these circumstances, a
bell which was placed on the chimes (the latter resting on the medium’s
knees) was taken up and rung; the chimes themselves were struck, then
removed bodily and played in the cabinet, held out from the cabinet, a
gentleman sitting nearest having them placed against his head, and
finally thrown on to the floor.
“ Joey,” who kept talking during the whole of the seance, requested
that the chimes should be replaced on the medium’s knees, and a book
placed upon them. This was done, the back of the book being to the
medium; the book was then several times opened and shut. “Joey,”
on wishing us “ Good night,” said, “I am going to strike the chimes,
and directly you hear them let one of the gentlemen go into the cabinet,
and see whether the medium is still fast.” This was done, and the
medium found secure. When the gas was turned up, a card, which had
been initialed by two of the gentlemen present and placed with a pencil
on the chimes, was found to have the word “Joey” written on one side
and an illegible scrawl on the other. On the knots and stitches being
examined, they were pronounced by those who had tied and sewn them
to be intact. George C. Joad,
Member of Research Committee, in charge.
A considerable number of copies of The Spiritualist, containing the
recent discoveries in relation to mediumship, has been sent by the Orient
line to Mr. Terry, of Melbourne; Spiritualists in New Zealand, who
require extra copies, may obtain them from him, instead of losing much
time by sending to London.
May 17, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
235
VARIATIONS IN THE WEIGHT OF A MEDIUM DURING
MANIFESTATIONS.
BT WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
It having been suggested that I should briefly state the
main points of the experiments given by me in great
detail, with diagrams, in The Spiritualist of May 8, 1878,
I have much pleasure in so doing.
The British National Association of Spiritualists some
time since appointed a committee to prosecute original
research in relation to spiritual phenomena, and allotted
it a room on its premises at 38, Great Rus^ell-street,
London, in which to conduct its operations. The Asso¬
ciation at the same time gave the Research Committee
the use of all the appliances it possessed upon the estab¬
lishment, and a few months ago the committee began its
work in connection with research by attempting to ascertain
continuously the variations, if any, in the weight of a
medium during the occurrence of powerful physical mani¬
festations. The Research Committee consists of Mr. j
Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Member of the Society of Tele¬
graphic Engineers, Chairman; Mr. C. F. Varlev, F.R.S.,
C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M. (Cantab)7 Mr. W.
H. Coffin; Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister-at-Law; the Rev.
W. Stainton-Moses, M.A. (Oxon); Mr. Dawson Rogers;
Mr. J. W. Gray, C.E.; Mr. E. T. Bennett; Mr. F. Bar¬
rett ; Mr. T. H. Edmands; the Rev. W. W. Newbould,
M.A. (Cantab); Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Didsbury;
Mr. George C. load; Captain John James; Mri F. W.
Percival, M.A. (Oxon); Mr. H. Withall; Mr. George King;
Mr. G. F. Green; Dr. Carter-Blake, Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; and myself. The
medium through whom the valuable results hereinafter
recorded have been obtained is Mr. C. E. Williams.
A cabinet was mounted on a weighing machine, in order
that, as the weight of the medium in the cabinet varied
during manifestations, those variations might be recorded.
The record was made automatically upon a band of paper
round a vertical drum (Fig. 1), revolving by clockwork in
the direction denoted by the arrow. The pencil W moves
up and down in accordance with the variations in the
weight upon the machine, and as the
cylinder is also in motion, zigzag
lines upon the paper are the result.
The line A B represents the weight of
-Di—l , cabiuet, the line B D that of the
Wj tv medium, or an indicated weight of 153
* IVia • Viia a.ftfnal wmrrlif. mqtt Vm a. ■fnvu’
m
Fig. 1.
lbs.; his actual weight may be a few
pounds more or less, but such varia¬
tion being a constant does not affect
the scientific value of the results. As
the seance goes on, the weight of the
medium falls, and is subject to con¬
siderable fluctuations.
The following diagram (Fig. 2) shows broadly the
general results deducible from the few seances already
held under the conditions just stated. In this cut the
line N N represents sixty minutes of time, and the line
W N the 153 lbs. weight of the medium. During a materiali- | |
sation seance his weight gradually falls to between 80 lbs. ! !
and 35 lbs. between B and D, and towards the close of the jlj
stance his weight is recovered in three sudden instalments, ! |
represented between D and E. j j
During the common manifestations of a dark seance, | j
such as the floating and playing of musical instruments, j !
the weight of the medium does not sink so much as during j j
a materialisation stance; it sinks only to K K (Fig. 2), ! j
instead of to B D. j j
The lines K K and the lines B D are not of the same |jj
nature. K K (Fig. 2) is of the nature represented by A B j j
(Fig. 3), and B B (Fig. 2) of the nature represented by !!!
D E (Fig. 3). During a strong dark stance the body of a
powerful physical medium is of but about half its normal
Fig. 3.
weight, and subject to momentary fluctuations of several
pounds each.
During the only strong materialisation stance held with
Mr. Williams while he was on the weighing apparatus, his
body gradually sank to less than one-fourth its normal
weight, and lay as a motionless mass in the cabinet.
When the spirits returned to this mass to “ take on more
of the mortal,” it slowly increased in weight, as represented
at F (Fig. 3), but fell suddenly when they left it again, as
represented at H. Each time they left it, it was a pound
or two less in weight than before, as indicated by the
dotted lines (Fig. 3).
The study of the original diagrams suggests that a
medium and two spirits, by equally sharing the matter of
the medium’s body, can produce lively physical effects at a
dark seance, almost the same as if each spirit were clothed
with the normal complement of matter of the body of
a human being. I have seen something analogous to this
in chemical actions, when for experimental purposes
covering glass with a film of pure bright silver, by precipi¬
tating the metal from one of its ammoniacal solutions.
The results were apparently nearly the same, whether the
same quantity of solution contained two, four, six, or eight
parts of silver. The film of silver on the glass was mar¬
vellously thin.
The recorded results are far more important than any
scientific discovery which has been recorded in The Philo¬
sophical Transactions of the Royal Society during the present
generation, and the reason why the results are not in the
pages of that publication are, that when Mr. Crookes first
brought some of the phenomenal facts of Spiritualism
before the Royal Society, the Council treated him and the
facts just as it treated Benjamin Franklin when he an¬
nounced to the Society his discovery of lightning con¬
ductors.
New and improved self-recording apparatus, to be
presented to the Research Committee by Mr. Charles
Blackburn, is in course of construction, and some in¬
teresting additional results are expected before long.
38, Great Russell-street, London.
Intuition is the power to recognise and comprehend a truth without
deduction or reasoning. To it belongs the higher and finer perceptions
of the soul, by which it not only perceives truth through the avenues of
the senses, but is susceptible to certain interior influences belonging
exclusively to its nature.—Leander.
Professor Max Muller’s Lectures.—Professor Max Muller is now
delivering a course of lectures on Thursdays, in the Chapter House,
Westminster Abbey, on “ The Origin of Religions.” The attendance
hitherto has been very large, and has included a moderate proportion
of Spiritualists. Reports are printed at some length in The Times,
every Friday or Saturday. As yet he has not dealt with phenomenal
psychology, but may possibly be doing so at the time these lines are
being printed. If he criticises any of our recently proved facts, a report
will appear in these pages next week. No doubt it is owing to the
honest and liberal spirit of Dean Stanley that the public are able to
listen to trustworthy information on the ancient religion of India
beneath the shadow of Westminster Abbey.
Useful Lives.—Blessed is he who has found his work; let him
ask no other blessedness. He has a work, a life purpose ; he has
found it, and will follow it! How, as a free flowing channel, dug and
torn by noble force through the sour mud-swamp of one’s existence,
like an ever deepening river there, it runs and flows; draining off
the sour, festering water gradually from the root of the remotest
grass-blade; making, instead of the pestilential swamp, a great
fruitful meadow with its clear flowing stream. How blessed for
the meadow itself, let the stream and its value be great or small!
Labour is life; from the inmost heart of the worker rises the God-
given force, the sacred celestial life-essence; from the inmost heart
awakens him to all nobleness, to all knowledge, self-knowledge, and
much else, so soon as work fitly begins. Knowledge! the knowledge
that will hold good in working, cleave thou unto that; Nature accredits
that, says yea to that. Properly thou hast no other knowledge but what
thou hast got by working; the rest is yet all an hypothesis of knowledge ;
a thing to be argued of in schools, a thing floating in the clouds, in end¬
less logic vortices, till we try it and fix it. Doubt, of whatever kind,
can be ended by action alone.— Carlyle.
236
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 17, 1878.
SOME MEDICAL MEN AT THEIR WORK. ; )
THE ATTEMPT TO LOCK UP MRS. WELDON IN A MADHOUSE. j)
The medical men who signed the certificates which led j j
to the practical attempt to lock up Mrs. Weldon in a mad- j |
house, obtained access to her by representing that they ||
knew of orphans they wished to place under her care, and j j
she states that one of them told her that he had an aunt j j
who was a medium. Thinking that details on these points I (
might throw light upon little-known duties performed by a ||
very respectable section of the medical profession, we !\
requested Mrs. Weldon to favour us with full particulars | |
for publication. She has given us a clear, coherent account j 5
of the whole case, with permission to abridge the same. I <
We have accordingly struck out particulars relating to | ?
various individuals, including M^nier, whose case is sub j>
judice, under which circumstances the law very justly I
permits no colouring by statements in newspapers. Here I j i
is Mrs. Weldon’s interesting account of her interviews | j!
with the doctors, whose names and certificates are not f < j
accessible by legal right to Mrs. Weldon or to the general j j j
public, so an alleged lunatic is much worse off than an m
alleged criminal. The latter knows what he is charged j|j|
with, and who charges him. j;j
On Sunday morning, the 14fch April, I was arrayed in a flannel i; j
dressing-gown well tucked up ; a large dirty apron covered all. I had ! c j
a pair of most inelegant slippers. The bell rang about ten a.m.; my j S j
maid Yilliers came to say that two gentlemen (Messrs. Shell and |) j
Stewart) wished to see me for a few moments. I took it for granted j) |
that it was a Mr. Stewart, a tradesman. I did not mind him ; I could | j !
go on dusting and arranging my books whilst they were present, so I j j I
said I would see them—my dressing-gown and apron would be excused. ! |
To my astonishment, Messrs. Shell and Stewart were not the persons I j s j
believed them to be. They set me at my ease by saying, “You do not j);
know us well, but we have often seen you; we have read your works on i ] j
the education of children in The Spiritualist, and are very desirous of j (j
placing some children with you.” In answer to questions they con- |; I
tinuously put to me, I replied that I was sorry I could not take any j (j
more at present; that I bad made up my mind that nothing was worse j) |
for children than to bring them up to be clever, accurate, superior, j 5 j
obedient, and well-behaved; that my clever, obedient children were a ! (|
living reproach to any mother, or father, or relation of any kind who hi
had any child in. the family ; that people hated me as well as them for j) j
their superiority ; that people tried to make out I starved, whipped, i ] I
and ill-treated them ; that wherever the children went they took up a m
position for leading the others, and independence of character, which |)l
made them at once stand out from among the rest; that they were well- m
mannered, without being forward; that they were stuffed with buns, j s j
cakes, oranges, &c., wherever they went—spoilt and flattered; and that j j
it was no wonder infant prodigies turned out good-for-nothing. I there- j l i
fore had made up my mind that I would put them to ordinary schools j j
and bring them up in the ordinary way; that if I ever could get the j) j
women and the money to help me carry out my original scheme of m
keeping fifty children, I would receive any orphan (quite an orphan) j (i
they wished; but that I absolutely declined to take any more at j) j
present. I recommended them to the convent at Gisors, and told them ! (!
of the Orphanage there. . i (|
They asked me if I expected to succeed in my scheme. “Perhaps j) j
not, in this world,” I answered. I had written a book called Musical j (]
Reform, which had made everybody in the newspapers and among )) j
publishers my bitter enemy. I believed I had implanted the seed in ! 1
the children 1 have, that at least one would grow up to teach as well as
I did. “ At all events,” I said, “ if I do not succeed in this world, I
shall in the next. I have been through too much sorrow, and have had
too much trouble not to know that I have a mission, and that I am an
instrument of Providence for some particular purpose. Now my tastes
are all quiet tastes; my life in a convent is perfect bliss. Not long
after I had settled in one a voice brought me home, and I was just in
time to catch this Menier and prosecute him. * In the wars again, Mrs.
Weldon,* I know every one will say. But I am no more to be blamed
for this row than for any of the others I am always getting into. It
seems as if I could not be left quiet. I believe some success is in store
for me, for I received a letter from Mr. Jules Rey. As I read it I said to
my maid (for I saw them gently pouring on my head and the hed on
which I was sitting), ‘ Oh, Yilliers ! Do you see the beautiful showers
of stars falling on me ! ’ The stars appeared to fall in answer to the
following observation I had made her about the letter. ‘ Villiers, I do
think this Menier bother is sent me for my good, and that the truth
will at last come out about all I have said and all I have done. It is
to be a moment of triumph! ’ I had been very much agitated by the
letters I had received, but after I had seen the stars I grew quite calm.”
I said all this in answer to questions they asked me as Spiritualists.
They asked me if I was a medium. I said, “ Oh 1 dear no.” The old
gentleman, who sat on a chair with his back to the light in a most
extraordinary position—viz., on the middle of his spine, and with his
hands clasped on his stomach—said “he was not a medium, but that he
had an aunt in Cornwall, a Miss Gay, who was a very good one. Had
I ever heard of her ? ’* I said, “ No.” Mr. Stewart, who was a round-
faced young man, rather like a washed Christy Minstrel, said he was a
medium, and that he could write on slates like Dr. Slade. I began to
think they had stayed long enough, so I got silent; they went off,
saying they were much pleased with what they had heard—that they
thought my advice about the orphans excellent, and should speak to the
relations. “ Relations,” I said ; “ pray understand me that I will never
have anything to do with any child who has any relation ; they would
be taken away from me the moment they could earn their living by
being turned into infant prodigies.” They said they could come again,
that they would report what I said, and that I was sure through them
of substantial help for myself and my Orphanage.
Messrs. Shell and Stewart asked me if I was very much injured in
point of money by this Menier. Was I in want of money ? I replied
that I supposed I should have lost over £1,000 worth; but that I was
very prudent with my income, and was always more than half a year’s
income in hand. I said I never risked anything; but that I had often
been wofully swindled. “ How do you explain your guardian spirits
not putting you on your guard against these cheats?” they asked. I
replied—“ The Lord loveth whom he chasteneth; I believe that I am
destined to accomplish some purpose of the Almighty ; I am, moreover,
certain that were I in a very grave danger, or that I was threatened by
some dreadful sorrow, I should be distinctly warned. I had three
visions, or warnings, the week before Gounod left; but I was not a
Spiritualist then, and did not regard them. I have no fear. I know
my motives are good. I quite believe God gives his angels charge
concerning usj so I am quite happy.” . . .
I must not omit to say that they asked me if the children would be
obliged to wear no shoes and socks. I answered that my children, when
at Tavistock House, went without shoes and socks because they pre¬
ferred to go without; that being at home, and hardly ever going out
except in the garden, it did not signify; but that as soon as they went
away from home they were obliged to do as everybody else did; that I
had to agonise the poor little things by putting them into these very
unnecessary coverings; that one little girl who was very lame when she
came to me had nearly got well by leaving off shoes and stockings, but
that since she had been abroad her leg had withered very much, and she
was much lamer; They had worn shoes and stockings nearly six
months. They certainly had not been so well in health.
They asked me some technical questions on the subject of Spirit¬
ualism and manifestations. I said I had no time to read
works on Spiritualism, that the children and their concerns
entirely absorbed me, that I had been to very few seances, that I did
not care for them, and that I knew so little about it that I should not be
up to a book on Spiritualism. All this I answered to corresponding
questions as they pressed me on the subject. I was not communicative,
as they told me they read The Medium and the The Spiritualist, “ and
so,” said I, “you know all I think without my telling.” I thought
them both common and uninteresting, and took them for fifth-rate
attorneys.
When they were gone I told Yilliers and Mr. Bell, the man in charge,
not to let any one else in to me unless they wrote their names, their
addresses, and then I should know by the handwriting if any one who
came was a person I knew. I made up my mind to see no one else
about orphans; they had been more than half-hour, and I did not like
having been disturbed so long.
Several friends called during the day, General De Bathe among others.
He was barely ten minutes in the house; Villiers and Bell both say he
certainly was not ten minutes. Two young ladies came in almost
immediately after he called, and he left five minutes after. I was full of
my Menier case, full of spirits, and I remember I thought it rather
queer his saying that I should not have prosecuted the man ; that I had
trusted him, and that he was relying upon my letters for his defence.
“ What care I about my letters ? ” said I. I know what is in them.
They cannot compromise me in any way! ” He seemed vexed; I attri¬
buted his saying this to his feeling of annoyance at my being in the wars
again.
I remember telling General De Bathe the two houses next me were
unlet, and the lovely house also opposite mine at the bottom of our
gardens. I said I did not despair of mollifying the Duke of Bedford,
whose freehold property they were. I said the house Charles Dickens
had lived in should be dedicated to the poor; that I am sure, could I
but make my wish known, the country would pour subscriptions in upon
me, and that I should have the house (separate from Tavistock, Bedford,
and Russell houses) at the bottom of the gardens kept as a lying-in
house for poor girls with poor, respectable parents (such as one of whom
I had information, who was then on the eve of her confinement, and had
nowhere but the workhouse to be confined in).
On the evening of the same day Villiers had gone out. Elisabeth
(another of my old servants) was paying me a visit. I think it was
about half-past eight. We were in close conversation; the bell rang.
Bell announced, “ Those gentlemen who came this morning, Mr, Shell
and Mr. Stewartf While he was asking, and while I was reflecting as
to whether or not I should receive them at that hour of night, they
stood in my room, close behind Mr. Bell. To my utter astonishment
these men were not Mr. Shell and Mr. Stewart. I looked surprised,
and said, “You are not Messrs. Shell and Stewart!” “No!” an¬
swered the older of the two, a “ tubby ” little man about sixty-five
years old, with plenty of “ cheek.” “ We come from them, so we gave
their names as we have come about the Orphanage. They were very
much pleased with all they heard; they can be of material service to
you, but they entirely forgot to ask you anything about this wonderful
method of yours.” This I thought all right, for it was quite true that
in the morning, my method of teaching had in no way been mooted. I
do not consider that I introduced a single topic. Everything I said
was in answer to positive and direct questions. I did not think it
strange; I suspected that it was all about some rich and mysterious
orphans, that these four business men were lawyers or lawyers’ clerks,
that it was quite natural they should feel anxious in confiding them to
me at present or ultimately, that their money should not be ill-spent,
and that the children would be brought up to earn a living. These
two men gave me to understand they were Spiritualists, but that they
May 17, 1878.
237
THE SPIRITUALIST.
had not read my letters on education. That was in answer to my
saying that as they (Messrs. Shell and Stewart) were Spiritualists,
they could, in The Spiritualist, learn very nearly exactly all I thought,
preached, and practised about singing and general training of children.
Subsequently they said something which made me feel certain they were
Atheists, and therefore could not be - Spiritualists. The old gentleman
asked me if it was my opinion that everybody would sing equally well
if I taught them ? “ If I took them from babies.” “ I understand you,’’
said he, ‘e that you say they would all have equally fine voices ?”
“ No,” I replied, “ I most decidedly do not say that. I said they would
sinp equally well'7 “ Then your theory is, all people would sing equally
well were they born with or without a voice!’’ “ No one is born with¬
out a voice,’’ said I. “A deaf and dumb person has plenty of voice,
so has an animal, but their voices cannot be trained, because
one lacks ear, the other lacks intelligence. An accident may happen
to your vocal chords, and they may be strained or injured by illness, just
as accident may deprive you of a limb, in which case you would no longer
be able to walk, or to run, or to work.” “ And you say you can make
them sing when they are three months old?” “Heavens, no 1 ” I
said, “I never thought of such a thing. Three years old!” “But
when do you begin to teach them; you begin to teach them at three
months old ? What sort of a voice have they ? ” I began to think the
“ Tubby One ” very stupid and very deaf, so I began to talk louder.
“I do not consider I begin to teach children at all, at any age. It all
depends upon how forward they are naturally. As soon as they can sit
up in their chairs they play at being big children; they are seated at a
table with little bits of coloured rags in front of them, which they pick,
tear, and pull to pieces, obeying their natural love of destruction. I
bring up children to obey their natural instincts, only they are trained
by me to use them to good instead of useless effect. I let them
destroy. The rags can be used to stuff pillows for them, and they have
great pride when a pillow is filled. I let them tear up paper and strew
it all over the floor. I let them make as much mess as they please,
because it delights them, and that they understand it is quite fair they
should clear up and sweep away their own litter. I thus teach them
early to be neat and tidy, and not to give servants unnecessary work.”
The Tubby One seemed much interested in all I told him; he had got a
little bit of paper and a pencil, and noted down the information I gave
him. He had sometimes to efface what he wrote, for, upon several
occasions, I corrected what he read out. One thing I remember was
about the children singing at three months old. I thought, at the time,
that he was deaf; but I now plainly see what he was driving at. He
was trying to entangle me to talk rubbish.
The younger man of the two was very taciturn ; the “ cut of his
jib” was that of a seedy dentist’s assistant — a bad-looking young
man. The old man seemed to wish me to have a high opinion of
him, for he told me about the grandeur of his relations. One of his
daughters, I recollect his saying, was married to a judge in Australia.
He asked me if any of my children were mediums, and I said I did
not know; then I recollected myself, and said, “Oh, yes! one of my
boys, Alfred Rawlings, must be a medium. He and one of my nurses
were going to walk round the garden about half-past seven one evening,
and they both distinctly saw Dan, my dear old pug, walking towards
his grave. This was about three weeks after I had buried him under
the mulberry tree.” “ Did you see him ? ” asked the Tubby One. “ No!
I do not suppose I ever should see a vision of that kind.” “Do you
believe that was your dog’s spirit?” “Yes, I do!” said I, “and I
always felt sure that dear dog had a soul. Mr. Weldon and I doated on
him, and we called him our angel." “ Do you believe he is an angel ?”
“ He ought to be.” The old man pressed the point, and I stuck to it
that if “ Dan was not an angel that he ought to be one! ” “ Can you tell
me anything more about any other animal?” I said, “No!” and
laughed. I looked at my servant, and asked her if she remembered
about any other animal. She did not remember about anything. All of
a sudden I recollected a curious little white rabbit with black ears, black
scut, and black paws, which had been spirited to a seance by Mrs.
Guppy, which had been given to me, which I had kept four or five
months, and which disappeared as mysteriously as it had appeared. He
was a very extraordinary animal. Instead of being timid, like most
rabbits are; instead of being frightened at the dogs, and of a most
ferocious cat we have, which kills every cat, rat, or mouse that comes
near the place, the rabbit frightened the cat and played with the dogs from
the very first moment it came into the house. “Ah, I dare say,” said
the Tubby One, “ you thought he had a devil! ” and before the answer
was out of my mouth, he began to write down something. “ Nothing of
the kind,” said I, “I never gave it a thought!” The Tubby
One then went out, and I heard him, as I imagined, looking for
something. So I told Elisabeth to go and ask him what he
wanted. Directly she had left the room the Taciturn One got
livelier. He began by telling me he had heard me sing at Gounod’s
concerts ; how beautifully I sang. Did not I sing a great deal ? Was
not I singing all day ? To which I answered that when I was not with
the children I hardly ever went near the piano, and did not care for
singing at all. He then told me I was very beautiful, and how young I
looked; to which I replied nothing, for I did not see what that had to
do with him. The Tubby One, followed and watched by Elisabeth,
then returned; the Taciturn One then retired, Elisabeth watching him.
They neither of them did anything in the corridor, and only appeared
to wait one for the other. The Tubby One returning, said, “ What a
nice, fine garden you have for the children!” He went to the bow-
window, got under the blind, and tried to open the window and could
not; so thinking he wanted to see the garden, which he kept on talking
about, asking me if I walked about in it a good deal?—at any parti¬
cular times?—I went to open the window, looked out and admired the
fine trees, turned round, and beheld the Tubby One’s eyes fixed upon
me with a sort of glittering stare or leer which terrified me. I quickly
came out from under the blind. I called Elisabeth. She returned
i 11 with the Taciturn One, and then they both said they would go. I felt ss
; 11 if they were both bad men, wishing to do me harm, and I said, “ Before
I (I you go, let me show you that I am under the special care of Provi-
!| dence!” and I told them about the infamous letters I had found,
I U proving a conspiracy had existed against me since last December ; at
I > | which they certainly did hurry out of the room, saying they would come
I’ 11 again.
After they were gone I said to Elisabeth, “ Oh, Tibby, I feel
; > I dreadful! Something awful has come over me. I feel as if black
| (j clouds were floating down over me one by one, and I see all black! I
| (| feel as if I were in the most dreadful danger! What can those men be ?
! /1 I am in some horrible trap.” “ They seemed very pleasant gentlemen,”
| (j said Elisabeth. “Too pleasant, Tibby,” said I, quite inconsolable. I
j (| could talk and think about nothing more. I am sure they must have
j ? i stayed about an hour. “ They want to get me away from here, I am
i (| certain!” It came to my memory that Menier had written to his wife
! | i and told her   was trying to put me into a lunatic asylum.
i j i Tibby, who had never seen me at all discomposed, tried to allay my
| I alarms; but I said, “ It is no use, Tibby, I cannot talk, I feel I only
j j j get worse, I feel that I am lost 1” So she went away. I longed for
i ! Yilliers to lock and bolt up the house. I went and put the chain on
i | the front door; I went down to the pantry to Mr. Bell. “ Oh, Mr. Bell!’’
I jj I moaned, “I am all in a shake and a shiver. I wish Yilliers would
| (! come in, we would lock up the house and go to bed.. The policemen are
| (I on the beat, so we are safe for to-night, but to-morrow we must look
| |j sharp.” I kept downstairs with him, not daring, for the first time in my
| j | life, to go to bed alone; and it must have been a quarter-past ten, we
i | heard the gate (which, on account of its being out of repair, was shut to
| i with an immense flagstone) open, and a carriage drive in. “ Oh!”
j |! cried I, starting up, “ Mr. Bell, that carriage is for me ?” “ Oh, non-
| (! sense, ma’am,” said Mr. Bell, “ a carriage won’t come at this time of
j I! night for you.” I was shaking and shivering worse than ever. “ Don’t
| (I go to the front door!” “It is not for this house at all,” said Mr. Bell.
| (| “ The people have made some mistake; they are talking to the police-
|) I man!” The words were hardly out of his mouth, the bell rang. So
j (I Bell called out from the kitchen door, “ Who’s there?” “ A gentleman
| j and two ladies to see Mrs. Weldon!” Bell came in again. “ I dare
| > not stand there,” he said; “the area gate is not locked, they might
j (| come down that way.” Bell himself seemed to get frightened now. The
I ! | bell rang again. “ Go upstairs, open the door on the chain, and ask their
| | names, addresses, and business—but whatever you do, do not let them in
| (I to the passage!” Up went Mr. Bell. The man alone spoke, and
!; | we, as well as the policeman, suspected the women might be men dressed
jrj as females. After several questions, Mr. Bell said, “You cannot see
| (| Mrs. Weldon, she is gone to bed.” “ All the better,” said the man,
5 [ I “ you are here for Mr. Weldon.” . . . “ No matter who I am here for! ”
I r j and Mr. Bell shut the door in their faces. They knocked and they
I (| rang three times, but we turned out the gas; they got tired of waiting,
i [! and at last we heard the carriage drive off. It was a large carriage
j 11 with two horses, and a coachman with a cockade. When they were gone
J ( we went up to the front door (after Bell had locked the area gate); we
I; | peeped cautiously out, and called the policeman. I told the policeman to
j (| ask the Inspector at Hunter-street to send or come round in the morning ;
I (I that I was sure I was in some dreadful danger, and that I must have some
! [ | police in the house. Villiers came in at that moment (it must have
| r | been ten minutes to eleven); she had seen the smart carriage driving
! (j down the square coming out of our gates. Seeing me so pale and
| /! trembling, so very much unlike my usually composed self, she got as
| j j frightened as I did, and neither of us hardly closed our eyes that night,
j j I got up early ; I posted letters to several friends to warn them of my
i /1 danger; also to Mr. Burns, editor of the Medium, and Mr. W. H.
! (I Harrison, editor of The Spiritualist. I was very much struck by a
i ( j passage in the Bow-street report of Menier’s case, which had not ap-
} peared in the Sunday papers, but which I read in Monday’s 15th April
j (| Standard. Prisoner’s counsel had never said anything about my having
j 11 delusions, or that I might be labouring under delusions as regards his
i ) I client; neither did he say “ that the fact of my carrying on an Orphan-
| (1 age in a house which had been Charles Dickens', without the sympathy
] (j or even co-operation of my husband, tended to prove I laboured under
] n delusions." I wrote to the Standard, as I firmly believe that portion of
| (! the report was not sent by the reporter of the Court.
All the morning I was thinking, “ Oh that I dared go out to Mrs.
|) i Lowe! ” I had seen the police; I had asked them to be in the dining-
| (j room at a quarter-past six that afternoon. I agreed to receive no one
j ) I did not know well till half-past six, so that I should be quite safe till
j) | then. No one came all the morning. Villiers and Bell both felt certain
| j | no one would come again, but I felt sure of the contrary, and longed for
j > j Mrs. Lowe. In the morning Mr. Lowther, Mr. Neal (Mr. Jevons’, my
I n husband’s solicitors’ agent), had been; to both of these I had told all
! (| my fears. At about half-past two, Mr. Bell asked me if I would see a
>1 Mrs. Thompson. Bell said he thought it was one of “last night’s
| (j females,” so I told him to say I was particularly engaged, and that I
i (| could not see any one till half-past six. She said—“ Very well,” and left,
i) j I wished I dared go off to Mrs. Lowe! The bell rang again. A note
! (| from Mr. Harrison introducing—who ?—but—Mrs. Lowe!!! The very
i (j woman I was longing and praying for. I was only too delighted to let
) | her come in. I welcomed her with joy and thankfulness. I had begun
! c | to tell her all my story—she had not been ten minutes with me—when
j (1 the bell rang again, and Bell came to the door of my room, and appeared
I ? | much agitated. He was trembling all over, and said, “Those three have
i (| come, have pushed their way in, and say they will wait till they can see
! 11 you.” I felt quite brave now. Villiers was out, so I asked Mrs. Lowe
m to go for the police. She went unfortunately to Tottenham-court-road
j (| station, so the police did not come immediately. Villiers came
| > | in at the same moment, so I sent her off to Hunter-street
|i|i police station, where they had received my instructions. The others
all soon arrived. Armed with two stalwart policemen and Mrs. Lowe, I
238
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 17, 1878.
went to the front door, and asked “those three’’ what they wanted
me for. One of the females said, or rather mumbled, something
about an orphanage. “What about an orphanage?” said I. “Mr.
Mitchell and Mr. Stewart said you would know!” “I don’t know!”
“ Come with us.” “ Where to ?” said I. Of course I had no intention
of going, but I should like to have drawn them out, pretended to go to
dress, gone to fetch the poker and broken their three heads, which I
am told I had the legal right to do. Unfortunately Mrs. Lowe cut my
little plot short hy saying, “ Indeed, you must not go!” whereupon the
man said, “ Take her.” The women darted upon me and seized me.
“ Give them in charge for assaulting you,” said Mrs. Lowe. “ Police¬
man,” said I, “ take them in charge, they are assaulting me.” I might
have spoken Hebrew or Chinese; they never moved, and I feel con¬
vinced they would have let me be carried off bodily. I shook off the
women, laughing. “ I knew what you had come for,” and I then stood
at a little distance shouting to the police, “ I give them in charge. Take
them up.” No doubt had they been my own forewarned policemen
from Hunter-street they would have taken them up fast enough and
walked them off, but the Hunter-street force had not yet arrived on the
scene of action. Mrs. Lowe told me to run back and lock myself in my
room. I did so; T sat down and wrote to Mr. Gladstone, Truth, my
mother, and several friends, as well as to several newspapers. At
last, when my policemen came, “ the trio ” were forced to say what
they had come for, and though they would not show Mrs. Lowe,
Miss Gray, Yilliers, or Mr. Bell, they were forced by the police to
show the order of lunacy they said they possessed. They then left.
I telegraphed to my husband to come and save me. Yilliers went
down on her knees to me to fly; Miss Gray, Bell, and the police all
agreed I had better not risk anything—that it would soon be cleared up
the next day, so I went. Mrs. Lowe and I stampeded down the square,
got into a hansom. She took me to her house, where she left me, and
then returned to Tavistock House for some of my things. I was terrified
the next day by hearing that a man had been with the three keepers to
Tavistock House, in the hope of dragging me out of my bed at past 11
p.m., and to 64, Bemers-street, the office of the Lunacy Law Reform
Association. I hid most carefully for seven days, till the doctors’ cer¬
tificates lapsed; got plenty of publicity, saw heaps of friends, had long
conversations with Dr. George Wyld and Dr. James Edmunds, who
pronounced me and gave me certificates as perfectly sane. Although
afraid of appearing in court on Saturday, 20th April, I went to see Mr.
St. John Wontner, the Solicitor to the Treasury, on the 25th. He
seemed at first inclined to treat me rather rudely, as if I were a mad
person or an imbecile, and told me Dr. Winslow had just been to show
him the order in lunacy against me.
Mrs. Weldon justly remarks that had she been shut up
in an asylum her state of mind would have been fearful,
because in addition to the invariable horrors of the position,
she would have thought of her ten forsaken children, of
the nuns and the schoolmistresses who had believed in her
as an honest woman, and had in Prance agreed to keep
the children, counting upon her honour to pay their
schooling. She adds that supposing they never heard
from her, the poor little things themselves might have
grown up to believe that she had forsaken them.
Psychology in Hackney.—Mr. Charles R. Williams, of 6, Field
View-terrace, London-fields, Hackney, E., is secretary pro tem. of a
psychological society in course of formation in Hackney; several
members of the East End Spiritual Institution, and others interested
in the subject, constitute the nucleus of the society. Mr. Williams
states that it is proposed to hold healing seances on Sunday and Tues- |
day evenings, and that experimental siances are to be held after the j
healing seance on Tuesday evenings. Mr. Williams invites the attend- j
ance and co-operation of those who may possess developed psychical i
powers, as well as others who are anxious for an opportunity of sys¬
tematically observing psychological phenomena. Mr. Blyton, the hon.
secretary of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism,
called upon Mr. Williams on Monday evening last, and writes that I
Mr. Williams is well versed in matters appertaining to psychology, |
and, moreover, is successful as a mesmerist. Should the proposed j
society be successfully established, a friendly interchange of members’ j
privileges may probably be arranged between it and the Dalston Asso- I
ciation.
Warning Dreams.—The Yorkshire papers contain accounts of a j
fatal accident which happened last week to a boy named Walker, j
employed at a mill in Skipton, who came to a frightful death by falling
among the machinery. Craven Pioneer says, “ It is singular but
true, that the poor mother of the unfortunate lad dreamt on Monday
night that he was killed, that on the Tuesday evening his elder brother
had a similar dream, and that on the Wednesday evening the deceased |
himself (from whom the other dreams had been kept back) dreamt that j
he had fallen among the knives in the hopper at which he works.
While under this hallucination he sprang up in bed, and had to be
aroused by his brother, to whom he told his dream. And during the
same night the poor lad sprang up in bed again, and when gently
remonstrated with by his brother, with whom he slept, he said that he
was dreaming he had again been caught by the machine. The following
night he was brought home a corpse. So strong an impression had
these premonitions made upon Mrs. Walker’s mind that, when a good-
intentioned woman went to the house and told her she had received a |
message that her son-in-law was hurt, the poor woman threw her arms j \
up with a shriek, and said it was her own son that had been killed, j (
‘Not killed,’ gently admitted the woman, ‘only injured a little.’ i1
‘ JGlled,’ gasped the distressed mother; ‘I dreamt he was.’ ’’
(Eortesponuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers! Unsolicited communications cannot be returned ;
copies should be kept by the writers.]
j( j SPIRITUALISM IN LIVERPOOL.
: j | Sir,—Within a fortnight we have had two lectures from Dr. Peebles,
11 I five from the youthful orator, Mr. W. J. Colville, one from Mr. J. J.
| (i Morse, and a conference of Lancashire Spiritualists.
! 11 On Sunday, May 5th, Mr. Colville delivered two addresses in the
1.J Psychological Society’s Room, Camden Hotel, Camden-street; the
i j lectures were well received, and a great many people were turned
II i away in the evening, the society’s rooms not being large enough to
| (i accommodate all the visitors. In the afternoon of the same day Mr.
I | Colville gave a successful parlour stance at Mr. J. Lament’s, at Fair-
| field. The answering of questions while the medium was entranced
III gave much satisfaction.
j) j On Saturday and Monday evenings, the 11th and 13th inst., Mr.
i t | Colville delivered two lectures in the Large Concert Hall, Lord
| (| Nelson-street, on “Woman’s True Position and Divine Mission.” The
111 lectures were well received, and frequently interrupted by bursts of
II I applause ; but the audiences were not so large as could be wished. As
I! ! these lectures were given by Mr. Colville in his individual capacity,
11 the pecuniary loss, if any, will fall upon him. When Mr. Colville is
j better known as a trance speaker in Liverpool he will secure larger
| audiences.
> The number of private seances held in Liverpool is on the increase.
( Quiet investigation is going on, but the public movement is far from
( what it should be.
The twelfth quarterly conference of the Lancashire Committee of
( Spiritualists was held on Sunday, the 12th inst., at the Concert Hall,
| Lord Nelson-street. The morning sitting commenced at 10.30 a.m.
| The quarterly report was read by Mr. Johnston, of Hyde, vice-
| ( president of the committee. It was considered satisfactory, and was
| | passed in due form.
| j An animated discussion took place as to whether the committee
! ( should increase the area of its operations. Messrs. Lamont, Parsons,
| > Sutcliffe, Shepherd, and J. J. Morse took part therein. It was finally
| ( i agreed not to increase the boundary of its present sphere of action.
] (j The society, or committee, with an income of £10 per quarter from
| > | members, and about £30 from donations and gifts, has done a great
i | I deal of work with a very little money; 127 lectures were delivered
y during the last quarter, at an expense of 5s. IJd. per lecture. The
!) | society finds its usefulness much cramped for want of a larger number
< of earnest workers, and from shortness of funds. An appeal was made
11 | for more labourers and more material.
I The afternoon sitting commenced at 2.30, with Mr. Lamont in the
( j chair. The quarterly report was again read, and ratified by the con-
| | ference. The appeal for funds was well responded to. The delegates
j I and representatives from the various districts presented, upon the
j whole, favourable reports of the spread and reception of Spiritualism
| | in Lancashire. To give an idea of the work carried on by this Associa-
) j tion, there were delegates at the afternoon meeting present from
( ! Manchester, Bolton, Oldham, Rochdale, Macclesfield, Bury, Leigh,
) j Millom, Barrow, Diversion, Hyde, Burnley, Ashton, and Liverpool.
/ I Mr. J. J. .Morse lectures twelve times during each month, Mr. Baties
(| six times, Mr. Colville about eight times, Mr. Lamont (of Liverpool)
about twelve times; whilst Mr. Johnston, of Hyde; Mr. Holt, of
Bury; Mr. Brown, of Rhodes; and Messrs. Jackson, Dawson, and
Brown, of Manchester, have several appointments each to lecture under
the auspices of the committee. With the exception of the public media,
the labourers work without fee or reward, and not un frequently pay
their own expenses. A vote of thanks was passed to the outgoing
committee, and a special vote to Mr. Hartley, the hon. secretary. The
entire committee were re-elected. If I cannot speak so highly of the
public effort in Liverpool, it is gratifying to know so much is being
done in the immediate vicinity. Mr. Joseph Shepherd said, during the
morning conference, that it was time the Liverpool Spiritualists did a
little more for themselves, and depended less upon the exertions of a
few earnest and hardworking persons like Mr. J. Lamont.
A good number sat down to tea, which was served in the lower hall,
for strangers from a distance. It was, in fact, a friendly reunion.
Many of the local Spiritualists remained to tea to keep their visitors
company. The appeal for funds met with a response of £9 18s. 2d. at
the afternoon collection.
Mr. J. J. Morse occupied the platform at the evening meeting, and
lectured on “ Spiritualists : their Privileges and Duties.” He delivered
a most telling oration, to the effect that it is to be hoped that the day is
not far distant when the principles of Spiritualism and the practice
thereof may be more in harmony the one with the other; when the
right hand of fellowship will be held out to the struggling ones to aid
them upward and onward, and when the feeble efforts of those who
would do right will not be crushed in the budding by the strong.
J. Coates.
Liverpool.  
MATERIALISATION AND OTHER SEANCES.
Sir,—I have much pleasure in recording a case of materialisation
through Mr. Eglinton’s mediumship, in which the identity of the spirit
was very clearly proved. While holding a private seance with Mr.
Eglinton on the 2nd, I had been told by one of his spirit-guides,
“ Daisy,” that if I came to his seance on Sunday evening, my friends
would try to give me a test that would convince me; and I therefore,
by his kind invitation, attended the seance, which took place on Sunday,
the 5th inst. I must add that I was a perfect stranger to Mr. Eglinton,
and that he was wholly unacquainted with even the names of my
relations who have passed from earth-life.
May 17, 1878
THE SPIRITUALIST.
239
Very shortly after the circle was formed, and manifestations had j
began, Mr. Eglinton, who was at that time in his normal condition,
said—“ Miss Gr., I see a gentleman standing behind your chair with ]
dark whiskers and moustache, and a handsome face. He is an officer, j
for he is dressed in regimentals, and I see a number on his cap. It is j
9, and either 2 or 3. I see a name.” Here Mr. Eglinton spelt the j
Christian name of a relation of mine, backwards. “ He is sending a
message to you. He says, ‘ Tell F—— that her wishes with regard to
India will be fulfilled.’ Now he is touching your head.”- At the same j
moment I felt a hand stroke my hair, and touch me several times on the
head and forehead. In a tone so low as to be unheard by those around
me, I asked my cousin, for I felt convinced it was he, if he or
my sister would try to materialise, and was answered by some taps on
the head.
The description was an accurate one of a cousin who died last year;
he was for many years attached to the 29 th regiment, and on looking at
a photograph of one of his brother officers a few days afterwards, I saw
that the number, 29, is on the cap. The message referred to a family
matter, and his and one of my sisters’ names were given in full.
After the first materialisation (in subdued light) my cousin, I was
told, appeared—the second materialised spirit—and I saw his moustache
and whiskers, but his head was so enveloped iu white drapery that I did j
not feel so absolutely sure that it was himself as I should have liked,
though I could see there was a resemblance to him. He nodded to me,
and two or three other materialisations followed. As if my cousin had
read my thoughts, I was much surprised to see him again, this time
with the face fully exposed, showing his curly hair, face, and dark
moustache and whiskers so completely that I at once recognised him.
His height was precisely the same as in earth-life. He again nodded to
me, and kissed his hand several times.
I must leave to others a description of the wonderful materialisations
in this very interesting seance, but I wish to point out the following
facts:—
1st. Mr. Eglinton’s description of my cousin, name given, &c., were
accurate. I was not thinking of him, and did not know that the number
of the regiment was on the caps.
2nd. His message was a farther proof of his identity, as it indicated
an intimate acquaintance with my family and affairs. The matter
referred to had never once crossed my mind daring the sSance.
3rd. His materialisation was so distinct as to be instantly recognised
by me. I may add that on my return home my hand was moved to
write as follows, “ Are you satisfied now? "W.”
I was. And it may not be amiss to remark in the present era of
theory-building, that if we reject evidence of this kind, or admit any
doubt as to the power of our spirit-friends to materialise for a certain
length of time after death, no evidence in Spiritualism is of any value
whatever. My name and address, withheld only for private reasons,
are given to the editor, and I shall have pleasure in satisfying any one
personally of the truth of the foregoing account.
It may interest others to hear of the following incident in Mr.
Fletcher’s mediumship. Before I came to London I wrote to him and
requested that an answer from my friends might be given to me. I
received in a few days a letter purporting to be from my father, in which
a certain phrase used by me mentally when troubled, and which was un¬
known to any human being but myself, and had certainly never crossed
my mind when writing my brief note to Mr. Fletcher, was mentioned as
having been heard by my father. It was such as could not be ex¬
plained by any theory of coincidence or guess work. Mr. Fletcher told
me in a note from himself that while writing he heard a name being
repeated by some one, but could not catch the message. It was the
name of my sister’s stepson, of whom she was very fond in earth-life,
and was a most uncommon one. Mr. Fletcher never saw me till I came
up to town, and there were 300 miles between us. Have letters
“ spheres ” with all one’s life and private thoughts and the correct
names of one’s friends recorded in them? Or does one’s own sphere,
with a similar amount of information in it, extend 300 miles ?
S. E. G.
London, May 9th.
[In this instance we break through our general rule of not printing anony¬
mous letters about manifestations with professional mediums. Writers are
requested to put their names and addresses for publication to such communi¬
cations.—Ed.]
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
Sir,—I trust the recent attack on Mrs. Weldon will at length con¬
vince Spiritualists that they are all in special danger from the lunacy
laws, and arouse them at last to exertion for the amelioration of those
laws.
I am often asked, “ If the Commissioners in Lunacy have decided
that Spiritualism is per se insanity, how is it that so many Spiritualists
are unmolested ? ” To this I can only answer that the Commissioners
in Lunacy do not take the initiative in these matters, and that there¬
fore there neither is, nor will be, any active persecution on their part;
but they will never interfere on behalf of a Spiritualist, and the incar¬
ceration of a Spiritualist can always be effected and indefinitely pro¬
longed, as far as the authorities are concerned, on the ground of insane
religious belief. For I reassert that in the month of June, 1871, the
Lunacy Commissioners formally adjudged that “ all Spiritualists are
mad ”—that those were the words used without any qualification
whatever, and that to the best of my belief they have acted on the
same ever since.
It is therefore clearly the public duty, and also the interest of all,
to combine in order to get the laws altered. As to the remedy needed,
I must, sir, respectfully differ from you. I do not think that any
possible manipulation of incarceration by medical certificates could
render them safe. Public servants, highly salaried by Government as
certifiers of lunacy, would of course be less open to corrupt motives
j j than are such men as are now sometimes called in ; but what is to
preserve them from the special vice of all professional experts, that of
| seeing their own specialite everywhere—of keeping, as it were, a mental
I Procrustean couch which he who cannot fit is mad ?
The only possible security, in my opinion, lies in making action, not
| opinion, the test of sanity, and in calling in trained legal judicial skill
:j I to decide whether the action has been committed or not, and if
(i so, whether the actor was, or was not, responsible. This would
effectually do away with the rubbish of requiring the certifiers
j “ personally to observe facts indicating insanity,” and all the treachery,
lying, and deception which such assumed necessity entails. An
alleged lunatic would then no longer be subject to such tricks; he
! would be told that he was accused of lunacy on account of such and
such noxious acts, and if he had really committed, and could not
j rationally account for them, no amount of cunning or reserve could
save him from conviction as a lunatic.
The first step towards this healthy state of things is for the public
; j to give up their hankering after secresy, which is incompatible with
i public safety. Let them be assured that Lord Shaftesbury’s words are
i perfectly true now, as when he uttered them before the Select Com-
j ! mittee in 1859, “ If there is any insane relative of a family it is
j invariably knownf and all that can possibly be done is to conceal the
i place of his detention. Is it worth perpetuating the present iniquities
j for so little ?
i In conclusion, I earnestly urge all who can to strengthen our
I hands by joining this society, which as yet is small as compared to
i what it should be. Louisa Lowe,
i Hon, Sec. to the Lunacy Law Reform Association.
; I 64, Berners-street, Oxford-street, London.
' I PSYCHOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY.
I Mr. John W. Draper, M.D., Professor of Chemistry and Physiology
! in the University of New York, in his Human Physiology, Statical
j and Dynamical, after speaking of the mechanism of the human body,
| says:— .
i In this regard the human body may be spoken of as a mere instru-
j ment or engine, which acts in accordance with the principles of
j mechanical and chemical philosophy, the bones being levers, the blood-
i vessels hydraulic tubes, the soft part generally the seats of oxidation,
j j But if we limit our view to such a description, it presents to us man in a
i most incomplete and unworthy aspect. There animates this machine a
J 'i j self-conscious and immortal principle—the soul.
I Though in the most enlarged acceptation it would fall under the
province of physiology to treat of this immortal principle, and to con¬
sider its powers and responsibilities, these constitute a subject at once so
boundless and so important that the physiologist is constrained to
surrender to the psychologist and theologian, and the more so since the
proper and profitable treatment of it becomes inseparably involved with
things that lie outside of his domain.
Yet under these circumstances, considering the ever-increasing
control which scientific truth exerts over the masses of men, considering
too how much the welfare of the human family depends on the precision
and soundness of its religious views, it is the duty of the physiologist, if
for the reasons that have been specified he yields this great subject to
others, to leave no ambiguity in the expression of the conclusion to
which his own science brings him. Especially is it for him, whenever
the opportunity offers, to assert and to uphold the doctrine of the
oneness, the immortality, the accountability of the soul, and to enforce
those paramount truths with whatever evidence the structure of the
body can furnish. For this reason, he cannot recall but with regret
the existing use of many terms, such as mind, intellect, vital principle,
spirit, which, though they were at first doubtless employed as expres¬
sions of the functions or qualities of the soul, have in the course of time
gathered other meanings, and confused the popular ideas. They have
brought about a condition of things in science not unlike that which
prevailed in theology during the reign of' polytheism. Constrained,
perhaps, himself by the necessities of language to use such phraseology,
it is for him at the outset to leave no doubt of the views he entertains,
and, as far as he can, prevent such expressions from frittering away the
great truth that, as there is but one God in the universe, so there is but
j one spirit in man.
j On one of these terms, the vital principle, I may make a few remarks,
1 since, from being a mere expression of convenience, it has by degrees
; risen among physicians and physiologists to the rank of designating an
existing agent, by some regarded as of the same kind as light, heat,
| electricity, or gravitation; nay, even superior to them, since it is its
j peculiar attribute to hold them all in check. Animated by this very
extraordinary power, organic substances are supposed to withstand every
external influence, .and to submit to physical agents only after this
principle has left them. Such a preposterous doctrine will not bear the
touch of exact science for a moment. It is only a relic of the old
metaphysical system of philosophising, which accepted a name in lieu of
an explanation, which preferred the dogma of the horror of a vacuum to
the more simple but material view of the pressure of the air. By the
aid of this imaginary principle complete physiological systems have
been woven, in which every act and every condition of the animal
economy is spontaneously explained, and nothing remains for solution,
j But by the student of nature, whose mind has been trained in positive
i science, the imposture is detected. He sees at a glance that this is not
! the style of the Great Artist. The problems of organisation are not to
be solved by empirical schemes; they require the patient application of
all the aids that can be furnished by all other branches of human know¬
ledge, and even then the solution comes tardily. Yet there is no cause
I for us to adopt those quick but visionary speculations, or to despair of
^ giving the true explanation of all physiological facts. Since it is given
240
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 17, 1878.
us to know our own existence and be conscious of our own individuality,
we may rest assured that we have what is in reality a far less wonderful
power, the capacity of comprehending all the conditions of our life.
God has framed our understanding to grasp all these things. For my
own part, I have no sympathy with those who say of this or that physio¬
logical problem, it is above our reason. My faith in the power of the
intellect of man is profound. Far from supposing that there are many
things in the structure and functions of the body which we can never
comprehend, I believe there is nothing in them that we shall not at last
explain. Then, and not till then, will man be a perfect monument of
the wisdom and power of his Maker, a created being knowing his own
existence, and capable of explaining it. In the application of exact
science to physiology I look for the rise of that great and noble practice
of medicine which in a future age will rival in precision the mechanical
engineering of my time. In it, too, are my hopes of the final extinction
of empiricism. Even now this method is attended with results which
must commend it to every thoughtful mind, since it is connecting itself
with those great truths which concern the human family most closely,
and is bringing into the region of physical demonstration the existence
and immortality of the soul of man, and furnishing conspicuous illustra¬
tions of the attributes of God.
FAITH VERSUS SCIENCE.
When modern thoughts and subtle systems new
And old, built up of vain Philosophy,
Hold thee within a speculative maze
(The haunt of spectres of insanity
Who peep above the hedge and through the chinks);
Or Science, with its measuring-rod severe,
Pursues thee from the holy heights of Faith,
And bids thee sit and reason on the ground—
Then fly within the sanctum of thy soul,
And meet thy Lord. Shut out the world,
Books and their teachers, teachers and their books;
Abjure them all, and hold communion pure
With Whom shall teach thee all ’tis good to know.
Nor fear to dwell in adoration there,
A convent life befits us all at times.
Too little, not too much, of grace we have,
Now that this world’s gone mad with pride and lust.
But only for a time—when thou hast drunk
Thy fill, thy Lord will send thee forth again
Into his vineyard, there His grace to shed
Upon thy fellow-workers, not so blest as thou,
In what thou knowest, seeing what thou hast seen.
Let thou thy light so shine, that they shall ask
And seek, and seeking find the way to Him.
And so His love shall spread from one to all,
And this high, holy Truth be vindicate,
That Prayer and Adoration are as real
And practical as Science, who puffs up
Her usefulness as sole and highest good.
So shalt thou humble to the dust her pride,
And bid her own her place at her Lord’s feet.
Adaaunta.
Mr. J. J. Morse in Manchester.—On Sunday next, May 9th, Mr.
Morse will deliver two trance addresses in the Temperance Hall,
Grosvenor-street, Manchester, as above. Afternoon service at 2,30;
evening at 6.30.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—The Council of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism held their usual monthly session at the
Association’s Booms, 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston, London, E., on Thursday
evening last week, 9th instant, under the presidency of Mrs. Corner.
There were present Messrs. John Bouse, Jonathan Tozeland, and Thomas
Blyton. The minutes of the last meeting of the Council were read and
confirmed. Letters of general interest were read from Mrs. Weldon and
Miss Young. Presentations were laid upon the table and accepted with
a’ vote of thanks to the respective donors, viz., Miss Ella Dietz, Mr.
Thomas Weeks, Mr. G. B. Tapp, and Mr. T. Blyton. Dr. J. M. Peebles
and Mr. W. Eglinton were proposed and elected to honorary member¬
ship ; the Bev. W. W. Newbould, Messrs. Edwin J. Davey, J. Bruce
Gillon, and Thomas J. Diss were elected ordinary members. The hon.
treasurer submitted the cash accounts, which were passed. A contribu¬
tion towards obtaining a supply of the printed “ Proceedings’’ of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, for distribution, was
ordered; and a balance on Isis Unveiled directed to stand over. The
hon. secretary reported on proceedings of the conversazione of 29th
ultimo, and submitted statement of receipts and expenses connected
therewith. Several very welcome donations were also reported, and a
special vote of thanks to the several contributors to the evening’s enter¬
tainment was unanimously passed. A letter was read from Mrs.
Everitt offering her services for a seance on Wednesday evening, the
15th instant, which was accepted with thanks.
The Annual General Meeting of the members of the British
National Association of Spiritualists will be held next Tuesday week,
at 38, Great Russell-street, London.
I Misrepresentations of Spiritualists.—Mr. Alexander Calder, in his
| presidential remarks at the last soiree of the National Association of
Spiritualists, said:—“I am happy in attending here this evening to
j listen to our able and respected friend on ‘ Some of the Difficulties of
Inquirers.’ I can have no manner of doubt that we shall be abundantly
l | edified, as well as pleased, with his treatment of this subject. It is,
indeed, a subject which bristles with difficulties. There is, however,
one very unnecessary impediment, which the inquirer sometimes un¬
fortunately meets at the threshold, creating most gratuitous repulsion
and disgust. I hope I shall be excused if I briefly refer to it on the
] present occasion. The position which I have the honour of occupying
has its duties; and one of them is to signalise anything of an outrageous
character— label, and place it among our curiosities. If I now venture upon
the performance of an unwelcome task, it will, I trust, be undertaken
without passion. When the conduct of the earliest Christians was can¬
vassed by the Pagan world, it was a common observation ‘ See how
I these Christians love one another.’ Throughout all time this beautiful
quality maintains its force. The power of love, gentleness, and good¬
ness has made, and will continue to make, myriads of converts. Well,
a distinguished American Spiritualist, now travelling homewards, will
have been able to contrast this notable sign of the earliest age of
Christendom, with his most recent personal experience, and will be able
| to remark, ‘ See how these moderns hate each other.’ Two striking
j opportunities for the dissemination of Spiritualistic truth have been
| marked with an outburst of ill-will and hatred which demand attention.
No sooner had Spiritualism obtained a hearing, in one of the largest of
the London weeklies, than a rough voice from Borne, adverse to us, was
] thrust into its pages. Was it friendly to Spiritualism ? Was it not a
] wholly unprovoked assault? Intemperate and egotistical, its chief
peculiarity was to sow dissension, by the circulation of certain state-
| ments regarding our Association. That most harmless word association
seems particularly offensive to some people, and, like a red rag to the
ox, is a perpetual terror. It has an infuriating effect on their weak nerves,
making their feeble knees shake and shiver; singular enough all from
some grim phantom of their imagination. How else can we account for
that imitation of the Boman voice in this charming bit, benevolently
| added to our knowledge, announcing ‘ that persons with the most in¬
famous characters and reprehensible principles have been elevated by a
! few into false positions to the disgrace and misrepresentation of all.'
| When such language is employed by one Spiritualist concerning
others, whose fault is a partiality to organisation, surely they, who
| are capable of such grave misrepresentation, deserve our deep com¬
passion. We grieve for the injury to the common cause, and we hang
down our heads in sorrowful silence. But it is time even these
most immaculate Spiritualists perceived that the field is wide enough for
. them and for us; and that no class of workers in it should be reviled or
contemned. It is time these aggressors abandoned their taste for intel¬
lectual dissipation, and entered upon something more wholesome. It is
time they ceased all unscientific levity and wrangling, and took to that
more profitable, though most homely work, a candid and searching
H examination into the tenor of their own steps.”
Mrs. Lord’s Mediumship.—Mr. Luther Colby, of Boston, Mass.,
has favoured us with a report of a seance with Mrs. Lord of that city.
After describing some ordinary phenomena, he says :—“ The medium
saw two spirit-children near a lady and gentleman in the circle, and
gave their names correctly, the lady saying the little ones were their
children. Then the medium said quickly, ‘ Oh, I see another little one,
smaller than the others. Why, she must have been killed, or at least
wounded, by being run over by a horse 1 ’ ‘ Yes,’ said the mother, ‘ we
have lost our three children.’ ‘ Why,’ again remarked the medium,
‘ this child has just put her hand to her head to show me where she was
hit.’ ‘ Yes,’ responded the lady, * she was hurt in the head.’ ‘ That is
a good test, isn’t it,’ said Mrs. Lord, ‘ you being entire strangers to
me ? ’ ‘ Oh, yes,’ was the response. Directly we heard a sonorous
voice in the air exclaiming, ‘And thus the noble work goes on!’ A
German gentleman present (a sceptic) received some remarkable tests.
A spirit said to him, ‘ You have something of mine.’ ‘ What is it ? *
asked the stranger. But before any reply could be made, Mrs. Lord
remarked, ‘ Oh, I see her. She has curious-looking hair; I cannot
describe it; and what lustrous eyes! ’ * Yes,’ hastily responded the
sceptic. (Oh! ’ exclaimed Mrs. L., ‘ she says she gave you a gold
locket with the imprint upon it of a foreign coin.’ ‘ Yes,’ responded the
listener. * And she also gave you a seal with a head cut on it,’ added
the medium. ‘ Yes,’ responded the gentleman, ‘ I have them upon my
watchguard at this very moment.’ As an instance of the striking
character of the phenomena to be witnessed at times in her public
sittings, on Sunday evening, April 14th, the floating and migratory lights
which so often appear in her presence took on larger dimensions than
usual, expanding to such a degree as to enable the sitters to see (and
in several instances recognise as those of friends) the faces of spirit-
visitants, surrounded by the phosphorescent glow of the shining
spherical envelope which had been parted to bring them to the plane of
apprehension by the human eye. At the same stance a young French
lady present was frequently addressed in her native tongue, and when
she replied in English the spirit-voice refused to answer in any other
than the French language. A Norwegian present was also accosted in
that tongue by one of the independent voices; indeed, at one time in
seance three languages were being spoken at one and the same instant,
viz.: Mrs. Lord was in English describing spirits seen by her near
various persons before her, while behind and at one side of her the
independent voices were conversing with friends in French and
Norwegian. The sceptic must bear in mind that this statement is not
one of irresponsible hearsay, but based upon the evidence of witnesses
residing in Boston, and who represent themselves as pleased beyond
measure with the tests thus received. Mrs. Lord has no knowledge
whatever of either the French or the Norwegian dialects.”
May 17, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Kepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of 'W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining tire author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. Is. Gd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s. .
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship'
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
farther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DA.YIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . •
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „ . •
The Seer. „ III. „ . •
The Reformer. „ lY. „ .
The Thinker. Y. „ . ...
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . - «
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. .
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . •
Death and the After-Life . . . •
History and Philosophy of Evil . . >
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man: or. Thoughts for the Age .
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) .
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . •
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers •
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse ._ .
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . .
Morning Lectures . . . • •
s. d.
. 15 o
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 O
. 7 O
. 6 0
. 7 8
. 2 0
. 3 0
. 3 0
. 7 0
. 3 0
. 7 O
. 2 0
. 3 0
. 7 0
. 0 0
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 0
. 3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . •24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The SriairuALisi Newspaper . , 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... fi
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . is
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) • • • .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Tnn. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind,; or. A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
g’anatlon of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams. Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .12
The Dervishes: or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation or the United States of America
at Constantinople, , . . , , .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... IS
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale , 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Othbb
Obsebvebs in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free le. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W. C.
Or of Messes. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Pbess.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-coneeived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which, is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.’’—
Morning Adoertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi-
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in bis preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Habbison, 38, Geeat Russell Stbeet, London. W.O.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),” ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psycography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. 0/ Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Yon
Yay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. It. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat*
kins).
HI From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation o /
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci,; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
Tbe Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens*
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
Tbe Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London: W. H. Habbison, 38, Great Russell-street.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly-gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Gxon) ’’), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863), From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubneb & Co., London.
Now Ready, Price 2s. 6d.,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
The Spibitualists’ Quabtebly, fob Afbil.
CONTENTS:—
Editob’s Addeess.
I.—Ethics of the New Age.
II.—Experiences of Astrology in India.
III. —Mystical Poetry.
IV. —Modern Materialism.
V.—Dante and Beatrice.
VI.—The Sentiment of Immortality.
VII.—A Stance with Mrs. Marshall.
VIII.—Pilgrimages in France. No. 1.—To Paray-le-Monial.
IX.—Psychography.
X.—Buddhism and Christianity.
XI.—The Miracle Land.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—IL The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part IL
X. The Spirit Child.—XL Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.’’—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV- Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin.—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
London: 38, Great Russell-street. W. H. HABRISON.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death." Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakot—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By-
Caroline A. Burse—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D .—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci, Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voles of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F R.G. S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 /or Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOB DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of "Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should he multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
ofs Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—8, Ludoate Circus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of typo, Ac., Ac,
post free, seven stamps,
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ’’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 17, 1878,
ir
^ NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE¬
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown Svo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
LORD BEAGONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT- SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases So common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, he some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means; of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ‘ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the-
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely,
inereasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
lru “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact weu known.”
BY WILLIAM H. HABBISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride's Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. ‘‘Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Fart 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whiteohapei is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years '
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.”, The Morning
Post says of The Wobolejaw Ballads r—" So one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.” '
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
JTING’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
li “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was ofie of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A
■* GENERAL LIX ATIVE AND TONIO
IN THJg VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO Blf PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The-Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit, in the natural way
n which it relieves the svstetn of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is Invaluable. It allays ■,
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.     
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays." •
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written With a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not $t all ill-natured."
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘A.p. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) '; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that, our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume."
From The British Journal of Photography.
ENO’S FRUIT , SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are,Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its. effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.” •
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.
From The Photographic News.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and i? thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the bleed free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver, complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and -it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for.
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you canmake whatever use you please.—I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
/CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without It
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. l RUE DE
LA PAIX.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself... . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order."
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our hot too ex¬
tensive comic literature. • The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-hook of an amusing
nature, will find what they want In The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions."
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many tin» «s over.. . The get-up of the book is
very handsome.” -  
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” XN.B. An
ireje member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,’’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the caver.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Pro;essor of
Chemistry, at Edinburgh University, .
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will'; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objecte: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method ana its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by-the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid's Hypnotism
—The Author’s Exiierience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S mutual
World. .
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals.— Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to. Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Cdyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and. Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experimente—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to he Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley's Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII’:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Slee
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrorision.
CHAPTER XfV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clerg
man.with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concl
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridgh ft Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Amdrew- above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lano, London, E.O.
