Registkkkd as a Newspapee.
No. 401.—(Yol. XYI.—No. 18.) LONDON: FRIDAY, APRIL 30, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HASTOVEK PLACE, EEGENT’S PABK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Boole to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING- LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red edges.
A NEW BOOK IN CONNECTION WITH SPIRITUALISM,
PSYCHIC F.ACTS,
Will be Published in a few days, containing striking selections from the writings of Ms. William Cbookes, F.R.S., Me. C. F
Vabley, F.R.S., Mb. A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., The Committee of the Dialectical Society, Pbofessob Haee, of Philadelphia,
Pbofessob Zollneb, Mb. Sebjeant Cox, Captain R. F. Bubton, and others, demonstrating the reality of the phenomena of Spiritualism.
The work will also contain some useful information for inquirers.
The Spiritualitt Branch Office, 83, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
| he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with having written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
i ' . •
Office, 33, Museum*street, London, W.O.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April SO, 1880.
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The KEY. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1868). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubneb and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND HADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Crown 8ro., pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its hearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . .His eclecticism has led him to recognize philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Rail Mall
Gazette.
London : Tbubneb and Co., Lud&ate TTtt.t,.
Price 5s. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth. Red edges. The new Book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY; OR DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Stein way Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
6, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of Ood to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored simply by
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.
Any form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (corner of Mosoow-road and
Hereford~road), Bays water, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE Any form
Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from 1
to 5 p.m., 4, Keppel-street, Russo 11-square, W.O.
pHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone- road, E&rls-court, 8.W.
A TEA MEETING and Spiritualists’
Experience Meeting, will take place at 6, Field
View, London Fields, E., on Sunday May 9th. Tea
at 5 o’clock. Tickets, which should be obtained prior
to date, Is. each.—C. R. WILLIAMS.
rno LET FURNISHED, Respect-
JL able and Healthy Apartments, overlooking the
Park. Suitable for two Gentlemen, (Friends or
Brothers), partial Board if required. Terms Moderate.
No Children. Five Minutes from Bus, Tram, or
Rail, 275, Grove Villas, Victoria Park Road, N.E.
References Required.
A BLISS ANDREWS, Letterpress,
-s\- Copperplate and Lithographic Printer, 31,
Museum Street, Bloomsbury, W.O. Three doers
from Great Bussell Street.
allegorical sketches,
jOL The Christmas No. of
“THE BETTER LIFE.”
Price la 6d.
Victoria St sax Press, 117, Praed Street, London, W.,
pHINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
\J WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled it not superseded for China,
Glass, and Eartnenware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Crawford-street, Bryans ton-square, London.
% nf yrjOgr^s of anb of jljuiphtalmm.
No. 401.—VOLUME SIXTEEN; NUMBER EIGHTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 30th, 1880.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Prick Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist :—
His Imperial Highness Ni-I Prince Eirrr.u ns Sayn Witt-
cholas op Russia, Duke of obnstbin (Wiesbaden)
Leuchtenberg Baron Yon Dirckinck-Holh-
The Lord Lindsay fkld (Holstein)
The Right Hon. the Countess! J, W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
of Caithness the Supreme Court, New York.
The Baroness Von Yay, Coun-1 The Count de Bullet
teas Wiirmbrand (Austria) The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, j M. A delberth de Bourbon
formerly American Minister at; M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
the Court of Naples Favre)
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
St. Petersburg C. F. Varley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart. St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S. M.A., (Ozon)
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq., R. Fbirse, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
F.R.G.8., J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
0. C. Massey, Esq. Epes Sargent, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
the Psychological Society of J.P.
Great Britain Dr. George Wyld
Alexander Calder, Esq., Pres- W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.,
ident of the British National M.D., Melbourne
Association of Spiritualists J. C. Luxkoorb, Esq., J.P.
Colonel H. S. Oloott, President G. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
of the Theosophical Society of H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
New York Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory C.E.
Gerald Massey, Esq. Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Traherne) j M.S. Tel. E.
Captain John James J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A*
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A. I (Cantab)
Mrs. 8. C. Hall |D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., M (Cantab)
New York T. P. Bareas, Esq., F.G.S.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., J. N. T. Marthezb, Esq.
Edinburgh Mrs. Showers
Robert S. Wyld, Esq.,LL.D. William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies, H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
D.D. John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I. India
C Blackburn, Esq., Parkfield,[William White, Esq.
Didsbury, near Manchester [Miss Florence Marry at
J. T. Marklhy, Esq. Madame Isabel db Steiger
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 33, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario. Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad. Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-plaoe, Boston,
U.S. ; Religio-Philosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear*
nay-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA AMONG- SAVAGES.
As by contact with the white man, savage
|s| races are gradually, with a few exceptions,
K| being civilised off the face of the earth, steps
| should be taken by Spiritualists in foreign
> lands to witness and record whatever psychical
phenomena may be prevalent among their
( darker brethren, before the latter are alto-
?| gether exterminated. Such phenomena may
j>i differ in degree, if not in kind, from those now
Sj prevalent in our midst; in some instances also
j I the physical section of the manifestations may
i?i be more powerful than among civilised men,
]; because of the more healthy and complete
|s! animal development of savages. Moreover, as
k! black men in their native wilds have not the
u\ fear of the opinion of the Royal Society or of
j; our Mrs. Grundy before their eyes, the spiritual
is! manifestations in their midst are sometimes
Kj allowed to multiply and develope so freely as
J?i to endow the observers with an unusual amount
|>j of experience as to their nature. For instance,
S; Canon Calloway, of Natal, in a paper read in
is I the autumn of 1872 before the Anthropological
|?J Institute, told how the son of the steward of
>| the Zulu King was suffering from a curious
is! disease. After the disorder began, he loved
K no one, and retired into secluded places; he
> first had a sensation of something creeping up
m from his fingers and toes and settling in his
is! shoulders like a great weight. The shoulders
Is! are the place where the Itongo, or control-
|?| ling spirit, is supposed to have some special
>| residence. He had horrible dreams at night,
m and was troubled by internal voices, which
| ( told him many untruths, and tried to induce
l?| him to slaughter cattle. But the Zulus around
| j him were not half so ignorant of the case as
Is! the Royal College of Physicians is about simi-
c! lar maladies. Canon Calloway says:—
His friends looking on these symptoms as indicating
!) the disease which precedes the power to divine, treated
| > | him with great gentleness and deference. The two
! c questions they had to determine between were these:
:> —1. Whether they should call in a doctor who should
Iso treat him that the power of divining might be fully
! developed in him; or 2, whether they should call in a
| doctor to lay the spirits, and restore him to his usual
health. They concluded to call in a doctor to lay the
| spirits, notwithstanding having been warned by
206
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 30, 1880.
another, that by doing so they might cause his
death.
A spirit is laid in this way. Emetics of a certain
kind are given, which they suppose have the power of
expelling from the system some matter which causes
the disease. That which is rejected is taken, mixed
with sundry medicines, and buried in an ant-heap some
distance from the kraal. They adopted this plan; and
the man was at once convulsed, and remained in con¬
vulsions for many days. They called his wife. She
insisted that they should dig up the medicine, and
went herself and destroyed the charm by opening the
place where it was buried.
Thus things remain at present. What the future
will be we cannot say. He may die of the disease; or
become insane; this, however, is said by the natives
not to be common. Or he may become a diviner. Or
if he would submit himself to proper care and treatment,
may be restored to perfect health.
The progress of u the disease which pre¬
cedes the power to divine,” or as we Spiritual¬
ists would term it “ undeveloped mediumship,”
is thus described by the Zulus:—
The person is heard singing at night. The songs are
often good; always new; so new and so good that the
whole kraal will sometimes arise and join in them. Or
he is observed to come home early in the morning, having
been wandering about the country all night, bringing
with him certain plants, which he tells them the spirits
have pointed out to him and revealed their medicinal
powers. Or he leaves his home, and wanders for an
indefinite period on the mountains and in the open
country; and comes back daubed with clay which he
says he has obtained by living for some time in a pool
with the rainbow, which the natives suppose to be an
animal; and having his body festooned with snakes.
After a time he declares himself to be diviner ; and his
friends put his powers to the test by concealing things
which he has to detect by his clairvoyant ability. If
he succeeds his fame is spread abroad among the people,
and they are called to be witnesses of his power. They
send him away into the bush, and hide all kinds of
things in all kinds of places. He returns, and if he
finds them, or the majority of them, he is declared to
be a diviner by acclamation.
Here again is an example how little Zulu
boys, like Theosophists, try to develope the
powers of their own spirits :—
It is said that when boys are herding cattle they often
leave them to join others in a game of play. Hence it
often happens when they return towards evening
several of the herd are missing; they sometimes
search here, there, and everywhere they can think of
to no purpose. They then agree to sit down and
abstract themselves from external things. Whilst thus
abstracted an intimation arises within them or one of
them that the cattle are in such a place; and the faith
in the truth of the intimation is so strong, and the im¬
pulse to go to the place so irresistible, that the subject
of it arises and runs off full speed to the place and finds
the cattle. It is said that it is not every boy that has
the power; some have it more than others ; some never Kj
have it at all; others on the contrary have it so strong j;!
and clear that they are soon looked up to by their Icj
fellows who follow them with the same confidence as a Ki
pack of dogs will the yelp of some well-known hound i)i
when he has taken up the scent.
Direct voice manifestations are known among !<i
the ZuluSj also the carriage of solid objects |^i
Kj from place to place by spirits. The voice
j<l manifestations are obtained in the light; the
sitters squat on the floor of the hut, and either
j;j evolve psychic force or promote harmony by
jsj beating the ground with the palms of their
<] hands.
A paper by Dr. A. P. Eeid, of Dalhousie
I University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, read before
the Anthropological Institute, in April, 1873,
narrated how a Santeux Indian could obtain
the Davenport manifestations. The name of
the gentleman was Caugh-ske-kaw-bunk, sig¬
nifying “ The rays of light before the sun ap¬
pears on the horizon.” He bore the character
among his brethren of being “ a great old
■ rascal,” but Dr. Eeid found nothing amiss with
j him. Dr. Reid says :—
j He was to the Great Spirit as twilight to daylight,—
i in fact, a “ medicine man.” He had fasted a long
j period ; I did not find out how long. He was extremely
I modest, and said but little of what he could do ; but
j from the half-breeds I learnt that he had accomplished
I a greater feat than the Davenport brothers of a few
j years ago, though similar in kind. He might be tied
j up with cords in any way, and then [rolled up in a
i thirty-fathom net, placed in the medicine-tent alone,
and closely concealed. In a short time, cords, net,
i and all, would be thrown out without a knot untied,
j and he would appear in a state of profuse perspiration.
During the time he was in the tent it was surrounded
j by the Indians at a little distance, who kept up a great
j tumult, beating sticks, kettles, anything to make a
noise, for, by that means, they induced the spirits to
come to the aid of the medicine man; others say, to
keep the evil spirits off while the good spirits got him
disentangled. This is a feat that, on the testimony of
j the half-breeds, several of their medicine men have
performed.
Another Santeux Indian was a drunkard of
the name of Co-se-kan-eh-kway-kaw-po, sig¬
nifying “ The man who, standing up, his head
reaches The heaven or sky.” He fasted for
eight days, at which the Great Spirit was so
pleased that he told him that in the future life
he should rule over the tract of country
bounded by Lake Winnipeg on the East, and
the Lakes Manitoba and Winnepegoos, on the
West; about 200 miles long by from 25 to 58
wide. The old man firmly believed in his
destiny, so bore the ills of this life uncom¬
plainingly.
The psychology of savage races is a field of
research at present almost entirely unexplored,
and the duty devolves upon Spiritualists who
can gain facilities for observation, to utilise the
opportunity before it is too late. Savages re¬
present mankind in its childhood, and although
we have no written records of the thoughts of
prehistoric man, those of the savages of to-day
may give us some idea how the first religions
were evolved among our early forefathers.
April 30, 1880. THE S P I
Geological, archaeological and other branches
of research, present no evidence that man has
descended from a higher stage of civilization.
Taking the written history of our own country,
the farther we go back the more uncivilised
were we, and the barbaric state of the
inhabitants of these Islands when the Romans
first landed here, is a matter of record. The
bone implements, flint arrow-heads and stone
hammers of earlier times, indicate no fabled
golden age, buk days when unclean savages
prowled over the face of the land. There is
no probability that a prehistoric telephone will
ever be brought to light by excavations in the
ancient palaces of Assyria or Egypt, or that a
phonograph will be dug out by Sir John Lub¬
bock, at Arbor Lowe. Something, however,
of the general state of man in his earlier stages
of development, may be inferred from the
habits, thoughts, and Spiritualism of modem
savages and modern barbarians. Future
spiritualistic meetings dealing with the psy¬
chology and religion of such ancestors, will re¬
cognise no imaginary race of prehistoric men
who were all sweetness and light, but the re¬
cords of their proceedings are more likely to set
forth that of
Filthy people,
Flat-headed, wide-mouthed they spake,
How they sit round their fires and jabber,
And shriek o’er the fish they bake.
A VOICE FROM OUTSIDE LAODIOEA.
The tender unproselytising and consequently
purely modem sentiment, as spiritually viewed,
conveyed in the graceful lines quoted by “A
Yoice from Laodicea,” in The Spiritualist of
April 9th—
“ Leave thou thy sister when she prays,
Her early Heaven, her happy views,
Nor thou with shadow’d hint confuse,
A life that leads melodious days ”—
Can be frankly and heartily endorsed by
Spiritualists, because it is an idea special to
modern Spiritualism, which has already set its
mark of tolerance on the world; regarding
too, as it ever does, good deeds above views,
even though they should be happy views.
More, we could almost envy our sister her
happy views, and almost wish that nothing
had come in the way of clinging to the like
ourselves, were it not that we have got into
the habit of questioning whether “ happy
views ” may not too often be mixed up with
vicarious excellence, rather than confined to
real and personal excellence. The possible,
not to say probable, fallacy and worthlessness
of the former of which, certain rude spiritual
RITUALIST. 207
W shocks may have convinced us of, and so set
s | our footsteps in another direction ; though we
h may still have, like earlier pilgrims, a pleasant
| memory of the flesh-pots of Egypt, and would
>| not even rob those who still retain them. We
Sj know that we have a work to accomplish, a
<| journey, perhaps a long one, towards a
)\ promised land, in a new direction, and a
)j thorny, though not a barren road.
Modern Spiritualism is not a bed of roses ;
<| it is the characteristic, however, of every new
>| spiritual influence to make its advocates
jj victims in one way or another, and we all cry
s| with one accord: “If in this life only we
cj have hope, we are of all men most miserable.”
?| And when we ponder with pain over our
>! anomalies, we are led sorrowfully, but still
Sj hopefully, to contemplate earlier phases of
<j spiritual influx, and then we cannot but
?j notice their shortcomings also. And one
>| thing we can safely affirm, which is this,
sj that nothing in modern Spiritualism of general
a evil has come up in any degree to the disastrous
?! effects of the wide-spread immorality produced
>j by the socialism which was general 1800
sj years ago, and which was the immediate con-
<j sequence of a previous spiritual influx of a
?! like nature to our own.
So then, as in relation to their case many
Sj gross extravagancies have been at length
si outlived, we hope as regards the early effects
?| of our own newer influx, that our lesser
S! irregularities and misfortunes may be sooner
sj extirpated than theirs have been.
“A Yoice fromLaodicea ” asks the follow-
?! ingquestion: “ If Spiritualism were generally
Sj received, do you think that the world would
sj be the better for it?” I will answer this
s] question thus : However it might be while
?| men remained in this world, at any rate when
?j they died they would be less likely under
sj Spiritualism, than they are now, to find that
c] they had been building castles in the air, and
?j less likely to realise the conclusion that
?j “ happy views ” may be very false expectations
s| indeed.
Differently as Spiritualists may be led to
>| think in regard to details, like other people,
| there is one point on which there is no dissent,
sj which is this, that hopes grounded on vicarious
i assumption, the most ordinary of “happy
?| views ” are, to say the least, most untrust-
?j worthy.
Is it not sickening to read, as we often do,
a manifestoes from murderers, felons of the worst
?1 description, holding forth, not that they hope,
> j though about to die, still to live down evil, as
208
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 30, 1880.
Spiritualism would teach them, hut that by j
“happy views” they are already made fit !
company for angels and saints of light, whom !
they, who reeked with every abomination a |i
month before, are about to join as soon as ever |s
the drop will permit them ? While the said k
manifesto will also imply that if the murderer j>
had not crowned a life of crime by an especial K
act of atrocity, he never could have been k
among the blessed. If modern Spiritualism \)
had only by its knowledge, registered a protest j;
against such a gross but common perversion Is
of natural law as this, it would be notable for k
a great and good work, and this protest it U
universally and emphatically makes from every l|
quarter.
Again, I need hardly say that Spiritualism k
has long since settled an old moot point in j?
theology, through knowledge, as to whether i)
“ To day shall thou be with me in Paradise,” is
“Pool, this night shall thy soul be required R
of thee,” is to be the rule of the destiny of j>
our immediate future, or whether we are all $
to sleep till the last trump, whatever that s
may be. Spiritualism has, I say, long since u
settled the question in favour of the former j
teaching, and we now do not hear, as we did j)
many years back, long wearisome homilies is
upholding the latter view.
So it is now not only notorious felons, but b
common-place people eo ough also, who under the i S
influence of “ happy views,” combined with K
the leaven of Spiritualistic teaching that has
crept in among them, shewing that we shall
not all or any sleep till a last trump, who Is
arrogate to themselves the assurance of ever- |<
lasting bliss from the moment that they have <
“ shuffled off this mortal coil.”
How I find, from my personal experience, j>
that persons knowing my Spiritualistic bent, K
make this gaining of Heaven at a burst, their k
standing-point against me. Modern Spirit- i)
ualism, which implies attainment by growth |s
and personal fitness, they plainly denote to K
be of “ the devil.” For their part they know k
their failings are great, but they nevertheless j>
rejoice in a happy faith which gives them o
assurance, certainty in fact, of going straight |<
to Heaven on dying. Such are their “ happy |i
views,” and such the language of my friends j)
when living. I think they have entered into |)
a cabal to assail me in this way, in order to j<
show me my weak point, and at the same time u
their strong point.
How it so happens—and I enter on this Is
subject with a sense of awe and responsibility |
mingled with grief, though with grief comes [<j|
joy in their future progress and mine—it so
happens, then, that being gifted by what is
called a sixth sense, that is a power of seeing
and hearing persons in fluidic life, it so happens,
I say, that these very persons who have as¬
sailed me with their prepotency when living,
invariably come to me when dead, to tell a
different tale. They come to me, waking me
from my sleep, to tell me of their griefs and
disappointments. I do nothing to call them,
but I pray for them, when they do come so
unmistakably to demonstrate that they have
not yet attained the happiness that “happy
views ” had so confidently anticipated.
I cannot help this, I did not ask for this
gift, but it came spontaneously, and I take
care to say nothing about it to those around
me, and least of all to the family doctor; and
I only tell it to you, gentle readers, sub rosd,
for even some of you will shrug your shoulders
at it, because you have no experience of it
yourselves. Several years ago, spending the
evening with a family that I had met in
society, I was asked if I believed in Spirit¬
ualism. “0 dear, no!” I said * “Faraday
has disproved that. It all comes of the uncon¬
scious action of the muscles of the hand; he
says so, and what is more he has proved it.”
Before I left the house, I was of a different
opinion; a young lady of the family was a
medium of the highest calibre. I went to
this house once or twice again, but soon left
the town where it occurred, and did not go to
another seance for years. But, it was only
a short time after this first stance that these
audient and voyant powers came upon me so
decidedly, before I had read anything in
favour of Spiritualism at all, or knew about
its details. Certainly these new and unexpected
gifts, which had only been but shadowed forth
on previous occasions, much surprised me,
for I did not seek them * though, if I had
sought them, I could then, as now, have seen
nothing wrong in so doing ; I should only
have been following the example of Jesus.
Moses believed in the return of the dead to
earth, but forbade their invocation for purposes
of polity; but Jesus opened up communion
with the dead by invoking that very Moses
who had forbidden it, and this at a stance with
chosen disciples. New things succeeded the old.
The very opinions quoted in a “ Voice from
Laodicea,” against modern Spiritualism, are
bathed in Spiritualism themselves. Where
would be found the tolerance for those who
differ in religious thought in our more ancient
Spiritual literature, even among its happiest
April 30, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
209
views ? There is no rule laid down of hatred
in modern Spiritualism, for those who differ
from us. The Bourgeois gentleman of Moli&re
had been talking prose all his life without
being aware of it; and the youths of the
present day have inherited, unwittingly, so
much of a tolerant, kindly spirit, brought
about by the unseen leaven of Spiritualism
running through the whole present generation,
that they sometimes write or think in the
pure spiritualistic groove, even when they
imagine they are hurling sharp shafts against
it, as in the instance before us.;
But when we come, in the same article, to a
most overwhelming paradox, which actually
seeks to connect the universe, the very arche¬
type of order, with the idea of “folly and
purposelessness accentuated,” for no other
object than just to cast a passing stone at
Spiritualism, * we find no Spiritualism or
common sense ;jn that, though there may be
some of the former of a certain kind, but
something else that we do not like to name;
and we can confidently affirm that no such
idea has ever before appeared in any document
ancient or modem by one, who gave heed to
his tongue, or whose brain put judgment into
his pen. The writer asks “ If Spiritualism
with all its present extravagance, grotesque¬
ness, absurdity, could at once gain the ad¬
herence of the world, do you think that the
world would be the better for it? Will its
most fanatical supporters answer in the affir¬
mative ? ” He might as well ask, “Was the
world the better for some of the early Christian
socialism, or for all the hideous anomalies that
have since deformed Christianity?” No,
certainly not, and yet the good of Christianity
has lived and prevailed. And Spiritualism
will live, and prevail when it has ripened.
Then the writer goes on to his extraordinary
attitude: he says, “ At the best, we should
gain a more or less distinct perception of an
universe, which seems but an enlarged
edition of this (sic) with the folly and purpose*
lessness somewhat more accentuated.” I feel
sure that the author of those words feels already
sorry for having written hastily anything so
unwise. Again, the “happier views” which
“ A Yoice from Laodicea” puts in opposition
to Spiritualism, assume this advantage over
the latter, inasmuch as they possess “one
faith and one morality.” Indeed! What “ one
faith?” The faith of Luther or that of
Ignatius Loyola ? Or does he point to the
Turkish soldier, with a smile of contempt on
his countenance, and a sword in his hand,
|| keeping the contemptible squabbles of holy
I week in the holy city of the different mem-
| hers of the “ one faith,” from breaking into
| blows. Would he point to the one faith of
| our own country ? And what one morality ?
I Is it the morality of pious fraudulent
I bankers, buoyed up with the happy view of
| imputed righteousness, robbing the widow and
i the’orphan ? or the morality of inquisitors,
Elizabethan, Jacobite, Spanish, or those hailing
even from Salem in the United States, burning
good men and women alive, and all from “ happy
views ? ” If so, then, better the morality of
the Fijian, who eats his grandmother, whilst the
latter, as Lord Pembroke tells us, having per¬
fect faith in happy views of a happy future,
goes jubilantly to the slaughter, as her own
<,1 grandmother did before her, when old age and
?j infirmities had rendered her life a burden.
j| Better this, I say, though it be but bad. And
s| better the morality of the Alpache Indian, who,
l\ (living by fraud and rapine of his neighbours,
>j who kill him in turn, when they can catch
)j him), is like the Jews, faithful to his own
sj people, and whips his children when they lie
<| and steal at home.
Having set us in the lines of faith and
morality, the “Yoice from Laodicea” kindly
tells us that we are free to choose between a
dozen systems, five of which he considerately
>| selects for our choice. There is Theosophy,
S| Christian Spiritualism, Beincarn ationalism,
51 Comprehensionalism, and Harmonial Philos-
I ophy. Christian Spiritualists and Beincar-
>1 nationists are alike in believing in the com-
S munion with spirits; and they both have
< their highest authority from Christ, for
[| believing also in the right of man to hold com¬
munication with the dead, and both believe
that they have the power to do so, which is
the very nucleus of their faith. Theosophy
thinks that they have not that power, or at
;j any rate only in very rare instances. Rein-
si carnationists are like Christian Spiritualists
11 in this also, that they call themselves
|| “ Brothers in Christ.” Beyond this, the
>| former believes in pre-existence and reincar¬
nation, which were both taught by Christ.
The object of the Harmonial Philosophy is,
11 I believe, an effort to bring science and
>| religion into accord. This was also the
)] endeavour of the late much-lamented Serjeant
1! Cox, not an undesirable aspiration in these
I days ; while Comprehensionalism may, I
I suppose, comprehend much that is difficult to
| comprehend, perhaps the assumption of talent,
(i without talent in the assumption.
210
THE 8PIEI
And now let me show how thoroughly I am K
in accord with the idea of leaving others to k
their “happy views,” even though I may j?
differ, from them, fully believing that it is not j>
views which fit us for after life, hut deeds. |s
I would not, then, quench the smoking flax, k
let the fire he lighted from whatever source it |?
may. All I contend is that this toleration is |>
a modern phase, a purely modern Spiritualistic ;S
phase, and I trust a happy view.
Let me tell of an incident in my life, which |>
I would not drag from its privacy were it not D
so strictly in accord with what I have said. |s
I have had the pleasure of meeting the spirit, |<
John King, at seances, perhaps a dozen times \)
in as many years. I knew him first and con- j)
versed with him at the Marshalls’, and I have K
never since found any difference in either his K
voice or his idiosyncrasy; and he always j<
recognises me very kindly as an old acquaint- j;
ance, however long a time may have elapsed js
between the seances where we have met. Some jc
nine or ten years ago, when the spirit of \)
proselytism was not so weaned in me as it is K
at present by Spiritualism, I remarked at a j<
seance to John King, how I regretted that u
one very dear to me, whom I named, disliked j)
Spiritualism. What was the prompt reply of j)
John King? These were his words. Naming K
the person in question, he said, “ She is a |<
dear good woman, don’t you force her.” P
Neither John King, nor anyone else ever j>
spoke truer words than those contained in the |s
first part of that sentence. And was there not U
a really spiritual lesson of toleration, not to be j;
found among “ happy views,” hut which I K
claim as a sterling characteristic of modern R
Spiritualism, in the second? If John King R
had been a man in the flesh, I should have |>
been surprised at his knowledge, for the R
person in question lived far away, and was R
never at a seance in her life: more, I believe she I <
would die rather than go to one. The subject R
of Spiritualism has been, since that speech of j>
John King, a sealed subject in my house as R
far as I am concerned. So I trust I have R
shown that I am in full accord with the second |;
stanza quoted by “A Yoice from Laodicea,” R
as I was with the first.
“ Her faith, thro’ form is pure as thine,
Her hands are quicker unto good ;
Oh, sacred be the flesh and blood,
To which she links a truth divine.” R
An Old Spiritualist. I<
General Showers, the medial powers of whose
daughter are so widely celebrated, has arrived in
England, from India.
T U A L I S T. April 30, 1880.
SPIRITUALISM IN DISTANT LANDS.
A correspondent writes us from British
Columbia, March 27th, 1880, concerning the
spiritual manifestations obtained in his home
circle :—“ We have the room lighted up occa¬
sionally, and lights like forked lightning
dancing about the room, also flickering stars,
but we cannot progress farther. I wish we knew
what to do. It is really curious to mark how
this belief is permeating all regions. Fancy
sitting at a stance in Behring’s Strait; it makes
one shiver, for it is as cold here now as
ordinary arctic weather. This place has been
extolled for its* lovely climate, but this year
the glacial period has set in. My friend,
Capt. who is looking out of the window
at this moment, declares it is blowing a gale,
and that it is hailing, snowing and raining so
that he cannot see across the road.”
ASTROLOGY.
BY C. 0. MASSEY.
I should like to supplement the reference to
planetary positions in the nativities of insane
persons, which I gave last week from Urania,
by a few simple calculations which will bring
out the full significance of the facts. Before
doing so, however, I must again premise, by
way of caution, that the collection is only
valuable on the assumption that the writer in
the University Magazine has given all the
cases he can obtain of distinguished individuals
so afflicted, whose birthdays are known, and
has not merely made a selection of cases con¬
formable to astrological rules. A fallacy which
would imply ignorance or neglect of the most
elementary principle of induction and common
sense is not probable in a disinterested writer
apparently of education and intelligence; the
list is taken from a class itself certainly small,
and my biographical memory, at least, does
not supply any omissions. It is, however, a
pity that the writer has not explicitly stated
that his list is exhaustive. I speak rather
feelingly on the subject, having been con¬
stantly irritated in my astrological studies by
“ illustrative cases ” which are of course ab¬
solutely worthless when what is wanted is a
valid induction.
Having gone again, and more carefully,
through the list, I find out of the nineteen
cases of sovereigns and men of genius, sixteen
in which the planet Mercury is afflicted by ill
aspect, zodiacally, at noon of the day of birth,
by one or other of the “infortunes,” Saturn,
Mars, and Uranus. In five cases he is afflicted
by two of them. In nine cases the Moon was
April 30, 1880. THE S P I E
afflicted at noon, and as her altered positions in
the zodiac at the respective times of birth would
be as likely to add to this number as to
diminish it, we may say that in nine cases out
of nineteen the Moon was afflicted at birth. I
have taken the range of application at 5Q on
either side of the exact aspect, that is to say,
including the exact, or “ partile ” aspects, at
119 for each aspect. The minor aspects, semi¬
square, sesquiquadrate, &c., I neglect. What,
now, are the chances without reference to an
ephemeris, that at any given moment (1) the
Moon or Mercury (taken separately, not alter¬
natively) will be afflicted by ill aspect of one
or more of the three malefics, or infortunes,
Saturn, Mars, or Uranus ? (2) that either of
the former (taken separately) will be afflicted
by two (or more) of the latter ? There are
360? in the zodiac, and four bad aspects, viz.,
conjunction, opposition, and two squares of 11°
each=44. So that the chance of Mercury (or
the Moon) being afflicted by, say, Saturn is
geo or the chances against it are 316 to 44, or
rather more than 7 to 1. But as there are
three infortunes, any one of which being found
within those 44° would afflict, we get a chance
of rather more than 2 to 1 against affliction by
either, alternatively. This would represent
an average of less than 7 cases in the 19, in
which we should expect to find Mercury
afflicted. We find him so in fact in 16 cases,
and the Moon in 9. The chance of a double
affliction—Mercury in ill aspect to two or all
of the malefics—I find to be rather less than 1
in 24, or rather more than 23 to 1 against it.
Yet out of 19 cases in all, we have 5 of this
double affliction. The above appears to me to
be the proper method of proceeding in calcu¬
lating the chances.' A friend has suggested
that I ought to take the number of days in the
year in which Mercury is in ill aspect to either
of the three malefics. The verification of the
chances computed above would give him one
third of the year, or about 120 days of afflic¬
tion. During the present year he has 129
such days, on which, at noon, he is not more
than 59 distant from conjunction, square or
opposition, of one or other of the three planets
in question. The difference is not material,
and would certainly be rectified in an average
of years.
Suppose now, I could be supplied with the
birthdays (giving of course the years) of 10
persons who have become insane, to the know¬
ledge of any of your readers, (I should request
an assurance that the dates were sent without
previous consultation of an ephemeris, and
ITU AL 1ST. 211
Ii therefore without any intention to Confirm or
| discredit the astrological rule), if the results
| found by the writer in the University Magazine
| are accidental, I should expect that of the 10
I new cases, in only 3 or 4 would Mercury be
I zodiacally afflicted. If, on the other hand,
! there is a true connection between insanity
| and those positions, I should expect to find
| the proportion shown in the above cases to be
| maintained in the new ones, which should
i yield 8 cases of affliction. If that were so,
| surely only blind and stupid prejudice could
I dispute the cogent force of such a fact, though
| further confirmation might well be demanded.
Temple, April 26th, 1880.
? SOME OF THE EELIGHOUS ASPECTS OF
SPIRITUALISM.*
)| BY ISABEL DE STEIGER.
I feel it would be so presumptuous of me
h to venture to say anything on this subject,
/j as it has been recently treated in so admirable
)| a manner by various minds, in this very
sj room, as well as particularly in the remark-
(| able papers by Mr. Wm. Oxley in The Medium
?| and Daybreak, that had it not been allotted to
)| me by our friend Mr. Stanton Moses, I feel I
Ij would willingly have refused the task.
I trust therefore that you will kindly forgive
I me if I am unable to suggest anything new to
| you, for I cannot but feel that I am now
I addressing myself to high intelligences, who
I not only have thought much in the past on
I these things, but who are still, like one in old
! times, 11 pondering them daily in their hearts.,,
However, to address myself to my subject,
j May I say what appears to me, that like a
I “ wicked and perverse generation,” as we are,
>| we are still too much occupied in searching after
s| “ signs,” and that our Spiritualism has dealt
<| chiefly in the outward and visible manifestation
}\ of Spirit; therefore, the reproach that is cast
S| upon us, that although we call ourselves
<| Spiritualists, we are often anything but
?| spiritual, is not without foundation.
The reason for this is, that we are begin-
vj ning at the wrong end, in our desire to be
51 further acquainted with this most trans-
J cendent subject.
Prom spiritual sources we learn that man-
>| kind was not always what it is now; and that
sj before the known or rather unknown history
jj of the Man of Genesis in our Bible and other
)j Bibles, in an anterior race there were sons of
j God on the earth; that is, the spirit of man
! was at one with the spirit of Nature, with the
> I * A paper read before the National Association of Spiritualists,
’i April 12th, 1880.
212
T E SPIRITUALIST.
April 30, 1880.
Creator tod Factor of tlie Universe, that
therefore man’s spirit was not as now hidden
and powerless* in the body.
The symbolical teaching of the Yedas in
the East, the Eddas of the North, the sacred
writings of our own and other nations,
all point to the same idea. In this, the
fabled Grolden Age, I firmly believe. How¬
ever, all we can ever surmise of that far off
age is that mankind did not live as they do
now, separated from their spirits; we know
nothing more, for we have only faint echoes
of sounds long passed away, and but dim
visions of that remote age; but strange to say,
these echoes are beginning to sound more
clearly, and these visions are becoming
brighter, for as one cycle after another has
passed away, and as all eternity revolves in
infinite circles, so is the time coming when
this mysterious age will be revealed to us,
and the records of the past will be born again
in the history of the future.
As has been truly said, this is “an age of
resuscitation ” in many things—literature,
art, and highest and best of all, in religion.
Nothing can, however, be born again in
exactly the same guise; it must take on
the conditions of whatever age it lives in.
Now, what in fact means religion, and
what is the real signification of this very
potent word ? I do not need to be told that
it comes from the Latin “ to bind,” neither
that it may mean certain “ doctrines taught
by either Christ or Buddha,” or it may mean
a u ceremonial, involving an organised priest¬
hood, and a machinery of sacred things and
places; ” or it may mean u a body of precepts
or code of rules intended to guide human
conduct,” as in this sentence—“ Pure religion
and undefiled before God and the Father is
this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their
affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from
the world.” It does imply all this, and also
more. Something wider, for its means, in its
essence, the unity of all nations. In its di¬
versified developments throughout the world,
from all known historic times, it has meant
also the desire for the understanding of those
mysteries revealed through nature to the ex¬
terior senses of man.
This has been the object of all known
religions, the one grand simultaneous impulse of
man to find out what he is, whence he comes,
and where he goes.
Man does know, though he does not always
will to know it, that he is not flesh alone, and
this exhaustless idea has exercised him for its
solution ever since his spiritual faculties were
closed at his so-called “fall,” at the time of
the birth of the new man, symbolised by the
story [in Genesis of the temptation and fall
of man. Countless ages ago, the event may
have taken place when man was left alone oh
the earth, “to work out his own salvation,” to
recover the powers and to rebind again his one
spirit within him.
Before the advent of this inferior spiritless
race, the sons of God needed no teachers, as
they have done since. They were purely
receptive to spirit; they were beings incar¬
nated in perfect forms, unsullied temples of
holy spirits, divinely expressed thoughts of
the Ineffable One, they were in themselves
divine. Now arises the question, if this were
the case, how could such a state of things
alter ? What means therefore the mystery of
the fall of man ? In short, how comes it that
we are what we are ? Herein is a mystery ;
that is—for the present all this knowledge is
hidden from us ; but as soon as we are able to
receive it we shall each of us understand it.
At present all we know is, that once upon a
time man was one with his Creator, and that
though existing in matter, in obedience to
the inconceivable and inexorable laws of
nature, matter then took its right place, being
subordinate and obedient to spirit. Then
comes one pregnant hint, one little link. We
are told in our Bibles that the sons of God
saw that the daughters of men were fair.
This is a hint of a middle time in those archaic
ages. The various Bibles of the world have
also obscure hints that point to the same idea.
Then we have visions of a warfare, the sons of
God beginning to be at variance with their
Father and our history then begins. The
marvellous and supposed imaginings of the
ancient mythologies, the magnificent ideas
buried in Indian, Egyptian, Greek religions,
all date in their origin from memories of the
past, when only with their faint memories
remaining, man bereft of the powers of his
spirit, alone with nature, is powerless over
matter ; he sees only with his outward bodily
senses, and henceforth from the sun, moon,
stars, light and darkness, thunder-storms and
drought, all the forces of nature are mysterious
to him, and what he does not understand,
he fears, and what he fears he begins to
worship.
Now here I shall be told that I am forgetting
the great scientific theory of the day that man,
like everything else, was slowly evolved from
the smallest inconceivable atom; that we are
213
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aprh, 30, 1880.
all the same in origin, and that though it is |
called the u descent of man,” in reality accord- j
ing even to science, we have not descended but
ascended. To this theory of the evolution of j
matter I have nothing of course to say. I can \
only quote a passage from one of the essays of j
the late Professor Clitford, whose materialistic |
views are well known. Professor Clifford him- j
self however quotes and endorses words of |
Professor Tyndall from his Fragments, vol. ii. I
t( If you ask Science whence is matter, and j
who or what divided it into molecules and im- j
posed upon them this necessity of running into |
organic forms, he has no answer. Science is j
mute in reply to such questions, hut if the j
materialist is confounded, and Science is j
rendered dumb, who else is prepared for an |
answer? Let us lower our heads and ac- I
knowledge our ignorance, priest, philosopher j
and all.” These are Tyndall’s words. May j
I not say that we Spiritualists are not lowering j;
our heads; that on the contrary we are looking j1
up, and our ignorance is vanishing as we watch j<
for the light that is surely coining ?
So much for the certainty of science, for
scientific men only deal with matter; they |j
ignore spirit. It may be however that the K
anterior race of man consisted of beings of slow |S
creation, and from molecules they became man; |;
it all may be so, but in framing these theories js
we are all too forgetful that there is no such j<
thing as time with the infinite, and man may j)
have gone through many other changes than j)
simple development from apes. And here again K
science is changing its recent views. I feel I R
must apply the neuter particle—is—to the R
science of the day; dealing only with matter ij
it is powerless to understand its elements, the I
masculine and feminine powers united in one. H
Wisdom is feminine and power is masculine, j<
and neither of these qualities are as yet united |j
in science; so neuter it remains, now destroying
religion and not always enlightening mankind. j<
Its recent views therefore as set forth by Pro-
fessor Virchow, of Berlin, and which I find
quoted and endorsed by Professor Clifford, |<
are—“ These are parts of the evolution theory k
which are not yet established doctrines, in the R
sense that they ought to be taught dogmatically )
in schools; they are but problems; we may think | j
it ever so probable that living matter has been |<
formed out of non-living, and that man has |
descended from an ape-like ancestor; we may |j
fully expect that evidence will shortly be forth- Is
coming to established these statements, but k
meanwhile we must not teach them as scientific i>
facts.’* Is
These teachers are honourable and to be re¬
spected, but it is grievous that while men are
hungering and thirsting for knowledge, their
leaders can give them nothing but theories
which from time to time happily they alter,
and which they must always alter as long as
they deal with one side of nature.
Now however, to return to our primeval
man—the one whom we may suppose him to
resemble, the man of Milton in speaking of his
Adamites—
“ In their looks divine,
The image of their glorious Maker shine.”
Then reigned man on the earth—an incon¬
ceivable degree removed from this supposed
obscure origin, even as he now is. Nothing
stands still, but all moves on for ever in its
progression, and in also its apparent retro¬
gression, for as time evolves in its grand circles,
it touches now and then some point which
seems to be for the time descension, but the
ascending point is again reached, and history
seems coming to the period when the resur¬
rection of spirit is again due and at hand.
Men’s spirits are once more beginning to strain
the bonds of matter, and are inspiring their
reasons with divine powers, so the longing for
wisdom and truth is the cry from all.
It has been a weary lethargy in the history
of mankind while our spirits have been sleep¬
ing ; but we have not been left quite desolate
and alone through this long period of gloom.
To begin with, every nation has had some
memory of the past left in some receptive mind;
and each nation as it sunk or rose in its
material life morally and physically, has
evolved from these memories a religion. But
in a short paper such as this, even were I
competent, winch I am not, there is no time to
go into the vexed question of the relative
merits of each development of religion or
spirit power which is known on earth. Each
in reality was given by the Infinite, or rather
of necessity evolved itself from its own sources,
and was therefore most suitable to the time
and people, country and climate, for the time
being. In some countries the relics and tradi¬
tion of the past were not so feeble and dim in
others, and also from time to time, when there
was sufficient spirit force gathered together
on earth once more, so as to be receptive to
spirit, some great medium was chosen, and
some great incarnated spirit, one made wise
through the experience of the necessary time,
one generated perhaps in the golden age itself,
has returned to earth once more; and in his
last incarnation on this planet, he has done
214
THE SPIRITUALIST. April 30. 1880.
the great 'work of coming to be a Saviour and R|
Helper—a messenger from the spirit world |?|
to captive man. His spirit being free, he has jjj
groaned to see the same force in fetters. These m
messengers have been the only supports of 1(1
man, and have been those through whose in- |H
fluence man has been saved from falling into j)
the slough of matter, for spirit, though it is 1)1
not perishable, can change places and be lost to
the earth. It was to keep spirit in the earth,
to remind man of the past and to point to the
future, that these great lights have come.
Each influx of spirit power has not however
left a corresponding rise in spirit power in
man. Partial glimpses have been mistaken
for whole revelations, and the slowly awaken¬
ing powers of man have led him, and still
lead him into strange mistakes. u A little
knowledge pufleth up,’’ and that may be truly
said of us, for as our knowledge of material
things has greatly increased without our un¬
derstanding their spiritual counterparts, we
are not at all what we ought to be. The
so-called religious people of the world have
occupied their time throughout history in
quarrelling over their various ideas respecting
the utterances of their teachers, and with the
so-called “ non-religious ” world. The latter
not having the faculty of faith, denied every¬
thing not exactly answering to the require¬
ments of their five senses, none of which
being appealed to in any religion, they denied
all. Between these two, the over-faithful and
the’under-faithful, there have been ever some
who have steered clear of both shoals; they
have been called Atheists by those who only
believed in their own Saviour, and they have
been called dreamers by those who believed in
none. These have always taught that no one
Saviour was the only emanation of God, still
less the Deity Himself, as we Christians do.
Had these voices been listened to, our various
forms of religion would not have—as they all
have—lost so much of their original light as
to have settled down upon ns to the clouding
of our reasons, and alas, to our spiritual
dishonor.
To be before one’s time in spiritual matters
is, as in material things, “ not to be under¬
stated of by the people.” A truth stated
out of season, that is, when all men’s minds
are not receptive to that truth, is as a lie; by
and bye the world progresses; men grow
up to the same plane of comprehension and lo!
that man who told that lie is as a prophet,
and the men of the time who believed that lie
are thought the only wise men of that past time.
So it is now ; and those who read the signs
of the times, see the same thing coming.
The great ones of the earth,however, have not
in spite of all this trouble and confusion,
come in vain. The amount of spirit now in¬
carnated in man is becoming brighter and
stronger. It once burned, then waned, but it
did not die, and it will burn once more.
It may, however, seem to some of us that
progression can only be applied as being ex¬
emplified in western nations, but I think
we forget that riches and luxury, also
machinery, railways, steamboats, crowded and
gilded cities, do not exclusively bring blessing
and prosperity in their path, or enshrine them
in their midst. Ho! Sickness, misery, despair
cruelty, wars, death, exist here as freely as
over there. Money, on the contrary, is our
God, and the want of it our Devil. Is pro¬
gression then perfect in the West ? Let
any one read a paper headed “A Turkish
Effendi on Christendom and Islam ” in the
last Ho. of The Theosophist, and he cannot fail
to see that to some eyes at least, material and
spiritual progression do not go hand in hand.
Indeed, in the a heathen East,” as we have
falsely called it, there are some minds calmly
abiding their time, waiting for kindred thinkers
in the West to stretch out their hands of
brotherhood and say, “In the eyes of the
Infinite we are all His sons.”
There is one chosen race among men and
only one, and that is peopled from among all
nations. The members of this scattered band
may be unknown to each other in this sphere,
but they are brothers and sisters all the same ;
their minds are on the same plane of spiritual
receptiveness; as the true seekers, they will
be true finders of wisdom.
How I have but poorly tried to state this
theory—that all religion from Fetishism in the
West of Africa, to Ritualism in the West of
London, is but one and all the same in essence;
it is the present stage of the development of
religion evolved from the memories of the past,
it consists of rifts in the veil of Isis, the remains
of the wisdom, powers, and knowledge of that
archaic age when man was in very truth the
Son of God. Priests have taught and seers
have exhorted and prophecied, mystics have
expounded, poets have sung about an angelic
state and the golden age, artists have depicted
angelic forms, and musicians have retained to
us in their lovely strains the lost language of
the soul, each and all of these have answered
to their spirit powers and tried to do their work,
for they have been all aiming at the restoration
215
April 30, 1880.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
of harmony. They felt the discord when com- I)
moner men were hugging their chains. Thus !|
some few spirits have ever been aliye, and |<
through them higher powers than those of the I?
senses have been always recognized; and by I!
degrees through history we have been led to |J
present times, until in the open manifestation K
of the Spiritualism of to-day, we have a general k
recognition of spirit—an acknowledgment, I?
though an uncultured one, of the power of |5
spirit oyer matter. This last power has had its |s
day; men have found out it is a broken reed, k
therefore many are once more willing to look u.
into the teachings of the great spirits who have |j
come to us full of divine intelligence—the only |<
sources hitherto for spiritual knowledge. |<
Materialism is becoming revolting to us, as its j<
emptiness is being shown. A modern Spiritual- jj
ism is therefore, I say, the first sign of an open Is
rebellion of our spirits against the heavy weight
of matter now crushing us. We have discovered |<
that we were meant to be happy and blessed, |<
to be powerful and to be wise, to love and to be js
loved, and we have discovered that we are K
miserable and forsaken, and weak and foolish ; k
that we neither really love God, nor do we |3
know that He really loves us. Modern Spirit- K
ualism is therefore the first general sign of our k
times that we need some fresh teaching and }?
enlightenment, for we only begin to feel our \)
destitution when we learn what our real birth- K
right is.
{To he Continued.)
■ — ♦ 
MYSTERIOUS STONE-THROWING AT
PLUMSTEAD.
The residents on the western side of Maxey-road, K
Plumstead, at the upper end, have during the last few IS
days been alarmed by a singular bombardment of their ;)
houses. Stones of large size have been showered upon K
them by some unknown hand at the rear of the premises, |S
destroying the windows to such an extent that in one K
house every pane of glass is broken. The inhabitants IS
of Burrage-road, whose gardens meet those of the i)
Maxey-road houses, have naturally been scandalised K
and vexed at the imputation. Nothing could be seen to |)
justify a selection of the offending quarter, and the aid k
of twenty police-constables in plain clothes has been is
obtained, and they were hidden about the gardens and I)
houses, but failed to discover the offender, and although j(
the stone throwing continued from about six till ten | S
o’clock every evening, its orgin was still a puzzle. |)
Indeed, for a day or two the bombardment continued j<
all through the day, and at intervals of five minutes !;;
smash went a pane of glass or the remains of one, k
and another large stone found its way into the parlour, |S
bed room, or kitchen. No. 200 Maxey-road has been I)
an especial mark for attacks, and suggests the interior i (
of a house after a siege. It has been recently whitened i)
at the back, to which may be attributed its being made k
a mark of by the assailants. The bed-room window is j)
barricaded with boards and carpets, not to save it, for |/
every pane of glass has gone, but for the protection of Jv;
the inmates, one or two of whom have been injured*
The same destruction is to be seen in all the other rear
rooms; even the projecting scullery, whose window
faces the south, has come in for its share of the assault,
proving that the catapult or engine used must stand
somewhere in that direction. Great stones lay about
such as no human hand could have thrown for any
great distance, some weighing nearly a pound. Ac¬
cording to latest information the stone-throwing con¬
tinues, but at more uncertain periods. A clue to the
offender has been obtained, and there is every reason
to believe the unoffending inhabitants of Burrage-road
will be fully exonerated from any participation in the
mischievous attack.—Daily Chronicle, April 2§th, 1880.
\_Qreat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned; copies
should he kept hy the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.~\
CLAIRVOYANCE.
Sir,—Will you kindly allow me to inform all pro¬
fessional clairvoyants among your readers, that I have
lost a silver trinket, and will give a reward of not less
than one pound to whoever restores it. All requisite
information and facilities for rapport shall of course be
forthcoming on application. The weight of evidence
seems to me decidedly in favour of the real existence of
such medial powers as may develop into valuable and
recognized detective agents, and I am satisfied that the
best and safest course both as regards the mediums and
the cause of Spiritualism, is payment for results alone.
Should this appeal end in success, I shall ask you to give
publicity thereto and remain, sir, Yours faithfully,.
Louisa Lowe.
64, Berners Street, London, W. April 26th, 1880.
SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR MRS. ANDREWS.
Sir,—Kindly insert the opening of the list of sub¬
scriptions for Mrs. Andrews; the treasurer, Mr.
Wootton, 33, Little Earl Street, Soho, will receive
additional donations, which may be sent by post office
order or otherwise.
Mr. A. Yacher, £l Is.; Mr. O. E. Williams, £l Is.;
Mr. Sowerbutt, £l Is.; Mr. Johnston, £1 Is.; Mr.
Wootton, £1 Is.; Mr. Reimers, £1 Is.
C. Reimers.
Times of general calamity and confusion have ever
been productive of the greatest minds. The purest ore
is produced from the hottest furnace, and the brightest
thunderbolt is elicited from the darkest storm.—
Lacon.
The last best fruit which comes to late perfection,
even in the kindliest soul, is tenderness toward the
hard, forbearance toward the unforbearing, warmth of
heart toward the cold, philanthropy toward the mis¬
anthropic.—Richter.
Thou must content thyself to see the world as it
is. Thou wilt never have any quiet if thou vexest
thyself, because thou canst not bring mankind to that
exact notion of things, and rule of life, which thou
hast formed in thy own mind.—Fuller.
Mrs. Baton is gradually acquiring great fame- in
Australia as a medium. While her hands are held, large
pieces of rock fresh and wet from the sea, also shells
and sea-weed are brought into the room. The details
are given from time to time in the The Harlinger of
Light, Melbourne.
216
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 80, 1880.
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Bg the late Wm.'Qrkqoet, M.D., F.K.S.E., Professor qf Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
Xhe second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I s—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV s—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER Vs—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, <fec., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—^Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VTI:—Trance, Natural and Accidental 5 Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—^Variety in the Phenomena—^Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX s—Action of Magnets, Crystals, See., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Dseful Applications of Mesmerism—^Physiological, Therapeutical, &c.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—^Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Claurvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI j—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Ma;dc Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazedat—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER xm:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep-
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Cases—^Perception of Time—Cases 1 Sir J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Oases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London,
I In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out-
i lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Gralileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth,
i The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
I Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
I professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
j true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
I presence of mediums without being touched,
j Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
I Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
! thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
I house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
i Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
! forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
j stranger to the family present.
I The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
| science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
| private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
I only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
| phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
I tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
I be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
! the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
| the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrnp-
! tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
I 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
I the same number of each sex. Bit in subdued light, but sufficient
j to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
j wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
1 top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
I 3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
i but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
I 4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
| general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
! should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
j indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
; 6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
j to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
j the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
I three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
] “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I kspeak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message P ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
j from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
I trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class ot
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances because
no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
April 30, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
iii
Cloth, small 8vo, price 8s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse _ or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pricisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin' is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
L1ALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
■5- in Spiritualism, by Christian Reimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENO¬
MENA OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st., W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for IJd; or six copies post free for 6d. 
RRAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENGER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“ Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanactiow published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, andjudge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: 8. E. Catty, 12. Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa¬
tion of spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, dally. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S. O., care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
rPHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
JL oldest j ournal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &o., &o. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W,0
Price 3s, 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Postfree. i
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treheme) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation.' By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—‘‘Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emih
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship oi
‘‘M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Siance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurico Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. II. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. Ii;
Alex. Ca}der.
XU.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of tho Clergy i.
Relation to Spiritualism. ■ By Lisctte Makdougal
Gregory.
XLIV,—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallac.
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 8;
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8v;
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academic
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin an
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmcri'-
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society :
the Promotion of Science, Arts and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch pffice, Si.
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. fid.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part!.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII,
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
1 psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuve de
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable t
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. fid. Post free;
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V:—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modem Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
F.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
800 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepenee,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINOS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by tne wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
bindinguponhimself to “drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in piivate families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con
sequently irreligious age.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 30, 1880,
Accidental Indigestion
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
USE
ENO S FRUIT SALT
Erery Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a bottle of
ENO'S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health-
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression,'.Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENG’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Da. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
■world,”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from itl”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT 1!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de la Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. He is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
m the house.”—M. Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.— “After suf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try END’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.” *
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule it
marked "ENO’S FEU IT SAIT.” Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The'. Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song oi
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief ot the College of Howling Der¬
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12. Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe! ”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejam Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30. The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says;—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our commou
humanity. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Easy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free 7£d.; cloth.
Pbize Essays.
rTHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
A SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr,
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33
Museum-street, London, W.C.
1\/riND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
JL»-L Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual,
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free. i
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBEOK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Lunacy law reform
ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from2 30 to 4 pm. Saturdays 1 to 2.
Louisa Lowe, Hon. Sec.
rTHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
-L OR THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post free 6jd. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-street, London, W.O.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinion s we shall n ot now enter. We
will only say that Ms descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test wMch ms
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (wMch is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS.
Spiritual Phenomena among Savages 205
A Voice from Outside Laodicea. By (an Old
Spiritualist     207
Spiritualism in Distant Lands   210
Astrology. By C. C. Massey  210
Some Religious Aspects of Spiritualism. By
Isabel de Steiger     211
Mysterious Stone-throwing at Plumstead ,... 215
Correspondence Clairvoyance    215
Subscriptions for Mrs. Andrews 215
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C,
