JoUfCK&I* 0^
Cjj.e toitlj j^jjratalxsm in (&xmi §rHam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON :. n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosquc 246/ Boule
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Paris!, Via della Maltonaia
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 342. (Yoii. XIY.—No. 11.) LONDON : FRIDAY* MARCH 14j 1879. Published Weekly;-Price Twopence.
Contents
Psychology: its Data and Desiderata. By G. S. Boulger,
F.L.S., F.G.S   121
The Evolution of the Soul-Life     ... 122
Spirit Identity  ... 125
A Yankee Conjurer and the Sick Poor  ...    126
Sunday Services at the Cavendish Rooms  127
An Apparition...     i ...      127
The Mediumship of the Leader of Bf ahmoism 128
Correspondence:—Sacrifices for Spiritualism and the
Objects of Organisation—Incidents in the Life of St.
Theresa—Spiritual Phenomena in China 129
Nostradamus   131
Paragraphs:—The Gift of Invisibility, 125 ; “ Spirits Before
our Eyes”,..  132
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-A- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also h^s an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of literature. Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions m its columns are Mr. C. P. Varley, C.E., P.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness;- His imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenbergj: Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling<
oury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States); Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson ,lM.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United.Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
In the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places<
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Keamey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper BranchOffice, 88, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, <fcc., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the'Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. L, by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Aye Maria-lane, E.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS.
The Offices of the Association will be open between the
hours of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except
Saturday, when they will be open between the hours of 2 p.m.
and 6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR MARCH, 1879.
Monday, 3rd.—Fortnighlly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Paper by Dr. George Wyld on “ Christian
Occultism.”
Wednesday, 5th.—Soirde Committee at 5 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee at
5.30 pm.
Friday, 7th, and every succeeding Friday.—Experi¬
mental Research Committee at 6.30 pm.
Tuesday, l\fh.—Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting at 6.30 pm.
Monday, VIth.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 pm.
Paper by Mr. Alexander Calder on “ The
New Era."
Wednesday, 26th.—Library Committee at 4.30 p.m.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
RESEARCH COMMITTEE.
TO MEDIUMS:
This Committee, having in their charge the “ Weighing
Apparatus ” presented to the Association by Mr. C. Blackburn
for the purpose of obtaining absolute evidence of certain phe¬
nomena occurring in the presence of “physical" mediums,
invite such mediums, public or private, to communicate with
them with a view to experiments with the apparatus in
question. Desmond G. Fitzgerald,
(Chairman of Committee).
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-road, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &e., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
The Religion of Spiritualism.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will LECTURE
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
At the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, W.
Admission Free.
Lecture begins at 7.30. Doors closed at 7.45.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following Engagements:—Hastings, Gensing Hall,
Afternoon and Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial
Society, February 4. Plymouth Mechanics’ Institute, February
12 (second time this season). Redruth Institution, February
13. Truro Institution, February 14 (second time this season).
Leamington Institute, February 25. Finchley (Church end),
February 27. Croydon Literary Institution, March 6 (second
time). Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-
street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
March 12th, April 9th, May 14th, June 11th. Tickets 5s., 3s.,
2s., and Is.
N.B.—The Second Recitation of the Series will be given on
Friday, February 28, instead of Ash Wednesday, February 26.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. 4. January. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Is Immortality a Delusion? By Epes Sargent.
II.—Sister Celeste. By J. C. Earle.
III. —Spiritual Philosophy in Relation to Death and Spirit Life.
By Rev. J. Page Hopps.
IV. —Inspiration. No. 2. By Mrs. De Morgan.
V.—Reminiscences of George Thompson. By his Daughter,
Mrs. Nosworthy,
VI.—Zetalethes, the Truthseeker. By Miss Greenfield.
VII.—The Mound-Builders. By William Denton.
VIII.—Montanism.
Materialistic Mysticism—A Geologist’s Confession—The Seat
of Evil
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co. London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kislingbury’s Paper.
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.’’
March 17.—Mr. Calder, “ The New Era.”
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “Experiences in the Home
Circle,” No. 2.
April 21.—The Rev. W. Miall, “ Exoteric Observation in Spirit¬
ualism.”
May5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Sniritualism.”
June 2.—Mr. G. F. Green, “ Spiritualism and its Teachings, in
their relation to Problems of Government.”
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ Review of the Session.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, Jrom £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms :—8, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, dec., dec.
post free, seven stamps.
J. TURNER,
LOCKSMITH, BELLHANGER, AND GASFITTER,
Stove and Range Maker,
1, HIGH STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Every description of Patent Close Fire Kitcheners repaired
and fixed.
Hot Water, Steam, and Bath Fittings.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
I and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March 14, 1879.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq,, 1, Here/ord-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Viee~Presiclents.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1- Hernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Geralrt, Mrs., 19, Cambriage-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fltz-Gerald, Desmond G-i M.g.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Biixton,
S.W.
Honywood. Mrs., .52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jenc'ken, Henry D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.'
Binney, F A., 24, St Ann s-sauare. Manchester
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S.. Vale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 5, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. fl . 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59. Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C-, Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton. R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., fi. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill. Kent.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbonrne-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart,, Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon. S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A., Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, "Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C.. 15. Harpur-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., S,"Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers. Christian. 47, Morning*on-voad Regent’s-nark.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford, "
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M.v 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
if. 17, Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Secretary.
Miss Burke, 88, GreatRussell-street,Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rasslffi Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President, of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
II. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastian© Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne. Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy 1,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 684, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.SJV.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town,South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut -Col. P. Jacoby, H -Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D.,Umon Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F,R,G,S„ H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hil1
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epr-jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrave-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. fl. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienni.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
AUied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—.Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Sigdori-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad.’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum
OYERNMENT PROSECUTIONS FOR
~K MEDICAL HERESY: a Verbatim Report of the Case
“Regina v. Tebb.” Dedicated to the Board of St. Pancras
Guardians, London. With letters from the Right Hon. W. E.
Gladstone, M.P., the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P., and others.
Forty pp., Price 2d., or Is. 9d. per dozen, or 12s. per 100. This
pamphlet should be circulated largely during elections of
Guardians and Members of Parliament. Published by Edward
W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preiace describing the spiritual state oj trance
during which some oj the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit ChiJd.—XL Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVTII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth;
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE, COM
PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It shows
(we think successfully) that every form of mediumship, now so
familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of
identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts I and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These hooks, consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrowing
parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James's-street; andMr.Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Goiit,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At_ home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds qf Spiritual literature. 
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 178, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 85, Blurton-road, Clap-
ton-park, E.    
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal-
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MRS. M. G. PARKER, MESMERIC
HEALER and DEVELOPING MEDIUM, 66, War-
wick-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Franklin
gives Seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Bruns wick-square,
from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every evening from
8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engagements can-be made
by letter sent to the above address.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients and maybe consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hili,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
T\/rRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes-
JltjL meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5. Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday evenings, office hours, owing to press of business,
extended to nine o’clock.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
A SELECT CIRCLE is in course of forma¬
tion to hold weekly Seances with a Physical Medium.
Applicants wishing to join said circle are requested to send
names and addresses to B. C., care of Miss Burke, 38, Great
Russell-street, W.C.—Each member is expected to contribute
his quota towards suitable remuneration of the Medium.-;
~A~NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
-CjL ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Tnrin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Socitti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
>S^ CHISCHE STUDIEN
devoted to the investigation of
. AMonthlyJournal
the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and.
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsio: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE, a narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
BRIGHTON.—MISS WOOD, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. •— Terms on
application.
FOLKESTONE. •— Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, hoard and all included, £3 per week
each ; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
sounerie, Paris.
til tl % J|Ip| mb irf
Ko. 342.—VojLUjviE Fourteen; Kumber Eeevej^.
LONDON. FRIDAY. MARCH 14th, 1879.
PSYCHOLOGY: ITS DATA AND DESIDERATA *
BT G. S. BOULGER, P.L.S., F.G.S.
Mr. President, Ladies, and Gentlemen,—An apology
weakens, I believe, the confidence of an audience in a
lecturer. Still I cannot but consider one to be due to you
from an outsider—a Philistine—like myself for venturing to
approach your especial branch of study—a study beset,
moreover, as I hope to show presently, by difficulties of no
common magnitude.
I trust, however, that as the opinion of foreign nations
has been compared to that of a contemporaneous posterity,
some advantage may accrue to the science of psychology
from a somewhat critical examination of its very elements
by one trained in a very different line of research.
But here I have assumed the first stage of my inquiry,
viz., whether there be such a subject of study as a ^vxV)
and, if so, whether it be susceptible of a logical or scientific
treatment. I then propose to discuss what may be its
various provinces and admissible assumptions, and to con¬
clude by sketching some of our available material and our
most pressing wants, with special reference to psychological
evidence.
The existence of such societies as this is in itself evidence
that a not inconsiderable number of people believe there to
be a subject of inquiry which they agree to look upon as the
^vxv; but a similar argument may be used with reference
to astrology or phrenology, and it is no argument for the
actual existence of such an entity. I maintain, however,
not only that the mere fact of any group of opinions being
held by a large number of people justifies a scientific man
in examining into their truth, but that in so far as he refuses
to countenance or take part in such an inquiry, he excom¬
municates himself from the band of seekers after truth—he
ceases to be a scientific man. If then there was no science
of real psychic phenomena there would be a science of so-
called psychic delusions.
But I propose to show that the existence of psychic
phenomena is universally admitted, and that they are
susceptible of scientific treatment.
The body of man, as of other animals, may be fitly com¬
pared to a machine regulated to work, if supplied with fuel,
for some years, till the mechanism itself is destroyed by
combustion. Such a machine might perhaps be said to be I
automatic; and we may, by a fair analogy, speak of the j
anatomy or science of the structure of such a mechanism,
and of its physiology, or the science of the forms of energy
manifested by it when at work.
But those who hold the most materialistic views of human |
nature—not that I would be understood to use the term
^materialist” in any way as a “red rag” or “cry,” but
simply as a term of science—universally, I believe, admit
that a mature, normal man exhibits phenomena not re- J
ducible to the functions of any known structure, ope- j
rating by means of any known form of energy. These
phenomena, I presume, Professor Huxley intends to sum j
up in the adjective “conscious,” which he prefixes to j
the word “ automata.” A “ conscious automaton ” is, to
my mind, a contradiction in terms, or at least an ambiguous j
phrase, unnecessary, if not actually impedimental to science, j
The “ consciousness,” in the wide sense of Professor Huxley, j
I take to be the 'tyvxrj, the subject of the science of j
psychology. It will, thus, embrace all those phenomena of
human nature which belong neither to anatomy nor to
physiology—phenomena which, it is admitted, cannot be
expressed in terms of sensation. This will include the mind
in its generally accepted threefold aspect or three functions !
—the Feelings or Emotions, the Will or Volition (if it can
    - „ '   |
* A paper read before the Psychological Society, March 6th, 1879. i
111 truly be said to exist, is one of the problems of psychology),
|>| and the Intellect, with its varied modes of operation (of
j | which more anon)—besides the questions as to the existence
|| | and nature of a “ tertium quid,” known sometimes as
||| “ spirit,” “ soul ” being then a synonym of “ mind,” some-
|| j times as “ soul.” These two terms, “ spirit” and “soul,”
11 j have, in my humble opinion, become worn out by the
|) | variety of uses to which they have been applied, and no
j s i longer have any definite, i.e., any scientific, meaning.
11 i In this attempt of mine to mark out the province of
[) j psychology, I would only allude to two other points—the
| I so-called science of mental physiology and the testimony of
j j I Professor Tyndall.
Hi If I rightly understand the word “physiology,” it is
| i possible to have a physiology of the brain, but not of the
| j ] mind, without we first have a mental anatomy. So that
I j though there may ever be a borderland between physiology
I j and psychology, that borderland cannot be erected into a
j11 substantive branch of science any more than solar chemistry
i j | can be separated by a sharp line from the chemics of the
| | earth. That we can make no sharper line of demarcation,
ir| no more dfscredits psychology than does the absence of any
| I definition of energy discredit physics, or the absence of any
i | definition—I say it advisedly—of life discredit biology,
i j In his absurdly well-abused Belfast address, Professor
I | Tyndall puts so forcibly the views of Bishop Butler in
| | opposition to those of Democritus, Epicurus, and Lucretius,
j i now-a-days resuscitated, that I need only quote a few lines.
I ! You cannot,” he says, “ satisfy the human understanding
|j in its demand for logical continuity between molecular
| | processes and the processes of consciousness. This is a rock
I j in which materialism must inevitably split whenever it
‘ | pretends to be a complete philosophy of life.”
The second point I proposed to discuss was whether the
I tyVX*} be capable of scientific treatment, and on this point
| I nave friends who differ from me on the ground that when
| we pass the tangible we pass beyond the possibility of defi-
| nition. If so, there is no science of psychology ; it is mere
| speculation or dogma. But I venture to point out that our
I knowledge of the whole world of nature is only in terms of
consciousness, so that we have as much right to assume the
| reality of facts of consciousness as of the so-called “ external”
facts. From these facts, then, it is our business to form the
widest possible generalisations, and we shall still be within
the province of what the late George Henry Lewes usefully
distinguished as empirics. My friends have, I imagine,
strayed into the boundless desert beyond the region of
empirics—a land of opinion, of dogma, of faith, beyond the
legitimate deductions from facts, and thus beyond definition,
beyond science.
The realm of Psychology, I would suggest, may be tenta¬
tively divided into four great divisions ; but it must not be
imagined that any rough and ready laying off a man’s head
in lots numbered from one to fifty, as in phrenology, is
scientifically possible. The first three divisions or provinces
have as their subjects the three aspects of mind—feeling,
volition, and intellect—whilst I prefer to leave as a fourth
and distinct province for research the investigation of all
residual phenomena, neither bodily nor mental, if such there
be, which point to a third entity in addition to body and
j mind, which hypothetical entity I would term “pneuma.”
Each of the first three provinces has a physical as well as
| a subjective aspect, and each may be looked upon com-
j paratively, embry©logically, and historically. We are often
told that it is fallacious to refer to the evidence afforded by
our mature consciousness ; but in so doing we only naturally
follow the same track as biology, in which human anatomy
preceded histology, physiology, comparative anatomy, and
, embryology. We are, as it were, in the sixteenth century
122
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 14, 1879.
of psychology, and we are still in want of a Harvey, a Ray, j (
a Linnaeus, a Schwann, a Cuvier, and a Yon Baer.
The third province, that of intellect, we may, following ||
Professor Bain, whose works are our most useful handbooks, |
divide into the faculties of discrimination, of consciousness, j I
of agreement or similarity, and of memory. |
These divisions are those of a system of mental physiology I
based on a necessarily hypothetical anatomy; but they are j
true of the mind in disease as well as in health, so that the j
facts of pathology, though they may be made a separate j
study, do not form a distinct province. I
With regard to the fourth province, that of the pneuma, j
which may prove a kingdom in itself, I would only remark, j
by way of caution, that if we are to examine it scientifically !
we must proceed on the first principle of science, that is, j
scepticism. For, as an eminent divine has well said, |
“ scepticism, which is fatal to religion, is the very life of
science.” j
As you, sir, truly said in your last annual address, our I
main desideratum now is facts; but while I venture to point |
out that we have already accumulated a large number of j
facts, I venture also to suggest that these facts want a rj
scientific classification, that their value and bearing may I
become manifest. We have yet very much to learn respecting j j j
the emotions of animals other than man, and of children, 11 j
and of the quantitative analysis of all emotions; much j j
concerning habit and inherited mental proclivities, besides | !
other topics ; and everything remains to be done in the |
investigation of those residual phenomena which point to j I
the existence and properties of a pneuma. i
Autobiographies afford much interesting matter on general j j
psychology. Its examination would be a service to the j
science. |
With reference to the classification of our material, I j
would merely recommend the excellent example set by Mr. !
Herbert Spencer in his Descriptive Sociology, in dealing \ I
with an even more complex science than psychology.
The last topic to which I have to advert is the tests we | j
should apply in the accumulation of what will probably be h
the most valuable portion of our stock of psychological j
evidence, viz., that newly and scientifically obtained—the \
laws of psychological evidence. Assuming only that there j
is a something conveniently termed a and that its j
properties are to be discovered by investigating facts of con- j j
sciousness and facts of bodily action, how are we to examine I j
into the reality of these facts ?
As it will, I think, be generally admitted that scientific j j
knowledge differs from the ordinary knowledge of the j j
unscientific in its greater exactitude, so I think the rules of j
scientific evidence must differ from those principles on
which we form our everyday beliefs mainly in their greater j
rigidity. They will thus approximate those rules adopted j j
by lawyers as a means of administering justice.
Those rules which are in my opinion essential to our , J
present purpose are the following :—
(1.) We must require the best evidence procurable. We {
may be able only to reach moral certainty, as it is called, !
not a demonstration; that is, logically, merely a balance I j
of probability. j
(2;) The burden of proof lies on the party against whom
udgment would be given if no evidence at all were offered.
(3.) Hearsay or anonymous evidence, if not absolutely
excluded, must be greatly discounted. It is proverbial that j
fi the wish is father to the thought,” and, were it necessary, j
I could tell many striking stories illustrative of the uncon- !
scious growth of stories in their re-narration. |
(4.) All the facts must be consistent with the theory, and j
some one inconsistent with any other theory. j
(5.) Though the law does not presume fraud, science, j
knowing the deceptiveness of the senses, may presume such |
a source of error. j
(6.) Facts must be kept carefully distinct from their j j
supposed interpretation, or other mere evidence of opinion. j j
(7.) Authorities must be weighed and not merely counted, !
and allowance made for prejudice, education, interest, &c. ) j
(8.) One, false on one point, should be rejected on all. j 1
The following is the classification suggested by the j! -
author :— [ ]
KINGDOM I.—MIND.
Province I.—Feeling.
Includes Pleasures, Pains, and Neutral Emotions.
Physical or Objective Side.
I ' The Nervous System,
i Phylogeny, or comparative anatomy
| of the nervous system.
| Ontogeny, or embryology of the ner-
j vous system.
| Mature human anatomy of the ner-
1 vous system.
Pathology.
| Laws (to be further established or set aside),
Relativity.
Diffusion.
Self-conservation.
Stimulation.
| Authonties—Dr. Carpenter, Dr. Lionel Beale, Mr. G. H. LewOs, Mr. Darwin,
Professor Bain, Mr. Herbert Spencer.
Province H.—Volition.
Subjective or Mental Side.
The emotions apparently expressed
by animals other than man.
The feelings and emotions of chil¬
dren.
Analysis of the feelings of adults.
Physical Side, Subjective Side,
Corresponding to structure or ana- Corresponding to function or physio-
tomy. logy.
Spontaneous energy or surplus activity.
Self-conservation or regulation, i.e., dependence of emotions on vital
power.
Acquired or habitual results of feelings.
Pathology.
Authorities—Prof. Bain, Mr. Herbert Spencer.
Province III.—Intellect.
Mode I.—Discrimination.
Physical Side.
Mode II.-
Phylogeny.
Ontology.
Pathology.
Agreement.
Subjective Side.
Under this head comes much of the discussion of instinct, power of generali¬
sation, classification. Judgment and imagination are simply degrees (advanced)
of discrimination and agreement.
Mode III.—Memory.
N.B.—Douglas Spalding’s experiments.
KINGDOM II. (?)—PNEUMA.
THE EVOLUTION OF THE SOUL-LIFE.
In a recent* article Professor Knight restated the ancient
doctrine of Metempsychosis. He did not collate this theory
with that of Evolution, or show what bearing the recent
advances in physiological thought and discovery had upon it-
If the doctrine is to be anything more than a curious specu
lation, this attempt should be made, and the following is an
essay of that sort.
Our knowledge of the external world is necessarily rela¬
tive. We know only such parts of it as our senses or instru¬
ments enable us to perceive, but we come to recognise in it
an existence independent of our knowledge, and, further, we
know it to exist only when it affects us, and only as it affects
us, but experience has led us into the belief of its reality,
because we can always bring ourselves into a position to be
affected by it.
Now though phenomena are persistent, we find them sub¬
ject to continual change ; and B follows A, and G follows B,
and that invariably, so that when we see B we conclude that
A was there first, and that after A, in the ordinary course, B
will follow. Here, again, we know only such sequences as
we have traced, but we supplement knowledge with belief
(as with the reality of things), and our belief being con¬
stantly verified, these invariable sequences become to us so-
called laws of Nature.
Amidst hosts of minor differences of all sorts in the phe¬
nomena of the external world we find one that is cardinal—
that between organic and inorganic—between that which has
organs and that which has none. It is true that some philo¬
sophers—Professor Haeckel, for instance—maintain that
here we have no real difference of kind. He says, f “ All
vital phenomena and formative processes of organisms are as
directly dependent upon the chemical composition and the
physical forces of organic matter as the vital phenomena of
inorganic crystals—that is, the process of their growth and
their specific formation—are the direct results of their
chemical composition and of their physical conditions.”
But I submit that if ever there was a petitio principii, it is to
be found in the foregoing sentence. The question at issue
is whether there is any difference in kind between a crystal
* The Fortnightly Review, Sept. 1878.
t The History qf Creation, vol. i., pp. 331, 332 Professor Lankester's tr,, 1876.
March 14, 1879
123
THE SPIRITUALIST.
and protoplasm, and lie qualifies the inorganic process with | |
the word vital, which involves the very difference in dispute, j j
and with a most discreet silence omits to mention the little ! | j
fact, inconvenient alike for his theory and his argument, ! j j
that the organic has and the inorganic has not the power of m
renewal by assimilation, so that the one exists by continually | (j
changing its constituent molecules, and the other simply by j > |
retaining the original molecules in their original ralations. 111
It is only a truism to say that the changes of matter in the j j j
organism, as well as the arrangement of matter in the 151
crystal, are determined by molecular forces, and it gives us m
no explanation why the function of the organ remains, while j j j
the matter of which it is composed is continually removed J|
and replaced. This functional quality is an essential charac- j 11
teristic of all living organic matter, for we find that when it j j I
appears in the least organised organism, the monera—“ a j j
semi-fluid, formless, and simple lump of albumen”—it is |||
here coupled with a function, that of assimilating the ele- I j |
ments of which it is composed—of accretion and excretion. j 11
If we arrange all known organised beings in the order of j I j
the complexity of their organs, beginning with the simplest I |
and so on up to the most complex, we find that that arrange- j j j
ment is marked by a progressive differentialism of functions, j j
and, moreover, corresponds in the main with the order of | j
appearance in the course of time of these forms in the pro- | j
cess of Nature. Further observation leads to the conclusion | j
that this differentiation of organs results from the modifying j
influences of the environment, and that modifications so j j
effected are transmitted to offspring. Of this process of J
development we have naturally no direct knowledge, but the !
several conclusions are capable of verification. When Pro- j
fessor Huxley had shown in the ancestry of the horse the j
development of higher types from lower—that is to say, an I
increase of differentiation in the descent—he adds, in con- | |
elusion, that the clear and manifest discovery of this in one ! |
family is sufficient to establish it in all, because it would be | I
obviously absurd to imagine that with such great general is
similarity existing in the animal kingdom there should be j
the process of evolution in one family and not in all. Here, j j
again, as in the two former cases, we in a sense overstep our j j
knowledge and accept a belief—a necessary belief.
Taking evolution as our guiding principle, we see not j !
merely how the human organism has been produced from ! I
the lowest and simplest forms through the long course of i j!
ages by action and reaction between the being and its j j
environment, but how, when the human type was reached, j
the civilised grew from the savage. By the light of this j
principle we see how everything that tended to increase the !
strength and capacity of the individual in his strife with his j I
fellows, and everything that tended to increase the cohesion !
and strength of the community in its contentions with other j
communities, became singled out and selected for trans- j ■
mission; or, in other words, there was in every case a greater j
or less differentiation of organ, and this was physically com- |
municable to offspring. In like manner we see how all i
laws, traditional and conventional customs, and orders of j
government have been reached by the same arduous path, I
and are, in fact, the survivors of a death-struggle. We thus |
learn how it is we have become possessed of our human j
bodies; and seeing ourselves as one link in this wondrous !j
chain of progress, it is clear to us how and whence have !
come these senses and faculties capable of such high train- j
ing, and these brains, with their multiform convolutions; |
it is also clear how outside affections act on the nerves of the j
senses, how the swift vibrations chase one another along |
their narrow courses and set in motion the pulsing har- j
monies of the brain t all this—the evolution and generation I
of the organism and the working of its complex functional |
and sensational processes—the instructed imagination enables j
ns to follow step by step, and there is no link wanting—no i
break in the continuity. I
We have thus, so to speak, been looking at ourselves from |
the outside as part of the phenomenal world. But there is i j
to each one an inner world—the world of consciousness, i
We can imagine the light vibrations of different rapidities j
that, starting from the various objects of the landscape, j
travel to the eye, also how these distinct vibrations pass !
along the nerves to the brain and call up like vibrations j j
there; but when ideas emerge in the light of consciousness, ^ ^
there is a quite unexpected change, and one that the utmost
effort of our imagination fails to account for or picture
to itself. On the one side nerve vibrations, on the other
ideas. What wizardry is this that transmutes the vibrant
motion of nerve particles into all the glory of a summer
landscape ? The Monist tells us that the vibration and the
idea are two aspects of the same fact. For the present let
us accept that statement of the case, and not stop to inquire,
in the words of Professor Tyndal, “ Why should the fact
have two aspects?” Certain phenomena have a dual
aspect—an inner and an outer. On one side a group of
physical affections, and on the other ideas. Let us call this
dualism, being careful to bear in mind that for the present
we mean just that and nothing more by the term. We have
seen that the organism has been gradually evolved during
the long ascent of the organic being from the inorganic.
By scarcely perceptible transitions one form has passed into
another, and always by the way of reproduction and genera¬
tion. We know of no sudden leaps. Our facts and our
theory both exclude them. All the way up the steep ascent
the change has never been one of kind, but always and only
one of degree. It follows therefore necessarily that if we.
find this dualism in the civilised man, it must have existed
in his savage ancestor, and if in the ape-like man then in
the man-like ape, his progenitor, and so on down the whole
scale; and if we would find the dim rudiments of this
dualism, it must be in the first dawn of organic life.
Professor Haeckel says,'* “ We even see in the monera and
other most simple organisms that detached pieces of proto¬
plasm possess motion and sensation just like the whole cell.
Accordingly, we must suppose that the cell-soul—the foun¬
dation of empirical psychology — is a compound itself,
namely, the total results of the psychic activities of the
protoplasm molecules, which we shortly call plastidule.
The plastidule-soul would therefore be the last factor of
organic soul-life.” We necessarily conclude that the cha¬
racter of this soul-life, its intensity, its degree, varies
exactly as the complexity of the organism. And if we
regard the whole universe as a complete organism, seeing
that in it we find most elaborate differentiation of functions,
then we must conclude that in it too is this dualism—this
soul-life—and that as the diversity of function is infinitely
vast, there is a correspondingly infinite diversity in the
soul-life of the universe. With, however, this difi'erence,
that the dualism would be inverted, as it were; the ideas
would be first in order, and, instead of being the result of
affections or sensations, they would, on the other hand, be
the producers of them. Even Professor Haeckel admits, in
a sense, that this conclusion is inevitable, for he says,f
“ Whatever we may imagine to be the nature of the connec¬
tion of soul and body, of mind and matter, so much results
with perfect clearness from the evolution doctrine of to-day,
that at least all organic matter—if not indeed all matter—
is, in a certain sense, animated.”
Turning again to the evidence of consciousness, we find it
witnesses to something more than this dualism. Ideas do
not come and go like the frost-ferns on a window-pane and
leave no trace. But ideas that have once appeared in con¬
sciousness can be recalled and grouped and compared with
other ideas, and there is the consciousness of successive per¬
ceptive and conceptive states, and of a continuity in these—
in short, the idea of personality and identity. But the
organism, as Professor Yirchou has shown us, is built of
cells, not dead and passive, like stones, in a building, but
living and active, and each of these cells has in its degree its
own soul-life. Is then the soul-life of the organism the
sum total of the soul-lives of the cells of which it is
composed ? No, it is not, and for this reason, that each cell
requires its own soul-life for itself for the due performance
of its functions and to enable it to live its cell-life. Is
the soul-life in some other way simply a mode of organised
matter ? If that were so the nerve-vibration and idea mi*st
be regarded as one and the same, but such identity con¬
sciousness refuses to recognise and imagination fails to
image. Between the two is a gulf that cannot be bridged,
and, furthermore, they cannot be identical, because they are
not even inseparable, for in cases of reflex action there is
* Address at the Munich Meeting of the German Association, 1577.
f Ibid.
124
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 14, 1879.
the nerve-vibration, but the idea is wanting. This soul-life, j j
then, is intimately associated with the organism, but is not j |
it. It is constantly modified by means of the organism, for j j
through the organism it gathers ideas, and, in a sense, comes | j \
in contact with the outside world, and it in turn is able to I j j
modify the organism, because by its control it can bring the j j j
body under conditions fitted to produce within certain limits | j
desired changes. It is also separable from the body, for at |
the moment of death consciousness leaves the organism, j j
The organism remains complete. We can weigh it, dissect j i
it, burn it, or do with it as we please, but the soul-life has j j
gone. It eludes both our senses and our scalpel. One | j
moment it is there with its hold of ideas as firm and clear j j
as ever ; the next moment it has gone, and there is nothing j |
but the dead organism before us. What, then, has become I
of the soul-life ? Transformation we know. All nature is j
to us one vast scene of Proteus-like change, but annihilation j
has no place in the scheme—nothing can be destroyed. j
Into what, then, is the soul-life changed ? The soul-life of j
the organism’s component cells is not altered or intensified j
by the cessation of the soul-life of the organism. The j
moment after death- these cells remain grouped together as j
they were the moment before death ; they are not dispersed j
or separated, and their soul-life has not ceased; therefore, i j
if the soul-life of the organism were the sum total of these I
soul-lives, then would it still remain—but it does not. j
As the soul-life of the organism does not resolve itself j j
into the soul-life of the cells, and as it is separated from the j j
organism, but we cannot conceive its annihilation—annihila- j j
tion not being known to us in all the range of our experience— j j
we are shut up to the conclusion that the soul-life must j j
exist separately. Have we, however, any objective evidence I j
of this separate existence 'i What is the testimony of ' j I
history ? What the teaching of our experience ? The | !
traditional and recorded testimony of mankind has but one ! I
voice in the matter, and it speaks with no uncertain sound, j j
Whether it be from the far-off antiquity of Babylon, from j j
the strange and ancient civilisation of Egypt, from the | j
myriads of China, from the Brahmans and the followers of I
Buddha in India, from the classic ages of Greece and Rome, | j
from the Semitic seers of Palestine and Arabia, from the ! j
Eskimo in the north, from the Maori in the south, from |
Europe of the middle ages, or from the world of to-day, the j
answer from ten thousand witnesses is always the same— j
“ We know that consciousness ceases not at death, because |
we have seen and spoken with the souls of the dead.” The I j
mass of evidence is vast and cumulative. It is co-extensive \ !
with the human race, and it is uniform in character. The j I
occurrences described are precisely similar, whether they | I
have taken place in the sacred groves of Greece or in the | (I
thatched hut of the Maori. By what right of logic or j j I
philosophy is anyone to be allowed to give the lie to all this | !
accumulated testimony, and to hold up these witnesses to i j
scorn as “ fools of nature,” and all, forsooth, because he has j j
a theory with which these statements will not square ? j j
Facts so alleged and supported must be met and accounted j j
for, not denied on the ground that human nature is credulous to j j
the extent of imbecility. One affirmation of a good authority j j
in a case like this outweighs a thousand mere denials. What | !
denial can affect Socrates’ assertion of the existence of Sai/iona? j j
A word, by the way, that seems in its origin to have j I
described an apparition, if we regard it as derived from ! !
Scum, in its first sense of to kindle, light up ; and it would j j
refer to the self-luminous appearance of a ghost, and would | !
be like the similar Sanscrit word deva, something bright, j j
Ghost also is a descriptive word, being allied to gush and | j
gust, and denotes either the suddenness with which the j !
apparition comes, or else its gliding movement. Probably j j
the Scotch word wraith, also, is one of this class, though I I j|
do not know its original meaning. These words used for j !
the soul point in their origin to an objective apparition, j j
and differ from that other class, asura in Sanscrit, irvevixa in | |
Greek, and anima in Latin, which simply denote the soul as |
something exhaled, breathed out from the body, ^vxv may ! j
be a word of either class. If it comes from ^v^co, in the j I
first sense of to breathe, it would be of the second class. If, I I
on the other hand, it comes through the second meaning of I a j
to make cool, it would be of the first class, and j |
would refer to the sense of chill that is caused by the appa- j) j
rition. Homer always uses it where we should use ghost, so
probably it belongs to the first class. The apparitions of which
we find these curious traces in the stratification of language,
and to which tradition and history have in numberless
instances testified, have not become obsolete. There are in
every circle and rank of life those who have seen ghosts or
the souls of the dead, and seen them under circumstances
that to their minds admitted of no mistake; and though a
theory of prepossession or unconscious cerebration may seem
competent to account for some of these cases, there are very
many more of which the theory utterly fails to give any
explanation at all. If it be objected that for the apparition
to affect the senses it must be itself—or its form that causes
the sensation must be—material as another phenomena, I
readily admit the 44 must.” For the soul to make itself
visible it must, as it were, clothe itself with a film of
matter, and probably in this we find the explanation of the
fact that so many of these appearances take place imme¬
diately after the moment of death, the form of the soul
having then with matter an affinity which enables it to draw
matter to itself, but which afterwards becomes lessened by
disuse.
May we not then say that to the unprejudiced mind the
united testimony of consciousness, history, and experience
is conclusively in favour of the continued existence of the
soul after death. But if so, when did this existence com¬
mence? Two modes only are possible. Either the soul is,
like the body, generated, or it comes from a world of souls
to be united with the body. The generation of the soul,
if it be at all, must be from the souls of the parents. But
generation is one of the processes of organised matter, and
we have no more ground for believing that it may be pre¬
dicated of the soul than we have for holding ideas to be the
same as nerve-vibrations. Besides it involves this difficulty.
The soul-world would be peopled with hosts of souls cast
out from all kinds of dead organisms since the world began,
and in all stages of soul-development. There might be
means there for the progressive growth of all these, even the
lowest. But we know the line of this development. It is
in the direction of the highest human type, and therefore
why need we go out of our way to find means for this pro¬
gress elsewhere, when they lie ready to our hands in the
different organic types past and present of the phenomenal
world ? The difficulties will vanish, the seemingly discon¬
nected fragments and the puzzling chaos of party will all
arrange themselves in beautiful harmonies of relation, if we
take analogy as our help ; and as in working down the far-
reaching vistas and mazy turning of organic progress the
doctrine of evolution, like a silken thread, guides us surely
and truly through all the windings of the labyrinth, as by
the theory of gravitation the crooked was made straight and
the apparently zigzag and incomprehensible courses of the
planets became orbits of revolution round the sun, so now all
the requirements of the problem before us are satisfied by
a theory of soul-life evolution. There are two things to be
noted at each stage of organic development, the type of the
organism and the soul-life of the organism; and there is
conformity between these two—the more complex the type
the higher the soul-life. The type has developed from a
lower type—one with less differentiation ; and will develop
into a higher—one with more differentiation. The soul-life
has developed from a stage of less intelligence and of
weaker and fewer faculties, and will develop into one
capable of more intelligence and with use of more and better
faculties. The type is modified by its environment, and
passes on such modifications to form the new and succeeding
type. The soul is modified by the organism, and being thus
modified is, after separation, enabled to incarnate itself in an
organism of improved type. The type can only develop by
the influence of the environment and the reaction of the
soul upon it. The soul can only develop by conforming
itself to the changes in the organism with which it is so
closely united. The progress of the type is by way of repro¬
duction of the organism; the progress of the soul-life is by
way of re-incarnation in the organism. Thus the successive
degrees of differentiation through which the organism has
been evolved would on the whole correspond with the
successive incarnations through which the soul-life has been
evolved. The exact correspondence, however, of these must
depend upon the use made by the soul-life of its incarnation;
the better that use the fewer the steps of the progress. But
this much would be true of every case : the organism is the
last of a series of reproductions dating from the first appear¬
ance of protoplasm, the soul linked with it dates the com¬
mencement of a continuous life from the same starting point.
The organism is born into life, modified by its environment,
transmits these modifications to its offspring and dies. The
soul embodied in it during its brief course of life is modified
by the association, and when it dies is released to seek again
after a time another and it may be a higher incarnation,
according to its affinities. During the embodiment the
soul’s association with the body is so close and intimate
that, as a rule, it can only act in and through the
body, in the same way as the body can only affect
and be affected by the molecular influences all around
it, and, as a rule, is uninfluenced directly by any . .
soul except that which is its tenant. Thus is explained a j j
difficulty that at first sight seems insuperable in the way | j
of a belief in our former existences. By the close action j j
and interaction of the soul and body, the memory j j
of the embodied soul is necessarily limited, in most cases, j
to the experiences of its present incarnation; though j
with some persons, if we are to accept their testimony, j
there are dim traces of a knowledge not acquired in their j
present existence. And this becomes more distinctly j
apparent in cases of mesmerism. By the mesmeriser’s j
action on the patient the close union of his soul and body j
seems to be loosened, and two effects result which are exactly j
what we should expect if our theory be true. In the first j
place the mesmeriser gains a certain control over the body !
of the patient, because the control of the patient’s soul is for
the time wholly or in part removed. Of whatever he may j
do or say under this control the patient has no recollection j
when he awakes from his sleep. Of course, if memory were j
only in the organism, there is no reason why it should not |
recollect things done while in the mesmeric sleep as well as j
things done ordinarily. But it does not, because memory !
requires the action and interaction of the soul and body for j j
the ideas to be remembered—for the past perceptions in the | J
memory to be available by the embodied soul. Then, in the j i
second place, the soul of the patient having for the time j [ j
partly shaken off the fetters of the body gains freedom of j j
movement, and shows that it possesses and can acquire j j
knowledge of which it is not aware when in the body, as, for | j
instance, when a sick patient, being mesmerised, can i j
diagnose its disease and prescribe for it.
Obviously the relation existing between the soul-world I I
and the material world is one that we cannot form any con- j j
ception of. Our perceptions being ail and only of the j |
phenomenal world, we are limited to conceptions based upon | j
these. To those in the soul-world the material universe I !
must present an utterly different aspect from that which j j
we see. Possibly the birth again of a soul into the material j j
world may be as complete a disappearance from the soul- j j
world as our death is from ours, and the laws that determine j j
the time and form of that birth may be out of the soul’s j j
reach and control. Thus periods of life in the soul-world j j
alternate with periods of re-incarnation, as day succeeds j j
night. After each incarnation the soul returns to the other j |
life with added discipline and increased development, and I |
recovers again for a time the continuous consciousness of its j
whole existence, and there matures and works up the i I
results of its just-completed earth-life, until the time comes j j
for it once again to undergo the discipline and training of j j
the flesh. Probably, after a time, all the good to j j
be gained by these re-incarnations has been attained, | j
and then the soul „ may be free to move on into other j j
spheres, its affinities with the organic life of the j j
phenomenal world no longer having play. All the lessons j j
of incarnation having been learned—all its experiences j j
having been undergone—the soul would no longer have any j i
cravings or unsatisfied wants that the earth-life could gratify, j j
It may be, too, that ever and anon some noble soul comes ] |
back to incarnation voluntarily from these other spheres, | i
and dying again leaves behind him a name that sheds for j j
centuries its sweet and beneficent light across the wastes j; |
of time.
It would be impossible here and now to enlarge upon the 1 1
moral bearings of this theory. But this I may say, that in
its wide outlook in the light it throws upon the dark side of
our life and nature, and in the incentive it offers to energetic
self-culture and development, this doctrine is vastly superior
to the teaching of materialistic automatism on the one hand,
and the crude and narrow dogmas of a scholastic theology
on the other. S.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
The following is a syllabus of the contents of the new book by
“M.A.” (Oxon) on Spirit Identity, just published:—
Introduction.’
Difficulties in the way of the investigation.
Divergent results of investigators.
Attitude of public opinion represses publication.
This results also from the nature of the facts themselves.
The Intelligent Operator has to be reckoned with.
The investigator has little choice in the matter.
The higher phenomena are not susceptible of demonstration by the
scientific method.
The gates being ajar, a motley crowd enters in.
We supply the material out of which this is composed.
No necessity to have recourse to the diabolic element.
Neglect of conditions proper for the investigation.
Agencies other than those of the departed.
Sub-human spirits—the liberated spirit of the psychic.
These have had far more attributed to them than they can rightly
claim.
Specialism in Spiritualism.
Religious aspects of the question.
Notes of the age.
The place of Spiritualism in modern thought.
The Intelligent Operator at the other End of the Line.
Scope of the inquiry:
The nature of the Intelligence.
What is the Intelligence ?
Difficulties in the way of accepting the story told by the Intel¬
ligence.
Assumption of great names.
Absence of precise statement.
Contradictory and absurd messages.
Conditions under which good evidence is obtained.
Value of corroborative testimony.
Personal experiences—
Eleven cases occurring consecutively, Jan. 1 to 11, 1874.
A spirit refusing to be misled by a suggestion.
A spirit earth-bound by love of money.
Influence of association, especially of locality.
Spirits who have communicated for a long period.
Child-spirits communicating: corroborative testimony from a
second source.
Extremely minute evidence given by two methods.
A possible misconception guarded against.
General conclusions.
Personal immortality.
Personal recognition of and by friends.
Religious aspects.
Appendix I.—On the power of spirits to gain access to sources of
information.
Appendix II.—On some phases of Mediumship bearing on Spirit-
Identity.
Appendix III.—Cases of Spirit-Identity.
(a) Man crushed by steam-roller.
(b) Abraham Florentine.
(c) Charlotte Duckworth.
Appendix IV.—Evidence from spirit-photography.
Appendix V.—On some difficulties of inquirers into Spiritualism.
Appendix VI.—Spirit-Identity—Evidence of Dr. Stanhope Speer.
The Gift of Invisibility.—It is not surprising that some three
hundred years ago a great deal of mystery was believed to surround the
seeding of ferns. It was superstitiously considered that these plants
were propagated by invisible seeds, although it was thought that the
“ black spots ” which were found on the backs of their fronds had some¬
thing to do with their seeding capacities. It was believed that these
“ black spots ” fell suddenly upon the ferns on Midsummer Eve, and
that if they were then gathered under certain conditions, they would
produce on the gatherer some very potent effects, the chief of which
would be the ability to walk invisible. To get the gift of invisibility,
however, it was necessary to proceed to “ catch ” the fern seed in the
following way. Twelve pewter plates were to be taken at midnight of
St. John’s Eve, and placed under the “ black spotted ” frond. The seed
then in falling would pass through eleven of the plates and rest on the
twelfth. Fairies, however, were sometimes in attendance to suatch the
seed away as it fell. But if the gatherer succeeded in his attempt, he
would thereafter possess the much-coveted quality of invisibility.—The
Fern World. By Francis George Heath.
March 14, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
125
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 14, 3879.
126
A YANKEE ^CONJURER AND THE SICK POOR.
The following is a portion of a leading article in The
Glasgow Daily Herald, of March 7th, 1879:—
We hope Mr. Washington Irving Bishop, B.A., will not take it
in the least amiss if we say he is a very clever man. In certain places
in America, perhaps over the whole of the United States, the word
“ clever,” in language if not in literature, means a rather stupid, easy¬
going sort of person, over whose eye wool can be easily drawn, and who
is therefore understood to be the ready dupe of a very different sort of
individual—the u smart ” man. We use the word clever in its English
sense, but if it should be considered more flattering to employ the other
word we have no objections whatever, and unhesitatingly pronounce
Mr. Washington Irving Bishop to be a very smart man indeed. We
have had some experience in Glasgow of smart Yankees, and can
speak, therefore, with a little authority; but a smarter man in his own
way never found himself feted and admired in the Second City of the
Empire. . . . Mr. Bishop was surrounded on the platform by professors,
and divines, and doctors, and eminent citizens. Professors submitted
themselves to his manipulations, and out of professors the physical phe¬
nomena were reproduced. At the conclusion of the last night’s enter¬
tainment extravagant compliments were paid, and Professor Gairdner
had a ready theory for the delusions of Spiritualism, which he tried to
explain to the audience, and subsequently expounded to his students.
“ A diseased faculty of wonder” is the Professor’s explanation, and
perhaps Professor Edward Caird can tell us what the “faculty of
wonder ” is. But probably the learned Professor of the Practice of
Medicine was quizzing his brother Professors, whose faculties of wonder,
if not diseased, were evidently in a state of unhealthy excitement over
the performances of this smart American citizen.
But Mr. Washington Irving Bishop had another excitement in store
for them. He reproduced another physical phenomenon, or, as we
should vulgarly call it, conjuring trick, as astonishing as those which
called forth their admiration, and very nearly called forth a testi¬
monial. Settling-day came, and Mr. Bishop’s reading of that passage
in his letter about giving his entertainments in aid of the Western
Infirmary was that he should take 75 per cent, of the nei proceeds, and
give the Infirmary 25 per cent. Of the net proceeds the Infirmary got
5U53, and Mr. Bishop £360. It is very likely all right, although the
Professors and the public are disappointed and astonished. Mr. Bishop
has his own idea of giving entertainments in aid of charitable institu¬
tions, which differs a little from that which prevails here. The
Infirmary “ catch,” we should think, was good for-the money which has
been handed to the institution, so that Mr. Bishop’s benevolence has
not in the least degree affected his pocket. He owes much to the Pro¬
fessors, for which he is doubtless exceedingly grateful. They ought to
be grateful, too, for has he not reproduced physical phenomena which
some ascribe to the spirits of the dead, and shown what arrant impostors
these spirits are! And yet we are sorry for the Professors, the divines,
M.D.’s, and the eminent citizens. They meant well. They wanted to
explode Spiritualism in public, and they begged an American conjurer
to come and do it. They thought they were dealing with a non-pro¬
fessional—but there, we shall not say another word, except this, which,
we are sure, these learned and distinguished people do not require to be
told. Neither Spiritualism nor any form of delusion is to be extirpated
by the muscular contortions and palmistry of travelling conjurers.
Our Professors and divines know a better method. Let them apply
it, and beware of patronising and advertising distinguished American
gentlemen in the anti-Spiritualistic line in future.
From “ The North British Daily Mail," March 8 th, 1879.
The dispute between Mr. Bishop and those who signed the requisition
that he should give an expose of Spiritualism in the New Public Halls
still awaits a satisfactory solution. While some are indignant at the
manner in which the conjurer has allocated the proceeds of the two
seances, others are highly amused, and declare that he has done a very
smart thing—an opinion with which he very heartily and candidly
concurs. The Spiritualists, on the other hand, are jubilant, and assert
that nothing else could have been expected. Mr. Bishop has done a
better stroke of business than has been represented by one of his critics •
and one of his apologists. The account stands as follows :—
£ s. d.
Expenses of advertising       162 5 11
Muir Wood’s account   15 12 11 K
Paid Western Infirmary     153 9 1
331 7 9
Total receipts         776 19 6£
Deducting the one sum from the other there remains £445 11s. 9£d., a
very handsome profit for two nights’ conjuring. The public have
naturally been very curious as to how Mr. Bishop was invited to
Glasgow. The fact is that he took steps to get himself invited. He
called, we understand, upon a leading musicseller in town and intimated
that he desired to give a couple of seances in the largest hall of the city.
The firm referred him to Mr. Johnston, the secretary of the New Public
Halls. To that gentleman Mr. Bishop went, and said he desired to
give an entertainment for the benefit of a charitable institution. Mr.
Johnston suggested that it should be given to the Western Infirmary, of
which he happens to be secretary. In the course of conversation, Mr.
Bishop produced letters, in which it is said he was recommended to
call upon Professor M‘Kendrick, and stated that he would come
to Glasgow and give a benefit for a charitable purpose if he
obtained from a number of gentlemen a requisition to that
effect. Professor M’Kendrick, desirous to do a kind thing to the
Western Infirmary, and at the same time have an exposure of Spirit¬
ualism, drew out a requisition and got it signed by the Principals and
!! Professors of the Glasgow University. One of the managers of the
! Infirmary then took it down to the Council Chambers and asked the
| Lord Provost to append his signature. His lordship said that as the
object was so good, and as the document had already been influentially
signed, he would willingly put down his name. Mr. White, of Over-
toun, and Mr. Campbell, of Tillechewan, and others were also called
i upon, and their names obtained. But not one wrote his signature under
any other impression than that Mr. Bishop was acting solely in the
[ interests of charity, and with the desire to expose a delusion. The
requisition was in due time sent to Mr. Bishop, who came from Edin¬
burgh to Glasgow, and made all the arrangements himself. So im-
| pressed were all with the idea that the proceeds should go to the Western
Infirmary that the use of the public halls was given at half rates. The
price of the best seats was fixed at 5s., and many persons bought large
numbers of tickets to give away to their friends. As is well known, the
stances were largely attended, and Mr. Bishop was lauded to the skies
by several learned professors for his dexterity and disinterestedness.
But the veil was lifted at the beginning of this week, when Mr. Bishop
intimated he had to hand over to the Western Infirmary £153, and
I would keep £445 to himself. Great were the remonstrances, but these
I were all in vain. The Lord Provost called three days ago, but could
make nothing of Mr. Bishop. The sum of £153 was paid over by Mr.
Bishop to the Western Infirmary on Thursday; but as the managers of
j that institution thought that according to the advertisements asking the
public to patronise the seances, that they were entitled to the whole
proceeds after paying all expenses, a deputation, consisting of the Lord
Provost, Professor M‘Kendrick, and Mr. Thomas Watson, were
appointed to wait upon Mr. Bishop and represent to him the views
of the requisitionists. His lordship could not attend; probably
i: he was sick of the whole subject. But the other two gentlemen
i saw Mr. Bishop yesterday forenoon in Maclean’s Hotel, and repre¬
sented to him that the fair rendering of the announcements
of the seances was that the proceeds should go to the Western
I Infirmary, and that the gentlemen who signed the requisition did it
on that footing. They appealed to him as a man of honour to think
better of the matter ; but he told them very glibly that the transaction
was a purely commercial one, and that he had done all he intended to
do. He was also reminded that the criticism which had already
appeared, and would yet appear, in the press, would militate against
his future success in this country. But he replied this would have a
( | contrary effect, as such criticism would be a very good advertisement
j i for him. Eventually he made a most preposterous offer—namely, that
) ] the requisitionists should sign a document to the effect that he had
(! honourably fulfilled his engagements with them, and that he would
|: undertake with their patronage to give another seance for the benefit
I of the Western Infirmary. Of course, the deputation declined, and
went their way; and so stands the matter up till now. When com¬
plimented ironically yesterday upon having done a clever thing, he
i replied, “ Yes, he calculated he had done a smart thing.” It is stated
that at a grand dinner which he gave this week to his friends and
j admirers, he stated frankly that the professors of our learned
t \ University were the most gullible body of men he had ever met. The
(| professors deny the gullibility, but frankly admit they have been
1“ done.”
To the Editor erf “ The North British Daily Mail.”
| Sir,—-The sequel to the now famous so-called exposures of Spirit¬
ualism by Mr. Bishop is certainly the most entertaining part of the
| whole business ; but I hold that the Infirmary must not be allowed
/1 to suffer in consequence of the laxity displayed by the gentlemen
( i engaged along with this smart Yankee in soliciting the attendance of
| i the public to aid the funds of the Western Infirmary. Those leading
) i citizens and professional gentlemen who gave not only their names to
j I draw the public, but who themselves assisted so actively at the enter-
) ] tainments, from our Lord Provost downwards, are in duty bound to see
) ] that the whole proceeds, less expenses, are paid over to the Infirmary.
(i It must certainly come from their own pockets if it cannot be got out
J i of Mr. Bishop, as it was on the faith of their names and the laudable
) | object in view that the public was principally attracted to attend,
(i being led to understand that Mr. B. was to give these exhibitions
J | solely in the cause of anti-Spiritualism, and for the benefit of the
11 Western Infirmary, and in no way for his personal gain. If the sum
j j which the Infirmary is disappointed in not receiving from Mr. Bishop
j | be not made good by the gentlemen whose names were appended to
) i his advertisement, the public of Glasgow have a right to feel even more
(I disappointed than the Infirmary. Jas. B. Smith.
) i Ingleside, Bonnybridge, March 6.
Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester, informs us that he has resigned
his vice-presidency of the National Association of Spiritualists, also his seat
on the Council.
Mr. Martheze has left Ceylon for Singapore, and intends sailing thence for
China. We have received some interesting letters from him, and will give
extracts shortly. He intends to witness any psychological phenomena ho
may have an opportunity of seeing among semi-civilised races.
Mr. Martin Smith, one of the founders and largest subscribers to
the National Association of Spiritualists, and one of the two trustees
who hold the premises at 38, Great Russell-street, on behalf of the
Association, having been obliged because of his trusteeship to help to carry
out the recent action of the Council about 2'he Spiritualist office, has
written to Mr. Harrison as follows:—“ I desire you, however, to under¬
stand that I entirely disapprove of the resolution, and much regret it—
so much so that I have withdrawn altogether from the Association.”
Mr. Martin Smith has also given up the trusteeship, so other security
will have to be found. At the February meeting of the Council two
new ordinary members were elected.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
127
March 14,1879.
SUNDAY SERVICES AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS. |
At the usual hour of meeting last Sunday evening, the above hall was I
crowded by those who had assembled to listen to Mr. J. William I
Fletcher’s inspirational lecture upon u The Transition Sphere.” i /
The speaker, in the course of his remarks, said :—How important to |
every mind is a knowledge of the illimitable future. Born as every j j
person is with myriads of elements and tendencies, each seeking its ]|
natural expression and proper outlet, it has become the task of the ||
modern teacher to meet, if possible, the aspirations and requirements of |)
each individual in his particular sphere of labour. In past ages many j j
brilliant minds have found so many demands upon them to beautify and j (
cultivate the earth, that no wonder Paganism reached a glorious and j}
useful height; but to-day magnificent cathedrals, well-filled art galleries, ] j
halls of learning, multitudinous inventions, and the well cultivated j
earth, all attest that nature has been, at least to a small extent, appre¬
ciated and enjoyed. The Pagan progress has no doubt been the natural
expression of a strong-bodied and clear-minded people, and so prettily
and well have they accomplished the work they were so eminently fitted
to perform, that the spiritual student of to-day finds the intellectual and i
physical foundation of his researches almost fruitless. The power of j
absorption is the “ elixir of growth,’’ and the mind which can utilise 1 ]
the truths of past ages may, with a large hope of success, feel that the j
storehouse of the future will open wide its portal for his admission.
While we of to-day have lost many of the arts and graces of the past, j
while the greatest minds of this century might easily sit at the feet of j
some of the ancient Greeks and learn wisdom, yet we find at no stage
of the world’s progress has the average spiritual thought been as large !
as it is in the present. Christ’s expressed mission was to bring “ life |
and immortality to light,” and to all the earth has been trans- j
mitted a desire to solve the same great problem. It will not i
sound unreasonable when we tell you that as the ceaseless ebb and
flow of the ocean gathers to its sandy heart new territory, and thus
shortens the distance between itself and the main land, so also does the
action of time upon the spirit lessen the inharmony between mind and !
matter. In two well-known periods in the experience of humanity is
this division strongly marked, viz., birth and death ; and two questions
can very pertinently be asked, at this stage of investigation—“ Before
birth, How ? after death, What ? ” How do all the forces necessary
to make man an entity exist undisturbed in the atmosphere, ready to be
summoned from the realms of space into the kingdom of time and sub¬
stance ? Into the transition sphere of maternity the zmembodied life
projects itself until the amalgamation between mind and matter is com¬
pleted ; on the other hand, the disembodied life ejected by the law of
force enters the maternal bosom of the atmosphere, to be again changed
through the newer and higher birth into the transition sphere of
super-life, which we shall here designate close to this earth, or an
inferior degree of spirit-life, but not at all the spirit-life itself. The
question, “ Why are we born ? ” has puzzled the philosopher quite
as much as “ Why do we die?” disconcerts the religionist; and
when one succeeds in solving the mystery of this life, the problem of
death and the after life will be fully explained. Does the disembodied
mind float around in space after death? asks the earnest inquirer.
Would that we could answer this [in the affirmative. For then could
we say with Mozart—
“ Spirit, thy labour is o’er,
Thy term of probation is done,
Thy steps are now bound for the untrodden shore,
And the race of immortals begun.”
But more than three-score years and ten are necessary to perfect the
spirit. All of this time is required to convert the ordinary life forces into
mind; and through this birth into the transition sphere shall the mind
forces become developed into a higher form of life, which we will term
“ spirit,” after which the newly-crowned mind leaves the ante-chamber
of the transition life and enters the palace of the spheres, or the real
spirit-life. Do the departed minds near the earth have bodies, and if so,
how obtained and what like ? Nature’s provisions are manifold: to the
giant animals of primeval ages, forced to live upon inferior kinds of
food, she gave teeth of immense size and bodies of large growth and
power ; to the wild animals, necessitated to live upon death, a strong
love for blood; and as naturally as flowers turn their faces toward the
sun for light, and their roots to the earth for sustenance, so has Nature
provided a covering for mind while still in the flesh. This body is to
the mind what skin is to the nerves, and so closely does it affinitise
with the mind and its necessities that, when death arrives, they enter
the sphere of transition together. This body is often seen by clair¬
voyants, and is described as a light luminous mist surrounding the
spirit. As the tender flesh is strengthened by nourishment and exercise,
so is this form developed and improved by the climatic and spiritual
influences of the transition sphere, and is in every respect a spiritual
counterpart of the perfect earth body. Do they eat, drink, joy, and
sorrow in this new life, as do mortals? No ; they feed, metaphorically
speaking, upon “ the perfume of roses instead of the leaves,” but the
perfume always comes from your roses. At every table there are unseen
and unbidden guests partaking of the spirit of the food you eat, and
sharing both in your pain and pleasure. The Christian devotee flies to
the church sacrament for remission of sins, the Catholic comes back to
the confessional, and the Spiritualist to the old and oft-attended seance ;
the drunkard seeks again the wine cup, and all Nature moves on in the
same old round unchanged, yet largely intensified. “ Is it not
dreadful?” the Christian exclaims. “We have been taught by our
theology to seek a way out of all this misery and darkness for our
loved ones. They have been purified through repentance, and
are in the bosom of God.” But the enlightened Spiritualist feels
that more than repentance is necessary to atone for even the
smallest sin, either of omission or commission, and is thankful for
time and space in which he may outlive the old error, and earn some
i of the possibilities of the great future. “ Does the mind immediately
awaken to consciousness ? ” This depends much upon the cause of
death, and the condition of the spirit before leaving the body. When
| the spirit suddenly leaves the form it requires time to collect its
forces and become a spiritual entity; but more than all else it
! depends upon the life the person has lived, for that strength which
easily overcometh strange conditions; in fact, unconsciousness after
! death is more determined by the capacity of the spirit than by any
external circumstances. The murderer is often more advanced than
his executioner, and may rise to grand heights quickly : for tragedies
are often committed more under the influence of antenatal conditions
than from any innately evil motive; and as the body holds many of
\ these tendencies, the spirit quickly finds release. Princes in this life
I may awake in the transition sphere to find themselves beggars ; priests
| will be taught by laymen ; and the outcasts received as having been
| more sinned against than sinning. Indeed, in this sphere there
seems to be a law of spiritual gravitation that puts each human soul
j into just that condition in spirit life which his earth life has fitted
him for. These spirits are not in the transition sphere for punish¬
ment, but rather for growth and development, and here they must
remain until all the temptations and influences of the earth life are
left behind: then the spirit rises through its own purity and goodness,
and enters the spheres of the spirit life, there to dwell in happiness and
peace, there to find rest, there to lay down the cross, there to take up
! the crown, there to meet the dear ones gone before them, to enter
into the Father’s mansion, where the wicked cease from troubling, and
! the weary are at rest.
AN APPARITION.
Mrs. Mary Dana Shindler, of Nacogdoches, Texas,
| writes to the Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.), March 1st:—
As every well authenticated fact corroborative of the great
I truth of the return of departed spirits to those they have
| loved on earth is of more or less value to our cause, I
I will relate one which has lately come to my knowledge. A
| short time since I received a letter from a lady residing in a
| North-western State, who, not knowing my address, sent
the letter to <e Colby and Rich,” who forwarded it to me.
! She wrote to inquire as to my identity, and also to get some
i light on the subject of the return of our loved ones to
comfort and watch over us. I found that she was a member
| of one of the most prominent families of Charleston, S.C.,
i and that we had been brought up together, as it were,
; | her whole family in all its branches having been active
i j members of my father’s church in the above-mentioned
! | city. She is now almost alone in the world, and is in the
II most destitute circumstances. I immediately presented her
j with a copy of my book, A Southerner Among the Spirits,
i together with some papers. In return she wrote me a long
| and interesting letter, from which, with your permission, I
| will make some extracts. She says :—
“John, my eldest son, was very talented, and, as I
| could not give him the education he deserved, my sister,
j Mrs. C., adopted him. It was hard to give him up, but
! I felt that the offer was for his benefit, and it would
| be selfish for me to refuse. In 1855 my Aunt M. per-
| suaded me to come to her in I  The son I
| left at home joined the Presbyterian Church in ’62, and
. I on the 14th of May, 1864, two hours before day, the
I j dear boy called to me, 1 Oh ma ! my dear mamma ! it is a
| | glorious thing to be a Christian! ’ This awoke me, and I
i ! then saw him as plainly as I see this pen; his head was
| bleeding violently, and he seemed to be lying on green
| | grass. My friend, this was not imagination, for I could get
j no letters from home during the war, and did not suppose
I i that one so young—only eighteen—would be in the army.
II The excitement made me ill, and the day and hour of
! | the occurrence were carefully set down.
‘ ‘ In October, five months often', we were allowed to
! | receive an open letter of one page, containing only family
| | news ; and mine told me that on the morning of the 14th of
| j May, my dear boy, being on picket duty in Virginia, was
i J | shot in the head and instantly killed. I have felt ever
III since that his spirit was allowed to come to tell me of his
|! | death; and I took special care, in reading my Bible, to note
| j! | how angels told of things unknown before. If I spoke of
I (j my feeling to any one it was said that the shock had injured
j' j my mind, and so I have struggled alone, with no sympathy,
I | and nothing to read on the subject but my Bible. I hope
i it was my beloved mother or your father who impressed me
j to write to you, and, if so, God grant that they may guide
j {i mo on my dark and lonely journey.”
128
March 14, 1879.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF THE LEADER OF BRAHMOISM.
{Concluded.')
If philosophers and theologians, clergymen and mission¬
aries, say—He is everywhere; if all agree in unanimously
speaking of an Omnipresent Deity, why shall I not see
Him ? Perish these eyes if they cannot see my God in this
hall, and upon this very table. I do not believe in an
absentee Lord. He is unto us all an ever-present Deity.
As I saw my God, I naturally asked Him where I would go
to find means of subsistence to satisfy my hunger and
thirst. To the banks ? To a mercantile office ? The Lord
told me—u Give up secular work altogether,” in plain and
unmistakable language. But I said, “ Lord, will not my
family starve if all means of subsistence are thus deliberately
cut off? ” “ Talk not as an infidel,” was the reply. I was
ashamed of my scepticism. I was assured that “ All things
shall be added unto you.” Great stress was laid on the
word 4‘shall,” implying that the promise should be certainly
redeemed. A solemn assurance conveyed in, and attested,
who can set aside as untrustworthy? There it is, and I
have seen every word of it proved and demonstrated, and I
accept nothing unless it is demonstrated. Thus I am a
positivist in spirit, though I am opposed to positivism. I
am fond of demonstration. Religion must have as strong
and sound a basis of evidence as Euclid and mathematics,
otherwise it cannot be acceptable. It must prove that my
God is here, and that He speaks to me. My positivist
spirit cannot believe unless it sees and hears. The eye and
the ear must bear witness unto the Lord, and then only can
I believe. In my creed all precepts begin with a “ Thus
saith the Lord—There is no moral injunction for me, but
what He hath Himself said to me. But how do I know His
voice ? There is a ring, a peculiar intonation, in the voice of
the Lord. Those who have heard it often can recognise it
at once. Six, eight, ten times have I heard it, so that when
I hear my Lord say, ff Thou shalt say the truth to all men,”
I do not ask in a sceptical spirit “ who has spoken these
words?”—is it a phantom of the imagination or some
departed spirit ? Or my diseased intellect ? It was my
God who said to me long ago, “ Thou shalt become a
Theist.” It was He who said, “ Thou shalt give up all
secular work ; and take no thought for the morrow.”
It was He who said to me—Thou shalt lead a simple life
and devote it to missionary work. He has spoken to me
often and often, and every time it was a demonstration, a
clear, positive demonstration, of a mathematical character.
If you are prepared to accept these truths and principles, go
and accept them. But take them not unless they are
demonstrated in your lives, just in the same way as they
have been demonstrated in my own case. I can assure you
I have a peculiarly positivist type of faith, and I wish to see
that faith established in others. I am myself a positivist in
my love of demonstration, and I wish to encourage that
spirit in all of you. Never accept anything as true unless
it is proved by God Himself to be true. And as regards
Jesus Christ, and Paul, and John the Baptist, the Lord will
lead you to them, and verify them spiritually, not histori¬
cally. You speak of history. I hate history. I abhor these
places where dead men’s bones are gathered. Those dismal
and dark places I abominate and detest. The Spirit of
Christ came to me, and not an abstraction or ideal thing,
I was not reading history in the Gospels when these three
great prophets came to me, or they would not have electrified
me as they did. The Bible has never of. itself animated or
inspired any one, nor can it. But the Spirit of God converts
its dead letters into living forms. The characters recorded
there are dumb and lifeless, but awakened by the Holy
Spirit, they start up pictured. Can things pictured upon
canvas or written upon paper give life and salvation ? No.
The historical characters that came to me were all fire.
Their spirits forcibly entered my soul. Could I resist them?
Could I cast them away as mere dead men’s shadows in
history or as metaphysical abstractions ? There they were.
There they are with me, in me; always in my blood and in
my bones. The prophets dwell. Therefore to me it is all
demonstration. You may go in the same way to God Him¬
self, and He will reveal to you His kingdom. If you wish to
see God with your eyes, if you wish to hear Him, pray. I
have not heard and seen all that can be heard and seen.
But I hope to see more fully hereafter. I trust that all
things shall be revealed unto me, and unto you in the ful¬
ness of time. The Lord’s inspiration shall satisfy our under¬
standing, and remove all our doubts and misgivings. I am
encouraged—more than that, I am satisfied. I am delighted
and enraptured. I have the spirit of a mystic in me. But
the creed of mysticism I abjure. Though living in the nine¬
teenth century, I go back to the mystic age to drink of the
pure fountains of Yoga communion there. I go to the Aryan
Yogas of ancient India to learn contemplation. I go into
my inner consciousness, and close the windows of the soul.
It is all dark. Absolute silence reigns there. The object
of the outward world I see not. My heart prayerfully leans
upon the bosom of the Lord. My friend, the friend of
sinners, reveals him the fountain of sweet joy. Oh, the joys
of heavenly communion! How the feeble lights and
splendours of the world vanish; self and the world are all
lost in the sweets of mystic devotion ! I have been asked to
protest against this mysticism. I have been asked to banish
this mysticism from my soul. Banish heaven from my
soul ? Shall I banish my happiness from my soul ? Shall I
make joy an exile? Gather together sorrows and darkness
in my soul ? I cannot do so. Mystic to the end of the
chapter I shall remain. My God makes this mysticism in
my heart prosper and flourish. If mysticism is seeing God,
in believing that God exists, because mathematical and
historical, then I am a mystic in the truest sense of the
word, because He has said so. Seeing and enjoying the
Lord, and, as He says, the inner spirit, the all-pervading
spirit of holiness goes into the soul.
Then, again, I am a scientist. I am for all science—for a
full explanation of the phenomena of nature—mental science,
physical and moral science. I honour Huxley and Darwin,
and all other men, who by their skill are qualified to develop
the resources of the universe. Let them all show the
wonders of the Creator. They are aiding me, and my work
—the work of the world’s salvation. Unconscious of what
they are doing, they are only adding to the Theist’s faith,
knowledge, only adding to your wisdom and joy. The fire,
though earthly, is heavenly. It is a small fire. But the
Lord goes out of these little things to accomplish and
achieve the wonders of this moral world. He converteth a
sinner into a regenerated soul. I say to myself that if there
is anything in my Church which is opposed to science, rather
let the Church perish, than science perish, and the so-called
creed of life. Let these perish, and perish for ever I May
the Lord God Almighty abolish and annihilate this Church
if it be an enemy of science! I will give up all my mysticism,
my daily communion with God, my asceticism, my every¬
thing, if it can be proved that these are opposed to science,
and contrary to the revelations of nature. The God of
Science is my God. He who in all ages works wonders,
and continually exhibits His wisdom, power, and love
throughout the amplitudes of nature. All science is religion,
and all religion is science. There is as much science in prayer
as in the locomotive engine, as much science in inspiration
as in the microscope and the telegraph wire, and the latest
inventions of science. Thus pantheism and mysticism,
science and positivism, are with me. Pantheism and
mysticism are things of Asia, while positivism and all the
sciences of the day are from Europe. My Church is an
Asiatic Church. I am in my very bones and blood, in the
very constitution of my soul, essentially an Asiatic. As an
Asiatic, I would encourage and vindicate devotion to the
extent of mystic communion. But here you will probably
say, there is no harmonious development. It is all prayer
and contemplation, and no work. I say there is harmony.
If I am mystical, am I not practical too ? I am practical as
an Englishman. If I am Asiatic in devotion, I am a
European in practical energy. My creed is not dreamy
sentimentalism, not quietism, not imagination. Energy ?
Yes ; I have that in a very great measure in my character
and in my Church. ... It is curious but true that my
adversaries, those most inimical to me, have unconsciously
adhered to my principles. The Lord has made them my
friends in spite of themselves. There is no serious enmity,
yet they will call themselves my enemies. So much the
better, because those who would otherwise never accept my
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 14, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
129
truths would readily grasp them ; if presented by men pro- f||
fessing to be my enemies, they will be detected. If my j >|
friends preach those truths, they would not perhaps be |ji
welcomed in certain quarters, and hence my so-called |<|
enemies should go there, and advocate my cause effectively. * 1 j j
My truths, have I said ? By my truths, I mean the essential I j I
truths of my life, which the Lord has communicated to me, j | j
and commissioned me to preach to my countrymen. These j j I
truths I call my truths. Surely they cannot be wy truths ||l
in the vulgar sense of the word. I know not my. Where j j j
is my, where is this self? It does not exist. Long since jjj
has this little bird i( I” soared away from this sanctuary I j
know not where, never to return again. My “ self” has j j |
long since been annihilated by my God. I have nought that j j j
is mine. Neither gold nor silver have I, nor is there any i j!
truth which is mine as opposed to or distinguished from I j j
yours and God’s. If it is God’s truth I preach, it is in your | j j
heart; in the heart of educated India, it has found a place. 11 j
It will not be possible for you now to efface or eradicate it. j j j
There, it has gone into the depths of India’s nationality, j j |
never again to be uprooted. The spirit of truth I have been j j j
so long teaching has silently, quietly, and almost imper- I j
ceptibly leavened the heart of educated India. Men know | j
not whence or how it comes. It is a wonder and a marvel ! j!
that, in spite of civilisation, there is so much spirituality | |
growing up in the midst of young Bengal and young India, j j j
Take away this Brahmo Church, take away this grand I j
Theistic organisation, and what is left? No spirituality, jjj
It is all secular education and material prosperity. Go jjj
where you will, to Bombay, to Madras, to the Punjab, to jjj
Assam, and you will find numerous small temples like small I ]j
lights glimmering here and there. When they gather their jjj
forces together, and concentrate their light, all India shall j I
be illuminated by a general and mighty blaze. This living j j j
faith is not contrary to the spirit of Christianity or Maho- j j j
medanism or Hindooism. It is religion, pure and simple, j j
It is the religion of love, the religion of the living God. I j j
see it flourishing everywhere. Daily it grows with the aid j j
of friends, as well as enemies. For twenty years I have j j
been subjected to trials and persecutions of no ordinary jj
kind. Have compassion upon me, my countrymen. Do not j j
trample upon this man. I have told you I am a sinner, yet j j j
am I commissioned by God to preach certain truths. ... j j 1
Surely I am not to blame for anything which I may have j j
done under Heaven’s injunction. If any one is to blame, j j
the Lord God of Heaven is to blame for having taught me, j j j
and constrained me to do certain things for the good of my j j
country. Under His command I have done so, and I will j j
do ten thousand similar things so long as I live. The Lord j j
God is Our Father in Heaven, and when a sinner like a little j j
child says unto Him, “ Lord, save me,” will the Lord mock j i
his sufferings and sins; and when he asks for bread, will the j j
Lord give him a stone ? The Lord cannot do this. If you j !
say these things are mine, and not the Lord’s, then I say j j
No. I know a higher self and lower self.
I have indulged in egotism this evening, gentlemen, but I j J
ask your pardon and indulgence. It is only the pressure of j j
public opinion that has brought me here to explain my j j
character and conduct. Am I a prophet? No. Am la j j
singular man ? Yes. Can you wrest India from me ? Can j j
you, my countrymen, violently wrest away from me glorious j I
and beloved India ? That is impossible. I hold my ground, j j
and with my valiant coadjutors around me, my proved and j I
tried coadjutors, I will hold the citadel of truth, and will j j
not give it up. Can I give it up, my Lord ? Can I give up j j
India, and still live ? I cannot. The whole of my life- j j
blood that is in me will dry up in a moment if I am cut off j j
from my mission. I have no life apart from my Father’s j j
work. I have no earthly concerns to attend to, no property | j
to manage, no source of income to look to. My family and I j j
children are all in the hands of my Church, and my earthly j
possessions. Either India or death. Either patriotism or j I
infidelity. I have no other alternative. Do you wish to jjj
transform me into an infidel by your remonstrances ? Would j j
you have me reject God and Providence, and listen to your j i
dictates in preference to His inspiration ? Keshub Chunder j
Sen cannot do it, will not do it. I must do the Lord’s will, j
Man’s creed, man’s counsel, I will not follow, but will trust I
and serve the Lord. 1 j
OTfitreaponneuce.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
qpposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.]  
* SACRIFICES FOR SPIRITUALISM AND THE OBJECTS OF ORGANISATION.
Sir,—Will you allow me to mention for myself, before any one else
thinks it worth while to mention it for me—
(1.) That I had no reputation in particular to risk by taking part in
the defence of Dr. Slade, being then, as now, an unknown man to the
public, except in spiritualistic circles.
(2.) That I risked, and could risk, no other inconvenience than the
good-natured badinage of friends, and a few annoyances not now worth
remembering.
(3.) That a professional cynic might suggest that Association with so
notorious a case, far from being a disadvantage to a barrister without
much practice, was an excellent advertisement.
The truth is, sir, though I like praise as well as any one, my modesty
can no longer submit in patience to the repetition of a compliment so
high that I think it should be kept somewhat jealously in reserve till it
is unquestionably appropriate. The moral courage which leads a man
of real distinction to defy public opinion is a virtue 1 estimate so highly
for its own sake, as for the incalculable service to truth which is thus
sometimes rendered, that even my vanity would not willingly see the
praise due to it profaned by misapplication.
To say nothing of the many other cases which must have occurred in
the history of our unpopular movement, there are those who came pro¬
minently forward during the Slade agitation who risked far more than I
did or could do, and one, at least, to my knowledge, who sustained
serious, though happily only temporary, loss in consequence of his
fearless conduct.
As for those who have really, in other fields of activity, won a public
reputation, conspicuous—far over most of ours—is their merit when
they come to the front with a justitia ” against the world’s opinion;
true and loyal devotees of science like Mr. Crookes and Mr. Wallace,
and lion-hearted men of the world like Captain Burton. I have always
thought that one of the chief objects of an Association, such as that we
have should be, is to afford an opportunity to those who hold it a duty
to avow unrecognised and calumniated truth, but who cannot otherwise
take an active part in its promulgation.
But then we must be careful not to provide an exhibition from which
people of taste and culture will recoil; and to avoid “ parochialism ” of
tone, as well as in the subjects which engage our attention. I submit,
moreover, that the objects of organisation should be more clearly
defined and kept in view than heretofore. If diffusion of information
among the public was the principal purpose, I believe that many, both
in London and in the provinces, would be attracted, who have no interest
in an Association of the mere convenience of which as a club they either
cannot or have no desire to avail themselves. Every Spiritualist in the
country has a direct interest in the spread of a truth for the sake of which
he probably has had and has to endure more or less vexation. Every
Association in the country, which has a cause to advance with the
public, takes measures which the Spiritualists’ Association has
altogether neglected, partly from want of funds, partly because it has
been more interested with internal squabbles. The funds would come
in if the worthier object was kept in view. And something might be
done at once in disseminating our evidences, if every other expense was
for the time sacrificed to this. It is of little present use printing books
which nobody reads but ourselves. If, for example, the Eastern
Question Association the other day, instead of taking a little garret in
Great George-street, and devoting all its funds and energies to the dif¬
fusion of information, had only met, and spouted, and read papers, with
an expensive establishment, it would not have produced the effect on
public opinion which it undoubtedly did. In fact, we may have a club
for mutual intercourse and advancement, or a propaganda, but we are
not rich or numerous enough just yet for both. Our first business, I
think, should be to correct the misconceptions in the public mind as to
what intelligent Spiritualists do really believe about the physical phe¬
nomena. At present, the general impression is that we think the spirits
of our departed brothers and sisters, fathers, mothers, and children,
come and knock us on the head with a tambourine. I remember, in
Slade’s time, causing some surprise by joining in a laugh at a club
about the “ Bravo message.” “ What! you a Spiritualist, and treat
with such indecent levity the solemn revelations of the deceased! ”
was the sarcastic comment. And when, in giving evidence in the
police-court, I cautiously added to an answer, “ But you must not sup¬
pose that I believe all that about ‘ Allie ’ ” (the supposed spirit of
Dr. Slade’s wife), poor Mr. Lewis exclaimed impatiently, !‘Then I
don’t know what you believe! ” Half the sneers against Spiritualism
assume our credulity on this point of identity.
Indeed, the public is very much in the mental condition of Spiritualists
themselves up to a comparatively recent date in the movement. They
can conceive no other agencies than that of which the tradition has
never altogether ceased, but when the supposition of that agency is
manifestly absurd, the public very naturally imputes the fact to mere
vulgar imposture. We, on the other hand, if not yet agreed upon
alternative causes, are, from our experience, far more critical of pre¬
tensions to identity than most outsiders, who are unacquainted with the
difficulties of the subject, would be. “ Give me such a test (of identity)
and I will believe,” once said to me a friend, naming one that was open
to the objection of thought-reading, mesmeric influence, and other
possibilities. “ Then you would not find your credulity sanctioned by
half a dozen Spiritualists of experience,” was my reply.
But I am getting too discursive. The object of this letter, after a
personal disclaimer, has been to recall attention to the proper business of
organisation. It is not because I have quitted an Association which has
failed even to set about that business (though this is not the proximate
130
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 14, 1879.
reason of my secession) that I can be indifferent to a cause which it
might, and I hope will yet, do much to advance.
C. C. Massey.
Temple, 8th March.  
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF ST. THEEESA.
Sir,—I have not had the fortune to read the Life of St. Theresa^
edited by Cardinal Manning, from which work there is an interesting
extract in The Spiritualist of February 21st; but I cannot help thinking
that there are certain passages in her life and writings which his
Eminence would not be likely either to publish or to endorse, now that
the light of modern Spiritualism has been so widely spread, and now
that a knowledge of the phenomenon of spirit materialisation is under¬
stood outside the convents better probably than within them. Spirit¬
ualism is certainly not only, as one of your valued correspondents
lately remarked, “ an aid to religion in enabling us to understand con¬
ditions and doctrines of which it gives a reflection ; ” but it is also an
aid, and a very potent one too, to teach us discrimination in doctrines,
as well as in spiritual matters generally, and to judge concerning other-
world-lore better than the churches have been sometimes able to dis¬
criminate for themselves hitherto: so one can hardly suppose that so
far-seeing and cautious a prelate as the Cardinal, with so many means
of information as he has, could have kept himself blind to the en¬
lightened and pure standard of morality which modern Spiritualism has
erected in England, and so generally sustained; or callous to the in¬
struction which it is so well able to afford to the highest on this side of
life, through its more than mundane faculty of discernment, and power
of separating the tares from the wheat, and the wheat from the chaff.
Surely if modern Spiritualism has taught churches and individuals one
thing better than another, it has been of especial service in bringing back
to their consideration that very ancient lesson which teaches the
necessity of guarding themselves against false prophets—wolves in
sheep’s clothing ; in warning them to put no trust in any spirit because
it assumes a high title, still less in one who, under such prestige, would
seek to tarnish in the remotest degree the purity of confiding innocence :
for that such deception has been practised on persons who have dedi¬
cated themselves, in all sincerity, to a religious life, and who have even
attained the alleged odour of sanctity, can scarcely be doubted, since
the torch of Spiritualism has been raised. Such, indeed, appears to be
the craft of some spirits, from whom no avoidance of the world can rid
persons—nay, the very avoidance seems an incentive tothem—that they
have even assumed the character of the highest ideal of perfection that
their unhappy dupes could conceive, in order the more effectually to
delude them and work their own ends; and have been, moreover,
successful in their art of hoodwinking not only the individuals they
have obsessed, but also the fraternities of which their victims have been
members—fraternities that have been, all alike, all too unmindful of the
ancient and useful caution, “ If any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is
Christ, or there, believe it not.” So it is well indeed that Spiritualism
should have come at length as a mentor to one and all the churches in
these latter days. People laughed when the Daily Telegraph told us
that Mrs. Girling said, fj I-tell you the gospel dispensation closes with
myself. Christ commissioned me.” But when Mrs. Girling had said,
“ There is no death even of the body for the Lord’s people, Christ has
told me this,” and when very soon afterwards a strange mortality
afflicted her camp, people then looked grave, and whispered to each
other, “ There shall arise false Christs.” And the time may come when
the same sentim ent may he generally expressed concerning some acts
countenanced by far higher and more widely spread authority than that
of Mrs. Girling.
Let me here give some passages from the writings of St. Teresa,
taken from a book called Le Monde Spirituel, ou Science Chretienne, by
M. Girard de Caudemberg, published by Deatre, of Paris, 1857. M. de
Caudemberg uses the text of d’Arnaud d’Andilly’s translation from the
Spanish. M. de Caudemberg expresses great admiration for the cha¬
racter of St. Teresa, and she certainly was a very powerful physical
medium. M. de Caudemberg calls our attention especially to certain
sermons which she was in the habit of addressing to the nuns under her
charge, and of whom she was the chief director. Here is a specimen of
her style—“ Thoughts on God’sLove” being her subject—and with a text
from the Song of Solomon, the saint thus addresses her female wards;
and this sermon her Church has thought proper to preserve and
endorse:—
“ 0, souls cherished by God ! let not the ignorance of what happened
in a condition joyful as that is in which you found yourselves disquiet
you, through the apprehension of having failed in your duty towards
Him; for can you believe that your Divine Husband permits you to
dissatisfy Him, or to be otherwise than more agreeable than ever, at the
time when He manifests towards you so much love and tenderness, as
appears by these words, ‘ You are all beautiful, my beloved wife,’ and
other similar terms that we read of in the Song of Solomon r And
can you suppose that He does not give Himself entirely to you
when He sees that you give yourselves up so absolutely to Him, so
that the transport and violence of your love, making you beside your¬
selves, leave your judgment no longer the power of action.”
“ Happy would be that death which should cause a person, through
the ardour of her love for her God, to expire in His arms ! And this
love is so violent, that if His Supreme Majesty did not teach the soul
that it would be pleasing to Him that you should continue to exist, the
weakness of nature could not support such excessive joy without dying.’’
Then, again, Saint Teresa, speaking of her own experience, and
again taking a text from The Song of Solomon, says—“ Every one
knows that a kiss is a sign of peace, friendship, and alliance between
two persons. I ask you, then, my Saviour, to give me this peace, and
this kiss from your Divine mouth—which is, my daughters, the highest
favour we can receive from His infinite bounty, as you will see in the
sequel.
“ It may be thought that, since these words—to kiss, and from the
Ij mouth—have different significations, what I am about to say is folly,
because they can be explained otherwise; and, therefore, it is plain that
I we should not take the liberty of speaking thus of God, nor of using
| such terms before simple, rustic people. I agree that these divine words
| can be differently interpreted ; but a soul so inflamed by the love of its
| Divine Husband that it is carried beyond itself entirely (qu’elle est toute
I hors d’elle-meme) knows not how to employ other words, nor to give them
I another sense than that which they have naturally”
j Upon the above M. de Caudemberg naively remarks—“ I think that
| every candid man, on reading these passages from one of the most
| remarkable tracts written by the saint, will feel fully convinced that
I* | she actually did receive this caress—this kiss of God—in the intimate
| union with which this Master of the world designed to favour her—
| and that probably it was the same with some of the holy nuns to whom
these words were addressed.”
| The saint’s sermons must speak for themselves. I have only to
; remark that precisely the same materialistic experiences are recounted
by another shining light of the Homan Church—Marguerite Marie
| Alacoque, of Paray-le-Moneal, and of the Bleeding Heart. There is an
i article in The Spiritualist of September 17, 1875, which, quoting her
writings, says : “ One time, being before the holy Sacrament, I found
j myself invested with the Divine presence so powerfully that I forgot
myself and the place where I stood, and abandoned myself to the
! Divine Spirit, delivering myself over to the force of His love. He
j made me repose for a long time on His Divine breast.” Again she
j writes circumstantially, “Jesus Christ, my sweet Master, presented
j Himself to me in a blaze of glory, with His five wounds sparkling like
j five stars.” Concerning the above and other details there given, the
writer of the article remarked, “Here we have before us a spirit still
( ' suffering and a cruelly obsessed medium. Note, the spirit betrayed
) himself (as not a good spirit) by confessing himself as still suffering,
( and having yet to suffer, for he speaks of ‘ all the rest he has still to endure
) from without,’ and he calls on his poor victim to endure, and which
j she had to endure, ‘ a condition of agony harder to support than death
| itself,’ and to ‘join him ’—the spirit—* in nightly prostration.’ ”
( It is a matter for grave thought that of the three shrines which have
j been of late perhaps the most popular beyond all others as places for
} pilgrimage in the Homan Catholic Church, two appear—through the
j 1 light thrown by modern Spiritualism on materialisation—to have
j! become famous through nuns, whom we believe to have been obsessed
<. j by quite a different spirit from that which they believed possessed
| them ; while the third—that of Salette—has been only quite lately
) i branded as false in its origin by the new Pope himself. It had long
j been asserted by very many of the laity, and even by some priests,
) [ that the alleged vision of the Virgin seen by a boy and girl—Maximim
(| Giraud and Melanie Mathieu—who were keeping sheep in the moun-
j | tains near Grenoble, was only a false presentment; that the being
j | who really manifested was nothing more than a half-mad ex-nun,
I! Mademoiselle Constance Lamerlikre, dressed up in a smart costume
which she carried in a bandbox, and with which she had alighted from
! the diligence that travelled from Valance to Grenoble about the middle
| of the month of September, 1846. It had long been known that when
\ i her landlady, her neighbours, and the conductor of the diligence by
) j which she travelled accused her of the fraud, she replied, “ You may
) | be allowed not to believe it; but pray let others believe in it, because
j j it is so good for religion.” It was well known that Mademoiselle
) j Lamerliere had brought an action against the Abbfi Deleon for writing
| j about her fraud, and had lost her cause. We are told in Dickens’s
) j Household Words, “ The reception of the children’s secret by the Pope,
Pio Nono, is thus described by M. Deleon:—In the month of July,
I' j 1852, many cardinals and Roman prelates were passing the evening at
! the Vatican. The Pope deigned to entertain them with an account of
| the mysterious embassy of the morning, calling the first secret a silly
j stupidity, and the second a monstrosity, and saying that those absurd
| documents had been brought to him on that day by two fanatical
| priests, and had been immediately thrown among the waste paper.”
| Nevertheless, we find that the “miracle” was afterwards sanctioned
by the Pope. But now we find that the alleged appearance of the
) | Virgin at La Salette—where a magnificent church has been built over
(! the spot where Mademoiselle Lamerliere stood—after having been at
) ] first ridiculed, and then sanctioned by Pio Nono, has been lately pro-
> i nounced a deception by the present Pope, Leo XIII., after careful
(| examination of the shepherdess, Melanie Mathieu, who is now in Italy,
) | and probably a nun.
> j My object in writing this paper has not been to decry any form of
[! religion, but to express an opinion that all spiritual manifestations, in
11 churches or out of them, must stand on their own merits ; and to show
11 that modern Spiritualism teaches us discrimination in spiritual matters
[ i of all description, and puts a check upon presumption and assumption
i j in every place. My desire has been also to register a protest against
1 two observations lately made by one of your correspondents. The first
11 is that “ Spiritualism has little influence on our ideas about a future
i! life or theological dogma ; ” and the second opinion, to which I would
1 i express my entire dissent, is the allegation that “ there appears some
, i inscrutable law by which the enemy is permitted to shoot all his
rubbish on the Spiritualist side of the hedge.” Scrutator.
I SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN CHINA.
Sir,—Allow me to bring before the attention of your readers the
following interesting extracts concerning China, in a new work by Arch¬
deacon Grey, of Hong Kong:—
'} “In their acknowledgment and practice of various illusory arts for
! i the discovery of things hidden and future, the Chinese are not behind
i i the most superstitious of Asiatic or African races. They have always
' | manifested great anxiety to find out the course of fortune, and to fore-
11 cast the issue of their plans. There is scarcely a department of nature
Mabch 14, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
131
not occasionally appealed to as capable of affording good or bad
omens. Their daily conduct is shaped by superstitious notions in the
most momentous, as well as in the most ordinary, occurrences, and
physiognomists, diviners or soothsayers, fortune tellers, interpreters of
dreams, astrologers, enchanters, exorcists, spirit-rappers, witches or
consulters with familiar spirits, necromancers, shabdomancers or diviners
by rods, belomancers or diviners by arrows, serpent charmers, &c., are
daily—one might say hourly—called upon to exercise their delusive arts.
“ Spirit-writing is another variety of superstition with which the
Chinese are familiar, and it is popular with the literati and gentry as
well as the uneducated masses. It is frequently practised in private
dwelling-houses. There are, however, regular professors of the system,
and from morning until night they are visited by persons in every rank
and condition, seeking to ascertain what the future has in store. In the
room of the professor stands a small altar, with .offerings of fruits,
cakes, and wine; above it is an angel or spirit, named Sow-Yoong-
Tai-Sien. The votary kneels before the altar, and having prayed and
presented the offerings, calls upon the medium to inform him what the
spirit has to reply. The professor proceeds with his client to a small
table which stands in the corner of the room, and the surface of which
is covered with sand. There he writes mystic characters with a pencil
of peachwood. The pencil is shaped somewhat like a ‘ T,’ the hori¬
zontal piece being the handle of it. The end of the upright, however, is
hooked. The professor rests the right end of the handle carefully upon
the tip of the forefinger of his right hand, and the left end upon the tip
of the forefinger of his left hand. The point of the curve of the pencil
is made to rest upon the sanded table. Thus supported it moves ap¬
parently of its own accord rapidly over the surface of the table, writing
mystic characters, understood only by the professor and his assistant.
They are translated into Chinese by the assistant, who is always
present, so that the votary may have a perfect knowledge of what the
spirit has stated in reply to his question and prayers. The system is
also practised in temples in honour of angels or spirits: one of the
most famous of these is in honour of a spirit or angel called Lou-Shun-
Yaoug-Kson. It is situate in the street of the Horam suburb of the
city of Canton, called Wan-chu-kew-keock.
‘‘Of the professors of spirit rapping, the most distinguished in our
time was one named Yam Ma-asow. His establishment at Canton was
visited not only by persons curious to consult the spirits, but by men
wishing, if possible, to free themselves from the vice of opium smoking.
Yam Ma-asow undertook to effect this upon receiving from each opium
smoker a sum of money varying from two to ten taels of silver. Men
enfeebled through excess used to resort to him, hoping to regain their
strength. I observed that to such patients he gave a liquid which, like
the potion prepared by the exorcists, consisted of water in which the
ashes of a mystic scroll had been mixed. I was often astonished beyond
measure at the degree of confidence which Chinese, apparently in very
respectable positions, appeared to place in this remedy of the practi¬
tioner of the deceptive arts.
“ In China, as in other lands, there are persons—always old women
—who profess to have familiar spirits, and who pretend that they can
call up the spirits of the dead to converse with the living. It may be
said that the familiar narrative of the Witch of Endor has led to women
being credited especially with this power. Amongst nations, however,
who have no knowledge of the Scriptures, women have always been
notorious for the exercise of such arts; and of the witches of a large
Chinese city like Canton it may be safely said that their name is
‘ legion.’ Let me describe what occurred on one of the many occasions
on which I witnessed the practice of witchcraft during my residence in
Canton. One day in the month of January, 1867,1 was the guest of an
old lady, a widow, who resided in the western suburb of the city. She
desired to confer with her departed husband, who had been dead for
several years. The witch was called in; she was of prepossessing
appearance and well dressed, and she commenced immediately to
discharge the duties of her vocation. Her first act was to erect a tem¬
porary altar at the head of the hall in which we were assembled. Upon
this she placed two burning tapers, and offerings of fruits and cakes.
She then sat on the right side of the altar, and, burying her face in
her hands, remained silent for several minutes. Having awakened
from her supposed trance or dream, she began to utter in a singing
tone some words of incantation, at the same time sprinkling handfuls
of rice at intervals upon the floor. She then said that the spirit of the
departed was once more in the midst of his family. They were greatly
moved, and some of them burst into a flood of tears. Through the
witch—as a medium—the spirit of the old man then informed the
family where he was, and of the state of happiness he was permitted to
enjoy in the land of shades. He spoke on several family topics, and
dwelt upon the condition of one of his sons who, since his death, had
gone to the northern provinces of China—references which evidently
astonished the members of the family who were present, and confirmed
their belief in the supernatural powers of the female impostor before
them. There can be no doubt that she had made suitable inquiries
beforehand. After exhorting his widow to dry her tears, and on no
account to summon him again from the world of shades, in which he
was tolerably happy, the spirit of the old man retired.
“ I called upon one occasion upon a wealthy Chinese coal merchant,
whose place of business was at Fa-tu. This gentlemen, I learned, had
gone to his country house, summoned in all haste, because an enemy
had bewitched it. On the 14th of July, 1872, my attention was called
to a house in the Yan-wo-lu-street, of the Wong-sha district of the
western suburb of Canton. The doors were literally crowded with
persons of both sexes, and of all ages, attracted by the report that the
house was bewitched. On entering I found the inmates in a state of
terror. On the floor of the first hall were scattered broken vases and
pots, which, but a short time before, had been cast from their places by
an invisible agency.”
Charles Long.
NOSTRADAMUS.
{From the “ Pall Mall Gazette,*' February Pith, 1879). •
Zadicxel may have been deceived by the stars ; but the reputation of
Nostradamus, who charmed the leisure hours of Catherine de Medicis,
in her chateau of Chaumont, remains intact, if we are to believe his
recent commentators, the Abbe Thorne-Chavigny and M. G-uillaudin.
These gentlemen have recently been squabbling over the correct ren¬
dering of portions of the Centuries of the astrologer who left on record,
contained in 946 quatrains, all the remarkable events which were and
which are to succeed each other between the years 1559 and 1999. The
Abbe, who has been a student of Nostradamus, has this advantage over
his rival, that he can present certificates. In 1858 he published a work
on the Centuries, showing that Napoleon III. would strike his flag and
fly to London; and he saw MacMahon between the Empress and the
Republic. So great was his faith in the astrologer that he refused to
believe the rumour of the Marshal’s death in 1870. He immediately
wrote: “ If dead and buried, he will rise again ; for he is the English
chief, the English prince spoken of by the prophet, who is to sojourn too
long and to have under his orders the princes of the blood and the
marshals of France,” &c. In 1870 the Abbe, always by the light of the
Centuries, was able to announce the death of Victor Emmanuel, who
would be followed to the grave by Pius IX.; that Leo XIII. would
succeed Pius IX. in the lifetime of Henry V.; and that Muscovy would
diminish Turkey and attempt to throw her back into Asia. The Abbe
declares that the Archbishop of Rheims and the Bishop of La Rochelle
both heard him say at Paris in 1867, apropos to the quatrains on the
Universal Exhibition, “The Krupp cannon will take Paris.” Having
(as he says) announced a thousand extraordinary facts, the Abbe Thorne-
Chavigny declares that he has acquired a greater authority than other
commentators of the great prophet. What with the Abbe and M.
Guillaudin, we have a series of very remarkable interpretations, making
every allowance for the ambiguous style in which prophecies are usually
uttered. Not to go further back than the close of the last century and
the commencement of the great Revolution the commentators show us
that Nostradamus saw in the heavens the whole of that tragedy,
and predicted many of its more minute details. The fate of Louis
XVI., for example, is foretold in a remarkable manner, the follow¬
ing quatrain alluding to the arrest of his Majesty and the Royal family
at Varennes:—
Le part solus mary sera mitrS ;
Retour, conflict passera sur la thuille
Par cinq cens; un trahyr sera tiltre,
Narbon et Saulce par quarteaux avons d’huille.
The first line, being interpreted, means that''the King alone shall wear
the red cap. The second line and half the third foretell the attack on
the Tuileries of the 10 th of August by five hundred Marsellais, and the
rest of the quatrain the betrayal of the King by the Comte de Narbonne
and by Sauce, the grocer, of Varennes, who received 20,000f. from the
Convention for hindering the evasion of Louis XVI. Prophesying the
fate of Marat, Nostradamus alludes to the “angel of assassination” as
la Corneille, which is curious, considering that Charlotte Corday was the
grand-niece of Corneille. He also writes of the blood-stained statue:
tyrant murdered and people praying. And no sooner was Marat slain
than statues and altars were erected to his honour all through France,
and people invoked the “ blessed heart of Marat.”
Nostradamus, too, predicted the inventions of Montgolfier (Mont-
gaulfier, as he wrote the name), and the employment of a balloon at the
battle of Fleurus; and in the same quatrain the plunder of the Pope
between “ two rocks,” Rome and Avignon. In the sixtieth quatrain the
advent of Napoleon I. is thus foretold:—
Un Empereur naistra pres d’ltalie,
Qui a 1’Empire sera vendu bien clier.
Diront avec quels gens il se ralie
Qu’on trouvera meins prince que boucher.
The prophet also read in the future the success of Bonaparte at Toulon,
from which place he would drive a people that would afterwards be
hurtful to him, and that his tyranny would last fourteen years. It
lasted fourteen years five months and four days. From a simple
soldier, Napoleon, born near Italy, and more of a butcher than a prince,
was to become Emperor, to be valiant in arms, and to vex the Church.
To come down to still more recent events, Nostradamus foresaw the
flight of Louis Philippe, and that he would repose at Dreux to see if
the Revolution would accept the Regency. His remains now repose at
that place. It will be remembered how M. Emile Ollivier, on the 15th
of July, 1870, in pronouncing the declaration of war with Germany,
spoke of commencing hostilities with a light heart. Nostradamus pre¬
dicted this and all that ensued in his 8th Century, 34th quatrain, in
these words:—
En grand regret sera la gent gauloise. .
Oceur vain, leger, ci’onir tflmerite.
Pain, sel ne vin, eau venin ne cervoise,
Plus grands captif, faim froid, n5cessitd.
Nor did the captivity of the French army and its suffering from cold
and hunger escape the astrologer. In quatrain 45 he describes the
advent and the fall of Napoleon III. thus:—
Par le decide de deux choses bastards,
Nepveu du Sang oecupera le s&gne,
Dedans Lectoyre seront les coups de dards,
Nepveu par peur pliera I’anseigne.
By the death of two bastard.things the prophet meant the Constitutional
Monarchy and the Republic of 1848. As regards the last line of the
quatrain, “ The nephew shall strike his flag in fear within Lectoyre,” it
will be remembered how Napoleon III., without consulting the Com-
132
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 14, 1879.
mander-in-Chief, General de Wimpffen, ordered the army to surrender.
Lectoyre is the anagram of Le Torcy, a faubourg of Sedan. Nostra¬
damus, too, caught a glimpse of M. Gamhetta in his visions; for,
after perceiving the downfall of the Second Empire, he beheld a “ grand
exercice conduit par Jouvenceau’’—-or a great undertaking led by a
youth, and the armies surrendering to the enemy. M. Gambetta was
thirty-two years of age when he resumed his dictatorship. He is called
by the prophet Bragamas, which is the anagram of Rabagas with an
“ m ” too much. M. Thiers evidently troubled the visions of Nostra¬
damus on many occasions. He alludes to him under the name of
Hister (anagram of Thiers) in several quatrains. His election is thus
foretold:—
La liberty ne sera recouvr^e,
L’occnpera, noir, fier, vilain, inique,
Quand la matiere du pont sera ouvree
D’Hister Yenise fasche la R^publique.
M. Thiers became President before the territory was liberated or
recovered, and, curious enough, when in power he was often alluded to
as the inistre viellard (noir). He was proud, of low birth, if not unjust.
The “ pont ” is an illusion to the golden bridge built for the Germans to
induce them to retire, and Venice means the Legitimists being angry
with the Republic, the Comte de Chambord having long inhabited that
city. Nostradamus also beheld M. Thiers laying waste an unhappy
Republic, or putting down the Commune, for his sixty-fourth quatrain
runs thus:—
La Republique miserable infelice,
Sera vastee d’un nouveau magistrat.
Leur grand amas de I’exil male fice
Fera Sueve ravir leur grand contract.
The last two lines refer to the satisfaction of the Suevi or Germans at
having taken so many French prisoners. In another quatrain Hister is
described as encountering wild beasts, the Germans looking on—“ quand
Rin enfant Germain observa.” Now, during the Commune the Germans
occupied several of the detached forts round Paris, and they are popu¬
larly supposed to have indulged freely in champagne whilfe observing
the blazing capital.
As concerns the future, Nostradamus not only assures us that the two
towers of the Palais du Trocadero and the new Opera will fall down,
but he gives us an insight into even more important matters. Referring
again to Gambetta, he says that:—•
Un dubieux ne viendra loing du regne,
La plus grand part le voudra soustenir.
Un Capitole ne voudra point qu’il regne.
Sa plus grande charge ne pourra maintenir.
Which clearly means that the chief of the Opportunists, whose policy
is unsettled and tortuous, will nearly attain power. The majority in
the Chamber would like to elect him, but the Capitol, or Senate, will
not; nor will he be able to hold his position. Another quatrain pre¬
dicts that the three illegitimate parties in France—the Imperialists,
Orleanists, and Republicans—will quarrel, and that the Due de
Bordeaux, now Comte de Chambord, “Le Grand Selin,” so called
because Selene was an old name for Bordeaux, will arrive. The
Orleanist party is alluded to as the greatest, because it is nearest to
the Legitimate Monarchy, at the same time as least in importance;
and we are told that it will keep its ears open to take advantage of
anything which may turn up. This is certainly a wonderful descrip¬
tion of the present position of the party in question, which has almost
entirely dwindled away, and which is in a state of expectancy resembling
that of Mr. Micawber.
If we are to believe the great prophet, the Revolution is destined to
end in 1881—the year after the Septennate of Marshal MacMahon
was to have been brought to a close. Can it be that M. Gr6vy will not
last more than two years ? In the death-throes of the Revolution
Paris is to be destroyed, and, according to the interpretation of
M. Guillaudin, Lyons will then become the capital of France. The
Abbe ThornAChavigny, as a clerical, holds, however, in favour of
Avignon. As he reads Nostradamus, Henri V. will disembark at
Marseilles from a steamboat (le feu, ou la vapeur, par des tuyaux
mettra en mouvement le davire), and will conquer Napoleon IV.
MacMahon will offer his sword to the King. The Orleanists
will efface themselves. There will be a revolution in Germany, and
Alsace and Lorraine will raise the white flag. The English will be
conquered and lose their preponderance at sea, Henri V. “ driving
those pirates from the waters.” His Majesty will then restore to the
thrones of Spain and Naples their legitimate Bourbon Sovereigns ; he
will pacificate Germany and terminate the Eastern Question by cap¬
turing Constantinople and occupying Egypt. Added to this, Greeks,
Arabs, Russians, Jews, and Protestants are to be converted. There
will be one fold under one shepherd, peace on earth, and goodwill to
men. With regard to the Due de Bordeaux, Comte de Chambord, or
Henri V., the prediction of Nostradamus is curious enough. After
forty years of exile he is to reign for forty years. He was driven into
exile on the fall of Charles X. in 1830, and forty years later he returned
to France (in 1871) and visited Chambord.. Nostradamus probably
thought that the Royalist Chamber of Bordeaux would have proclaimed
the Restoration, butinihishe was in error; and it is now very uhlikely
that Henri V. will reign—if he ever does reign—for forty years. In
1881 he will be sixty years of age, and Mr. Thoms would never hear of
him reaching 100. At the death of the King we are promised another
Republic, without any “ Terror,” which will be replete with all the
blessings of the mildest monarchy, the influence of the great King sur¬
viving him. In September, 1999, will come the end of the world, and
the dead will rise from their graves.
Two great prophets—Nostradamus and Malachi—have therefore fixed
the day of judgment at about the same period. The former specifies a
date-, while the latter says that “ the tremendous Judge will judge the
people,” when Petrus Romanus sits in the Pontifical chair—the twenty-
ninth Pope, dating from Alexander VII. Leo XIII., alluded to by
Malachi under the motto “ Lumen in ccelo ” (probably because there
is a comet in his coat of arms), is the twentieth Pope. The world is
therefore to witness the reigns of eight more Pontiffs before the second
Peter and last Pope ascends the throne, and should any of them, like
Pius IX., exceed the “ years of Peter,” the list may not be exhausted
before the date given by Nostradamus. Nineteen Pontiffs occupied the
Holy See for 244 years; there remain ten to reign for 120.
We may mention, in conclusion, that Nostradamus plainly predicts
that London, as well as Paris, will be destroyed; that England will be
the scene of a great social revolution, and that the Prince of Wales,
much regretted by his mother, will fall fighting against the Socialists
and a foreign foe. The prophetic quatrain runs thus
Le prince anglais, Mars a son cceur de ciel,
Youdra poursuivre la fortune prospere;
Des deux duelles, Tun percera le fiel,
Hay de lui, bien ayme de sa mere.
And were not the decrees of fate irrevocable and our belief in
Nostradamus and his commentators unlimited, we might at once begin
to take precautions against an event which must be close upon us.
ij “ Spirits Before our Eves.”—Mr. Harrison says“ In another
column Mr. Massey speaks of the general absence of evidence of spirit-
| identity in connection with spiritual phenomena, but I suppose he means
in connection with the phenomena of spirit circles only. In my new
book on Spiritualism, now at press, I think that, striking an average,
there is a thoroughly proved case of spirit identity on every second page
throughout the whole volume. It is true that the book deals chiefly
with spontaneous apparitions; but I have discovered and explained how
these appear subject to some of the laws which govern ordinary materiali¬
sation manifestations at seances. The title of the book is Spirits Before
our Byes, not Spirits Without a Medium, which was the name originally
announced. Many speculative subjects have been rife in Spiritualism
during the past year or two, so a few new books establishing the fact of
| spirit identity in connection with a portion of the phenomena may prove
| useful.”
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
I “ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Just Published,
SPIRIT-IDENTITY,
By M.A. (Oxon).
Cloth 8vo, red edges, price 5s, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
| Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens,
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London,
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GrEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Vay (Countess Wurmbran
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
March 14, 1879,
THE SPIRITUALIST
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but'the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not In any way connected with each
other.}
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor oi
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BU ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician.- Vol. I. Gt. flarmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III. „
TheReformei „ IV. „
The Thinker. „ V. . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers toEver-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil . .
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
. he Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures
*. d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
6 0
7 0
2
3
3
7
3
7
2
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) •
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by This Spiritualist Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds . . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
foresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ....
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal)
Threading my.Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry .Callaway, M.D. In six parts
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. , 10
Awas-I-Hindi; or, A Voice from the Ganges.by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
Sianation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyar, M.D. , . 12
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople . ... 1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three veils. . . . . . . .18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
18 0
12 C
16 0
7 0
10 0
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism And
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
now to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.'
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is, Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, TT.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate seientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, hut also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to he
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; But what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.’’—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id, post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—'
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Klslingbm-y — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Cmvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God-
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opiriions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism—Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contam records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Variey, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes's
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnagejpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
M, (OXON), ’ ON
PSYCHO GRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
synopsis of contents.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Bums, Mr. H. D. Jeneken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E.H.Valter,J.L. O’Sullivan
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—^Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wvld
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—^Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price Ss. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post tree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful hook to place in public libraries.faud to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ o! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Riehmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writmgs were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea,
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals
ByEmile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
xVl.—Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.
Oxon.”
XVII Th y Love. By Florence Marryat.
xVllI.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adeima Yon Vaj-
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Bainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burxe.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Kev. C. Maurice
Davies,*D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem Spirituahsm. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna -Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.’’
XXIX.—A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX “ My Saint” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI.—The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epos Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIH.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.— The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship o
“ M.A, Oxon."
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen).
XXXVlI.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVlII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W.H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. Bv Alex.
Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII. Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. By Lisette M akdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XL V.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Prioa Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 14, 1879
Iv
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. P. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, Janies
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
MRS. PARKER’S NEW ART OF HEALING.
(Scientific, Psychological, and Restorative.)
66, WARWICK STREET, BELGRAYE ROAD, S.W.
N.B.—^References to eminent medical gentlemen.
Lectures to Ladies on Wednesdays, rat 3 o’clock: subject,
‘ Health.” Her Tonic for the Skin gives youth and bloom,
instead of age and wrinkles. When conditions, are favourable
Mrs. Parker is clairvoyant.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
IN thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiometer, and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not), they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palm's of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping oyer the hands. The first
indications will probably be table Sitings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” • Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
’ Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings,
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor 3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. " Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
tart 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Biile Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post,
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobolejaw Ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imagtmngs. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Itussell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.’'
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
" Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.’’
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himselt.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If oui readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents... . The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all wliile offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
'“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lavs.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B. An
irate member of the 1'own Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
J “ Wobblejaw Ballads,'’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll
1 The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price Ss., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER n;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
OHAPIER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies; at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—Tntrovision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retro vision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—CoL Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Exta tics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S ii ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of 1‘nrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets,Cmtals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications o»
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan
ity. Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,-
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of-Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Cdylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Wiichcratt—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt In Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Minor
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Wat r
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep-Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Ti-avelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Cone udi
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Bevehidgb & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-laue, London E.O.
