Registered as a Newspaper,
03^ ^^YdSO^OG^lC^Ii ^dl^KCS^.
#lb^sf Sl^fcos^apr rxrtmKf^jEy bHIj Spnlwalism hx (&xml §rifaht»
THE SPIRITUALIST is regulariy on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 277. (Vol. XL—No. 24.) LONDON: FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Spiritualism in America.—By Emily Kislingbury 277
A Clerical View of Spiritualism. By the Rev. 0. Maurice
Davies, D.D.      ... 279
The Psychological Society of Great Britain;—Mr. Serjeant
Cox’s Position in Relation to Spiritual Phenomena—
Slate-Writing Phenomena, or “ Psycography"  282
The Spiritualist for 1878     282
The Banner of Light ior    282
Man as a Spirit; and Spiritual Phenomena as Produced by
the Spirits of the Living. By George Wyld, M.D. ... 283
Form Manifestations:—The Evolution of a Materialised
Form from a Materialised Form—A Spirit-Postal
Operation       287
Form Manifestations through a Private Medium. By
Charles Blackburn     287
Correspondence:—The Library of the National Association
of Spiritualists — Problems — Spirit Drapery — Mr.
Rita s Mediumship 288
Paragraphs:—Psychology in Hackney, 281; The Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 282 ; A
Novel Mode of Testing Spirits, 286 ; Mediumship, 286 ;
The National Association of Spiritualists, 288; Mrs.
Woodhull in London     288
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
P"PHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
al to has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
VV allace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;sHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein): Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. 0. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon,M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling*
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson. M.D. (Australia): and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Oapucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
WL. CANEY, photographer. Studio
• opposite the Unity Church, 151, Upper-street,
Islington, London, N.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr, Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for December, 1877.
Friday, Hth.—Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Library Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee's Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, lAth.—Trance Address, at 8 p.m. Mr. W. J.
Colville.
Wednesday, \9)th.—Inquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Friday, 21s£.—Seance Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Friday, 28th.—Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
CHRISTMAS CLOSING.
The Offices of the Association will beclosed from December
24th to December 26 th, inclusive.
MR. COLVILLE’S ADDRESSES.
Mr. Colville’s Meetings, which have been changed from
Saturday afternoons to Tuesday evenings, at 8 o’clock, are
free to members and friends.
THE LIBRARY.
The sum of £5 has been subscribed by Mr. Peterson towards
a fund for purchasing additional books for the Library, on
condition of a to’al of £30 being raised. Friends are in¬
vited to give their kind assist ince in this matter.
 E. KISLINGBURY. Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
ANGHAM HALL, 43, Great Portland-street,
London. W. J. COLVILLE delivers an Inspirational
Oration followed by an Impromptu Poem (subjecls chosen by
the audience), on Mondays at 8 p.m. Admission free to
balcony. Reserved, seats 2s.; unreserved, Is.
NEW AND ELEGANT GIFT-BOOKS FOR THE SEASON.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
 Willesden, N.W. 
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
<fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER’S pamphlet
on Curative Mesmerism, price 6d.; also a pamphlet on
Clairvoyance, price 4d. To he had from the author, 10,
Berkeley-gardens, Oampden-hill, Kensington- , 
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM upon the SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post Jree for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 68., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Ak§akop, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mdtze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
RIFTS IN THE VEIL.
A eolleotion of poems and of prose essays by Spiritualists,
and of inspirational communications through mediums.
Crown 8vo. Richly gilt. Will he published in time for pre¬
sentation as a New Year’s gift-book. Price five shillings.
THE LAZY LAYS.
Widely recognised by the press, inc’uding the Morning
Post, Graphic, and Court Journal, as one of the most elegant
and amusing gift-books of the season. Just published. Crown
8vo. Richly gilt. * Price 7s. 6d.
In order to put many copies of the latter book into circula¬
tion rapidly, and in order to furnish Spiritualists with two
good new gift-books at moderate rates, the above books will
be supplied at 10s. 6d. the two, post free, to all who order both
before Ilifts in the Veil is published. The LazylLays will
then be forwarded immediately on receipt of the order and
remittance; and will serve as a Christmas gift-book, whilst
Jlij'ts in the Veil will follow, in time for New Year’s day.
After the publication of \Ri.fls in the Veil, The Lazy Lays
will be obtainable only at 7s. 6d., its present price also when
purchased singly.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
The soul, and how it found me ;
being a narrative of phenomena connected with the
production of England and Islam, by Edward Maitland.
 Tinsley Brothers, Publishers. 
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
'13 EICHENBACH’S RESEARCHES, by the
It; late William Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E. 455 pp.,
demy 8vo. Second-hand, in very good condition. Scarce.
10s. Spiritwdist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pare, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms :—18c, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.;
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.OJ
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Deo. 14, 1877,
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Colder , Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Eitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6,. Loughborough-road
North. Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosyenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.VV.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, FInchlev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co„ New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjea, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Halloek, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratll, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
Council.
Adshead, W. P„ Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-viila. Cairns-rd..New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Harcomt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill, -
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-streetl Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94 Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosiand, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H-. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning. A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sheoter’s-liiH. Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H.T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park. S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson. Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.’
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Hichard, 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond,
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sir'awhrjjge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge.Mrs. G. N.. 84. Re.lcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
V hite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds. .
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square,West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
3, E. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllngbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, .St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa. Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-slreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, CUnton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson,Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochass^ca, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.* -
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
■WORKS BY
EDWARD
MAITLAND.
V Y Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. Cd.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Thubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiapbas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY AND RICH. London Spirit¬
ualist Of&CB.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
A STROLOGY, a popular sketch of Celestial
Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J. Pearce, author
of the Weather Guide - Booh, &c. Price Is. London:
Berger, Newcastle-street, Strand. Sent post free by the
author on receipt of twelve penny stamps; address, 3, Cedars-
terrace, Lavender-hill, S.W.
“ This work is the best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacquainted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily understood idea of what it really is ; and before under¬
taking to learn anything about it by any of my own works, I
advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.”—Zadkiel.
N.B.—The author gives private instruction in Astrology.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This boob, by an author
of considerableability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Yernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. 11. GledstaneS;Esq., 33, Orsett-terraee, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Ohinnery.Esq., 2,Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M, de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St, Pierre, Etterbeek, Brussels.
"OEVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyeho-
_I_\i logiques, fondS par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M, Leymarie.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
   Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint-
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.  
SPIRITUAL HEALING
BY JAMES REGAN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQ., LONDON, W.O.
N.B.—Patients desiring personal treatment will please
make appointment in first instance by letter; terms as per
agreement.
MR. W. EGLINTON
Has returned to town, and may be addressed,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON
S.W.
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN,
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours,
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense.- Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes.
MADAME LLANCORIS,
At home from 11 till 4, for Music, Trance, CJairvoyanee, and
Automatic Writing.
25, GUILFORD STREET, RUSSELL SQUARE.
MR. J. j. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
Ip W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
Li • engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Oampden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.   
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired).
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.O.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Snffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
RS. WOODFORDE, 90, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, from 12 to
5 p.m. For visits of friendship, from 8 to 10 p.m.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshali & Co.
T> APHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSENGER,
.iV ALMANAC and EPHEMERIS for 1878, containing
Predictions of the Weather and Mundane Events, Birthday
Notes, &c., &c. Post free, 7d. ; with Ephemeris, Is. Id.
Raphael's Guide to Astrology, containing rules and infor¬
mation whereby any person may calculate and judge a
nativity. The most original and simple work on Astrology
ever published. Cloth, gilt, 3s. London: J. E. Catty 12
Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.C.
rpAKEN IN EXCHANGE, on Wednesday,
JL evening, December 5, at the Soiree of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, a gentleman’s hat, new,
with deep mourning band, and marked with a monogram
inside; maker, Truefltt. If the same is brought to 38, Great
Russell-street, the hat left in ita place will be given in
exchange.
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen :—It is impos- I
Bible for me to find words to express the feelings of pleasure |
and gratitude with which I respond to your affectionate and
hearty welcome, and to the kind greeting you have extended j
to me this evening. I
I have been deeply touched, from the first moment of my |
landing in England, by the evidences of interest in my wel- |
fare, and anxiety for my safety, shown by innumerable j
friends, even by those from whom I could have least j
expected them, and I only wish I were worthy of half the I
kindness that you have lavished upon me. Much of the j
anxiety, though so kindly meant, was unnecessary, for I was |
favoured with very fine .weather on my passage home, and |
my only source of suffering was the knowledge that my
friends would be imputing all sorts of imaginary misbe- j
haviour to the winds and waves, and would be distressing j
themselves uselessly on my account. Well, I rejoice to be i
amongst you once more, joining in the work in which I j
really delight, with renewed health and vigour. And let me |
take this opportunity of returning my sincere and grateful |
thanks to those who have carried on the secretarial work in |
my absence ; especially to our friend, Mr. Algernon Joy, who I
has displayed even more than his usual efficiency and vigi- j
lance in keeping all branches of work, and all persons con- j
cerned, in the completest order.
I have been asked this evening to give an account of my |
spiritualistic experiences in America. Lest you should be dis- j
appointed with their paucity, let me remind you that my leave j
of absence was granted me solely on the grounds of failing j
health, and that I went away accompanied by warnings from !
my friends, and almost under a promise to some of them, not j
to enter into the pursuit of Spiritualism ; and, above all, not |
to attend seances or public meetings. For some time after j
arriving in America, I had neither health nor inclination for
any such pursuit, and I persistently refused all invitations to |
public receptions and platform-speaking. Nevertheless I j
had the pleasure of meeting and conversing with those |
honoured and distinguished representatives of Spiritualism j
who have long been so well known to us by their writings ;
and their activity in our cause. From them I learned far j
more than I probably could have done in my two months’ |
stay by personal observation, especially as at that time of j
year the dwellers in cities, as is the case with ourselves, are
dispersed in the mountains and watering-places, and the j
mediums are absent from their accustomed haunts. Here
and there, however, I had the opportunity of witnessing |
some interesting facts, which I will narrate further on.
The testimony of the majority of the Spiritualists with
whom I came in contact, pointed to the conclusion that j
Spiritualism in America is, as a movement, on a much j
lower footing than with us in England. It may be more !
widely spread, it may have a greater number of mediums, j
presenting a greater variety of manifestations; but, alas! |
such is the disorder and disrepute into which blind credulit3r, j
objectionable teachings, and unchecked and untrained j
mediumship have brought it, that most persons of good sense |
and of high moral character, and who value the peace and j
purity of their homes, refuse to associate with Spiritualists j
as a body, or to identify themselves with the movement. Of |
course, some hold back, as with us, from fear of Mrs. i
Grundy, who is as well known in America, I found to my j
surprise, as in England. The most earnest-minded Spirit- |
ualists look to England, and to this Association in particular,
to clear Spiritualism of its follies and errors, and to place the |
subject in its proper light before the inquiring world, as a
* An address delivered at the last soiree of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
valuable, and, as Mr. Sargent wrote to me, a a demon¬
strable truth.”
Of course there are in so large a country as America, and
where Spiritualism is numerically much stronger than in
England, a very large number of persons to whom the above
remarks do not apply. What I wish to convey is that the
movement has no adequate corporate representative before
the world, no standard of public opinion within itself, no
central point of attraction round which to shape itself and
by which to preserve its own integrity.
Mr. and Mrs. Newton, those earnest friends who stand at
the head of the Society of Progressive Spiritualists in New
York, have been for some time anxious that local organisa¬
tion should be attempted, if not upon the scale, at least
according to the system, adopted by the British National
Association ; and they called a few friends together, to hear
from me how the work was being carried on in England;
but, beyond the evening’s discussion, no result is likely to
ensue. Some friends in the Western States, as represented
| by the Rev. Mr. Watson’s Spiritual Magazine, are still
| hopeful of accomplishing organisation on a national basis,
| but their plans are, I think, likely to remain in the theoretic
| stage. In America national association is next to impos-
| sible, for geographical reasons; the country is too wide, the
| cities and centres are too far apart for any common action to
I be taken ; but, at least, an establishment similar to our own
| might exist and prosper in each important city, if the right
! people could be induced to take it up. But I found few
willing to join in such a work. One gentleman, with whom I
| discussed the subject very fully, and who has given it his best
| attention, assured me that he considered organisation imprac-
| ticable, and that, if it were attempted, he should feel it ^his
| duty to refuse to join in the work, especially on account of
| the number of objectionable persons who are connected with
| Spiritualism in America, and with whose opinions and
practices it has become identified.
At one time the American Spiritualists had amongst them
I a man eminently fitted to be their leader; one who had
| served and deserved well of his country, and who had shown
| himself capable of sacrificing his best worldly interests for
| the sake of principle; a man of varied experience and ac-
| quirements, a born orator, and one whose special talents for
| organisation and administration have been more than once
| recognised by the United States Government. I speak of
| Colonel H. S. Olcott. But the American Spiritualists did
] not know their best friend. When Col. Olcott perceived
| that Spiritualism was drifting towards imbecility from want
i of proper guidance, and that it was likely to founder from
| its own internal rottenness, he gathered together a remnant
| of faithful souls, and formed an association, or brotherhood,
I under the title of the Theosophical Society. The object of
| that society was to pursue the study of occult or psychical
| phenomena side by side with that of ancient and medimval
j philosophy, and to seek for an explanation of the causes of
I such phenomena as are now presented in the wisdom stored
| up for thousands of years in the writings of Jndian,
| Egyptian, and Grecian sages. In course of time, however,
| those members of the society who only cared for unlimited
| sensationalism in phenomena, and very little for philosophy,
I dropped off; the objects of the society were misunderstood
| and misinterpreted, and its leaders were regarded as the
| enemies of Spiritualism. Col. Olcott held steadily on his
| way, and the Theosophical Society, since reconstituted on a
| basis of secrecy, continues to flourish. Lately the work en-
j titled Isis Unveiled, characterised by one of its reviewers as
! among the greatest literary wonders of the age, has been
| written and published by that society’s learned and distin-
| guished secretary, Madame H. P. Blavatsky. Among the
8 many themes of which it treats, this book contains some
ol % J’qugqss af Jlpj jlijtfpttij ani of
Voi.uivie Eleven. Number Twe^ty-fouh.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14th, 1877.
. ; ; - f
SPIRITUALISM IN AMERICA *
BY EMILY KISLINGBURY. !
278
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 14, 1877,
theories concerning Spiritualistic phenomena of the deepest j
interest, and which I hope will ere long be studied and dis- j
cussed by the members of this Association; such, for in- j
stance, as the powers of the embodied human spirit, a field j
almost unexplored by us as yet, and offering abundant |
material for research; the fallacy of ascribing certain pre- j
sentations to the action of our departed friends; the part j
played by elemental and elementary spirits, terms at present |
confounded and totally misunderstood by those who have j
given public utterance to their opinions on the subject; the j
relation of mediumship to adepthood, and the comparative j
merits of each; the desirability of propaganda under the j
present conditions of Spiritualism, the necessity for more I
esoteric and recondite research, and many other points ||
equally important. So that, though America has failed to j
take the lead in building up the Spiritualist movement as an j
organic whole, it has at any rate contributed, and will doubt- j
less continue to contribute, valuable materials towards the j
structure, which the more critical and scientific English !
mind must hew and fashion, and fit into their exact and |
proper places. j!
I will now recount a few of the facts which came under i j
my personal observation, and speak to you of some of the |||
friends whose acquaintance I had the pleasure of making.
In New York, or rather Brooklyn, I will mention first and |J|
foremost our well-known friend and favourite author, Dr. |||
Eugene Crowell. I stayed some days at his house, and jji
found him a thoroughly earnest and sincere Christian j j
gentleman, in the highest and best sense of both words. | j
He admitted me to a short sitting with the medium Kelley, | j
of whom he speaks in the first volume of his work, j I
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism, and with whom he j j
has held for six years a series of interesting investigations, j j
some account of which, he intends to publish in due time, j j
Mrs. Crowell, who is in extremely delicate health, owes the j j
extension of her life, Dr. Crowell considers, to the healing j j
and mesmeric power conveyed through this medium. All j
the members of the family are strong Spiritualists, but their j
inquiries are conducted in the privacy of their own home, i
I was allowed the great privilege of visiting, in company j
with Dr. Crowell, a most interesting psychological a sub- j
ject,”e known as the u Sleeping Girl of Brooklyn.” This I j
young lady was thrown about twelve years ago from a car, j j
and dragged for some distance along the street. There- j
suits were an injury to the spine, which has kept her bed- j !
ridden ever since, paralysis in the lower half of the body, j
and total blindness. The right arm remained bent, with !
the hand fixed to the back of the neck for many years. The |
left hand was also firmly closed. In process of time sight j
became developed in the forehead and other parts of the j |
head, and it was found that the girl (Miss Fancher) could | J
read letters, though her eyes were closed. She next learned | j
to write with a pencil fixed in the tightly closed left hand, j
One day she asked for some leaves, and for some materials j
to make wax flowers, and by degrees she arrived at making
the most beautiful specimens of this art that I think I have
ever seen, colouring the flowers and leaves with the most
delicate and finely-shaded tints. About seven years ago
she was entranced for a whole fortnight, during which time I
she received no food. After this her eyes were opened, and |
she is now unable to shut them, but they are still sightless. I
Her right hand was also loosened from its position at the |
back of her neck, and she is able to use it now in her work j j
of flower-making. Dr. Crowell hopes some day to be | j
allowed to conduct a series of psychological experiments j j
with Miss Fancher, but at present the doctor who has charge | I
of her is averse to working professionally with a Spiritualist. !
My slate-writing experiences with Mr. C. E. Watkins I j
have detailed elsewhere ; I will only say here that I consider |
his mediumship of the most interesting kind, and especially |
adapted for scientific investigators, as all the phenomena j
take place in the light. j
One experiment of a peculiar kind which I made with Mr. j
Watkins has not been published; I will therefore introduce j
it here:— j
The subject of will-power, and of its probable influence j[
on some spiritual manifestations, having been much discussed j
between Mme. Blavatsky and myself, I determined to try !
an experiment in that direction. I went alone to Mr. '!
Watkins, and I asked him to write some single word on a
slate, and to turn the side of the slate so written on against
the surface of the table, in order that it should not be seen
by me. I, in my turn, did likewise. I then requested Mr.
Watkins to hold with me my own double slate, between the
folds of which I had placed a crumb of slate-pencil, and to
will that his word should be written on it. I also willed
that my word should be written. Mr. Watkins seemed
rather incredulous over the business, and was genuinely sur¬
prised, on opening the slate, to find that the word I had
willed should be written, was upon the slate. u Let us try
again,” he said. ^ Very well,” I replied; “but suppose
we write something more this time, a sentence of three
words.” Mr. Watkins wrote, as appeared later on, the words
God is love; I wrote Love is eternal. Mr. Watkins took
the folding-slate, with which we had before operated, into
both hands, saying “ I am impressed to hold the slate
alone.” Suddenly it struck me that he was stealing a march
upon me, and I insisted upon taking hold of the other end,
first satisfying myself that nothing had yet been written.
We heard the pencil at work, and on opening the slate
found two sentences written; one was, Mr. Watkins’s, God
is love ; the other was not my sentence, but a third, Truth is
mighty. I was immensely puzzled. “ This is the effect
neither of my will nor yours, Mr. Watkins; whose is the
third will that has been at work?” “I think I can tell
you,” he said ; u while you were writing your sentence on
the slate, I, having finished mine, began guessing what
yours might be, and I thought to myself1 truth is mighty; ’
that is how I account for it.” y I did not ask you to think,
Mr. Watkins, but to will; however, this is an interesting
experiment, and goes to prove still further the theory I have
in my mind. Now, let us try another ” but a sitter
was announced, and I had no further opportunity of testing
the strength of my own will-power against that of Mr.
Watkins.
I had also the pleasure of meeting, in New York,
with Dr. Bloede, a frequent contributor to the Banner of
Light; with Mr. Partridge, the publisher of the first Spiritual
periodical in America, the Spiritual Telegraph; with Dr.
Hallock, whom we all know so well and esteem so highly;
Mrs. Slocum, Mr. Farnesworth, and others. The three
last-named are, with Mr. and Mrs. Newton, faithful sup¬
porters of the Sunday afternoon conferences, which have
been kept up regularly for twenty years, and of the morning
and evening Sunday services in New York, at one of which
I had the pleasure of hearing a very good inspirational
speaker, Mrs. Nellie Brigham. In this connection I will
also place Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Jackson Davis, who are now
living in retirement in Orange, New Jersey, and who came
to see me in New York. I found them both as bright,
cheerful, and excellent as they are always represented to be
by those who know them; full of good sense, and over¬
flowing with the milk of human kindness. Like many
others, Mr. A. J. Davis now takes no public part in the
spiritual movement in America. Some other Spiritualists I
had the pleasure of meeting, who, though unknown to fame
as Spiritualists (for the reasons I have before mentioned),
yet hold honoured places among the world’s best spiritual
workers, and whose acquaintance is among my happiest
recollections of America.
In Boston I found our good friend and valued writer, Mr.
Epes Sargent, full of interest and activity in the cause,
but, I regret to say, in a very indifferent state of health. He
inquired with great eagerness after the friends and workers
on this side of the Atlantic, saying that he looked to them
to lead and shape the movement, and to put it on a proper
scientific footing. Mr. Sargent was giving much attention
to Mr. Watkins’s mediumship, of which he has published
several circumstantial accounts, and to that of Mrs. Boothby,
a materialising medium, whom I was unable to visit. He
is, I find, well known in America, as the author of several
school manuals on scientific subjects, which are much
esteemed.
At the Banner oj Light office I met and conversed with
Mr. Colby, whom I found very genial and enthusiastic ;
ready to make any exertion for the spread of Spiritualism,
and to assist deserving mediums. I also met Miss Lizzie
Doten, a most charming and sensible person, and our old
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 14, 1877.
270
English friend, Mr. Robert Cooper, who was so good as to
arrange a seance for me with Mrs. Thayer, with the kind
consent of Mr. and Mrs. Houghton, at whose house she was
staying, and who gave me a most hospitable welcome.
At Albany I was very kindly received by Dr. and Mrs.
Ditson, with whom I passed some very happy hours. Dr.
Ditson is the author of the foreign articles in the Banner of j
Light, and is a man of considerable learning. His habits |
are of the most ascetic kind; he seems to live only on a
few biscuits, with grapes and pears from his own garden,
and an occasional cup of tea. At Dr. Ditson’s recommenda- j
tion I made a detour on my journey home from Niagara to |
visit Mrs. Mary Andrews, formerly of Moravia, now living ;
at Cascade, near Auburn, who was the first materialising
medium in America. I am glad to say that she is one of |
the bright exceptions to the general depravity of American
physical mediums; every one spoke well of her, and the
impressions I gathered from my one day’s stay were all of |
a favourable kind. At the only seance I was able to attend
with her, there were no manifestations worth recording.
And now I think I have told you all my lesser experiences
—at least, those relating to Spiritualism so called. The
greatest and most wonderful experience, perhaps, of my whole j
life, one of which it is impossible for me to speak here in
adequate terms, is my acquaintance—my friendship—a
friendship to last I hope for life and for ever, with the being
called Madame Blavatsky. I can designate her neither as a
woman nor a man, for she combines in her nature the j
noblest attributes of both. For the proofs of her astonishing |
wisdom and her exhaustless stores of knowledge, I can only
point you to her great work, Isis Unveiled; and when you
have fathomed some of its depths, I will ask you to imagine
what its author can be like. The geniality, richness, and
generosity of her character, joined to its uprightness and
severity, are only equalled by the breadth, freedom, and j
boldness of her thought; by her magical power I have seen
her produce, irrespective of the hour, company, or place,
some of the effects for which mediums require certain given j
i( conditions,” and others which are unlike anything I have j
seen in the presence of mediums. Those who have known
Madame Blavatsky longer than I have done, have related to
me many striking instances of her marvellous power; but I
as a rule she objects to exercise it for the mere gratification j
of her friends. Two instances will, perhaps, suffice for the |
present occasion.
A gentleman (who related the fact to me) had been writing
at a little table in Madame Blavatsky’s room, and had laid
his handkerchief at his side on the table. After a time he
observed that there was a movement under the hankerchief.
He raised it up, and there darted towards him with a hissing
sound a small snake, apparently of a venomous kind. In j
his surprise and terror, the gentleman started backwards so j
suddenly that he fell over, with his chair, on to the floor. On
rising he saw no more of the snake, and it was nowhere to
be found. How did it come ? Where did it go to ? Was
it an illusion ? Whatever it may have been, Madame
Blavatsky claims that it was a magically produced pheno¬
menon. The modus operandi is the magician’s secret.
The other instance is of mesmeric power exerted upon my¬
self. I was reading, in a position from which I could see
into a mirror on the opposite side of the room, and I re¬
marked to Madame Blavatsky that the wall which was re¬
flected in the mirror appeared to be moving up and down.
She said, <e That is an atmospheric effect,” and went on
reading her Russian newspaper. I then began to watch the
mirror intently, and I saw Madame Blavatsky look at me
once or twice. I was aware that she had her eye upon me,
but that was all. I continued to gaze, and presently the
mirror became clouded and I saw distinctly, though mo¬
mentarily, two different scenes. The first was that of a sea
in motion, covered with ships, and might have been a port
or harbour. This faded out, like a dissolving view, and
was succeeded by a picture representing a group of men in
Eastern costume, turbans and long garments, such as is worn
by Hindoos.
The men seemed as if alive and conversing together.
When I told Madame Blavatsky what I had seen, she said,
“ That is right; that is what I wished you to see; I am
sorry I did not write it down, that you might have had the 1
proof to carry away with you.” Now, I have very slight
mediumistic powers of any kind, and have never been clair-
voyante in my life. It would seem, therefore, that some very
strong power must have been exercised by her in order to
produce such an effect the first time of trying.
And now, as to my conclusions in regard to that which I
saw, heard and read in America. I think, first, that we may
congratulate ourselves that certain wholesome checks have
operated in England to prevent such catastrophes in Spirit¬
ualism as are enumerated in an article in the last number
of the Chicago Religio-Philosophical Journal; checks to be
traced, I fancy, to the different social conditions existing
amongst us generally, and to the more severe standard of
criticism amongst English Spiritualists. Secondly, that we
must continue rigidly to sift and probe our own facts, and to
institute such measures as shall protect our mediums from
the public, the public from the mediums, and the mediums
from themselves. Thirdly, that we must not rest content
with explanations hitherto given and received, but must
examine and question every new theory which promises to
throw light on the sources of the phenomena, and above all
that we must ?mstrust all communications which we have no
means of verifying, coming from sources which have often
proved to be deceptive and illusory; and lastly, I feel more
strongly than ever that the phenomenal side of Spiritualism
as we know it now, separated from the Spiritualist philosophy
as it has been known from the most remote ages, is but a
new form of materialism, and that the worst danger we have
to guard against is a divorce between these two.
On the other hand, I am more than ever convinced of the
important nature of our inquiry, of the worthiness of its pur¬
suit by the best minds, of the necessity for their application
of the best methods, and of the ennobling effect on human
character of the truths brought home to us even by its
objective facts, when these are seriously studied, rightly pre¬
sented, and applied in the direction of self-culture and in
the service of the spirit in its struggle for the complete
ascendancy over every form of matter.
A CLERICAL VIEW OF SPIRITUALISM *
BT THE BEY. 0. MAURICE DAVIES, D.D.
I am going to offer you to-night the most egotistical lecture to which
you ever had the misfortune to listen. I warn you beforehand that I
am going deliberately to use the first personal pronoun a good deal;
not because I like to do so, but because it is simply unavoidable.
It is now rather more than twenty years since I first began my ex¬
amination of Spiritualism. I do not mean to say that I have been all
that time studying it, as I study it now, and hope to study it still more
devoutly for the future. But twenty years ago I saw enough to convince
me that there was “something in it,” and ever since that time I have
irritated both my friends and my enemies by persistently refusing to say
what I thought that something was. Some of them thought me insane,
and a good many more thought me wicked for looking into the matter
at all: that is, I have reason to know, the opinion of a good many
still. But on the other hand, those of my friends who were themselves
Spiritualists, held that I ought to make a formal confession of faith. I
differed from them, because I had never put myself in a position which
demanded any such explanation from me. Perhaps I had not altogether
made up my own mind; but, in any case, I kept my counsel, for the
sufficient reason that no one had the smallest right to ask me to do
otherwise; and I am not generally inclined to put my crude ideas for¬
ward unnecessarily. Now, however, the case is different. I recognise
the necessity for telling you, as far as I can, exactly where I stand in
the graduated scale of belief. I am not, pray understand me, claiming
any undue importance for my own personal opinions ; but I have asked
some of you to join me in the continuous study of what I call to-night
“Devotional Spiritualism”—what I called last week “ Christian Posi¬
tivism ; and, having done so, there is nothing for me but to make a clean
breast of it, and tell you exactly what are the present results of my
twenty years’ investigation. It would be obviously unfair to ask any of
you to join me in sucli a study, unless I tell you first of all what con¬
clusions I had arrived at, and left you to judge how far your sympathies
and mine would be likely to go together.
Hence you will see the necessity for that ever-recurrent first personal
pronoun with which I threatened you.
It was either in the latter part of 1856, or the beginning of 1857,
when we were living in Paris, that I got the first intelligent answer to a
question through the mediumship of my wife. It was quite clear to me
then that, let the people say what they may, let them laugh at the claims
of this modern mystery as I had, up to that time, laughed, there was, as
I said, “ something in it.” I am puzzled to think why it was, having
gone so far as this, that I did not set earnestly to work and try to dis¬
cover what that something was. Well, I was twenty years younger than
I am now, but I was even then in holy orders, and the answers to the
two questions which I proposed and kept closely concealed from the
* An address delivered on Wednesday, last week, at a public meeting at the Salisbury
Hall, 429, Oxford-street, London,
280
THE SPIRITUALIST. Deo. 145 187T.
medium, claimed in the most direct way to be a revelation from the Mf
spirit world, and also to be given as an evidence of the grea,t truth un- |>|
derlying Christianity—underlying, in fact, all religion—the existence of If]
God Himself. I (!
True, I had, at that time, sent forward no one person into the spirit 11 i
world for whom I had cared in this life., I have seen a very great many i H
pass away since then; but even so it is strange to me that I did not j (j
prosecute the subject as an evidence of Christianity. The subject took j)j
at once a great hold upon me, but more, I fancy, as a curious mystery j) i
which I felt I should like to solve, than—which was a later form it ! (i
assumed—a belief that it was either a gigantic imposture or the most im- ! j j
portant matter that could possibly claim attention. i / i
It would take me too long to tell you the manifestations we got, nor i (j
would there be any object in doing so. I have put them on record, and ! |
many of you have read them in print. Some of my friends, as I said, I j
felt irritated that I then gave them all my premises and no conclusions. 1 (j
Now I reverse the process. I give only the conclusions, and not the j j
arguments by which I arrived at them. I always felt that when anybody j 11
asked me the question, “Do you believe in Spiritualism?” they asked i(j
what it was impossible to answer in a monosyllable, or even a single j j j
sentence, because the reply involves at least three stages of belief, m
It might mean, Do you believe in the phenomena of Spiritualism ? to ! (j
take only one form; Do you believe that the table moves ? or Do you ; | i
say that it seems to move ? Well, not being a philosopher, I could have j j
returned quite a satisfactory reply to that demand. I am prone to m
believe in the evidence of my senses, and that was perfectly conclusive j j j
so far. Then comes the much more important question, What is the ; 11
source of the phenomena ? And here it was I hesitated. Even now, j (j
looking back over that long space of time during which I was, I believe, ! (j
in the true honest meaning of a much mistaken word, a sceptic, I cannot j j I
regret any hesitancy. I cannot think the time spent in investigation j (
wasted. It appears to me that the only way to approach so difficult and | [
delicate a subject is in the true spirit of inductive philosophy: to collect j j
and sift evidence, and on such evidence to found your belief. I know j (
this course does not suit the impulsive people. One friend of mine j [
(some of you will know to whom I refer) passed through all the stages I \
of implicit belief and utter incredulity in a week, and then wrote a book j j
to show how he had done it. He was a Frenchman. I am a more or i [ j
less phlegmatic Briton, and do not believe in doing serious things with ! (j
a hop, skip, and a jump: Lastly, there comes the great question of |(j
identification of spiritual agency, supposing the broad fact of such | |
agency established. ! | j
Now, what I used to ask my interrogators when they demanded, Do j
you believe in Spiritualism ? was just this, What do you mean ? Do you | \
ask me whether I believe in the phenomena ? or whether I accept the j j
spiritual explanation of them? or whether, accepting that, I believe that ||
the communicating spirits are our departed friends, as they so con- j j
stantly claim to be ? I do not think that was unfairly answering one |!
question by asking another. I really did not, and do not, know which i
they meant; and, moreover, I have a shrewd suspicion that they are | j
not quite certain on that point themselves. i (j
But now, to-night, still keeping to that threefold division of the sub- ! \
ject, which is simply a necessary one, let us see where we are. Let us j [ |
gather up the conclusions at which I, and, perhaps, one or two others | j!
who think with me have arrived, 1st, on the phenomena, 2nd, the spiritual ! (j
source of them, 3rd, the identification of the communicating spirits with | > I
those who were associated with us here, and who have passed on one | (j
stage in the journey along that road where we are following them. ! (j
1. The phenomena do occur. That is a matter on which everybody i j |
can exercise their senses. They may be simulated. Tricks may | (!
be played; true : and it would be very difficult to find out any domain i j> |
in which tricks could not be, and are not, played. Spiritualism would ! \!
be a much more wonderful thing even than it is, if it were impossible to It I
counterfeit it. We live in an age of adulteration, but this is not saying i j
that there is no such a thing as a genuine article. Believing in the j (j
phenomena of Spiritualism is very different from believing in every j j
medium who pretends to show them to you. I have been very much | j
censured for writing freely, when I believed that mediums were tricking ; |) j
but I know that those do best service to Spiritualism who try to divest j j j
it of shams. I believe in Christianity; but that is not the same as J(
saying that I pin my faith to every parson. This phenomenal aspect of jv !
Spiritualism is one where you are bound, nolens volens, to exercise your j (j
judgment. I did so, and, at a very early stage in my inquiry, was con- j j |
vinced that there was a large margin of manifestations which could not | j i
be covered by trickery or even explained by the much more amiable |(l
method of referring them to psychic force, unconscious cerebration, or m
rapport of minds. I have fully gone into all these, and relegated some 11 i
of the phenomena to those causes as their possible source; but I find, as I (j
Professor De.Morgan says in his admirable preface to the book From !>j
Matter to Spirit, that any or all of these explanations are insufficient i) I
to cover the facts. A substantial body of them remain, which are un- |(|
doubtedly genuine. The phenomena do occur. m
But does not the fact of trickery living on side by side with the j) |
genuine fact disturb you ? No more than the fact that the magicians !• (j
could do the same miracles as Moses, or the sons of Sceva as Paul. If i) j
Maskelyne did everything that mediums do that would not startle me, | ? j
because the phenomena occur to me when no professional medium is j (j
present—nobody who could deceive, if they would. I therefore repeat |(|
that, at a comparatively early stage in my inquiry, I became convinced j) |
that the phenomena did occur, and if they occurred they certainly | (I
demanded further investigation as to how they occurred, and why they | j j
occurred. What was their source? Recollect how they came to me
at first—claiming to be revelations from departed spirits, and to be sent j(|
as special evidences of God’s existence. It was impossible, I will not i; i
say for a clergyman only, but for any thinking man, to ignore the |(|
claims of such phenomena to further investigation, when he has once i(|
convinced himself by sufficient study that they did occur. This really \\ \
is the attitude assumed by the Dialectical Society in their admirable
report on the subject. I myself was a member of the investigating
committee; and I think I may say that the full conviction that the
phenomena did occur was settled in my mind midway between my first
examination of the subject and the present time, perhaps about 1866.
Nobody can say 1 jumped at conclusions. It was the old story of the
tortoise and the hare running the race. I certainly did not represent
the hare.
I am glad, I repeat, when I thus look back, and reflect that I did
proceed so leisurely in this matter. Even if I never read these retro¬
spections to anybody, it would be a satisfaction to me to know that I
had, to the best of my ability, thought out this preliminary portion of
my subject. It may, I feel sure, help those who are still lingering on
the threshhold, to know that it is not so hopeless as it may seem that
they shall one day arrive at a reasonable conclusion. That is what I
claim to have done. There is my first article of faith (remembering
my definition of faith as conviction based on reasonable evidence). I
know that the phenomena of Spiritualism do occur, just as I know any
other fact which has come under the direct cognisance of my senses.
2. I said last week that to call these phenomena spiritualistic was to
use a question-begging epithet; and I still think that the term Christian
Positivism is a better one, and the one I hope to adhere to in subse¬
quent studies of the subject. Bnt now I wish to tell you that, in my
own mind, the use of the word Spiritualism does not involve any
petitio principii—does not beg the question—because I claim to have
discovered, by ^the same patient method as I adopted in the case of
the phenomena, that the source is spiritualistic.
Taking the genuine phenomena (with the others I have nothing to
do), my reasonable conviction, based on observation and experiment, is
that—again to use the word given to me by Professor De Morgan—the
source is pneumatological, and not psychological: they are objective,
and the vast array of evidence shows me that they are simply what they
claim to be, manifestations from departed spirits—the communication
between the two worlds, in which I had professed my belief every time
I said, in the Apostles’ Creed, that I believed in the communion of
saints.
I must, you know, by the necessity of my position, look at these
things not only with my Bible, but with my Prayer-book, too, in my
hand. I believed in the communion of saints. What did I mean ?
Well, I meant the communion and fellowship between those two sections
of the church, the church militant here on earth, and the church
expectant in paradise; or, let us leave out the word church, and say
the saints on earth, and the saints in the unseen world. I believed (in
the glorious words of Wesley’s hymns) that these made but one
communion.
But what was my church, my congregation of faithful ones ? Who
were my saints ? The Bible saints ? the saints in the Church calen¬
dar? Yes; but far more those who, during these twenty years, I have
been sending on and seeing go from me into the unseen world. If I
read in my New Testament that it was possible for Lazarns to go back
to the house of Dives, was I to believe that it was impossible for one of
mine to return to me; for some spirit out of this body to communicate
with me in the body ? Where was the line of demarcation ? I could
see none; and so, you perceive, all antecedent improbability—all incon¬
gruity of such an idea with full faith in my Bible and Prayer-book were
removed, and my inquiry came to be a pure matter of evidence, just as
it had been in the former instance.
I cannot, as I said, pause to tell you how in all these years the
evidence has come to me bit by bit. I can only tell you it has come.
Few and far between have been the salient facts. They have required
much piecing together, and dovetailing into one another. The
Spiritualists have said that I was a hopeless sceptic, because I resolved
to labour and to wait. The other people said I was dabbling with a
tabooed subject—as, I confess, I was. In fact, up to a certain point, I
acted out the allegory of the “ Old Man and his Ass.” I pleased neither
party, because I was not a partisan. But I pleased myself. I have
satisfied myself by this long, patient investigation. I know I have not
jumped to any conclusion. I know that I have neither forced belief, nor
allowed prejudice to scare me away from an unpopular subject; and
now it boots not to say when, any more than to tell you precisely how,
I feel I have come out of the darkness into the light. I claim to have
established on reasonable evidence—as alone a Christian Positivist can
do to satisfy himself—
1. That the genuine phenomena of Spiritualism are Spiritualistic, and
not psychological; are objective from without, and not subjective, or the
product of one’s own mind ; and,
2. That these Spiritualistic revelations are not destructive of any
previous belief in Bible or Prayer Book, but, on the contrary, con¬
firmatory of such belief that they make present and vital that faith in
Christianity which before was very much of a dead letter (being based
only on uncorroborated evidence), and wholly a thing of the past. It is
so no longer. To the Christian Positivist theology is as purely an
experimental science as geology to the geologist, or chemistry to the
chemist.
I am not asking anybody to accept this testimony of mine. I should
be false to my own principles if I claimed to be dogmatic. 1 repudiate
it utterly. I ask you to take nothing on trust from me. What I ask
you to do, if we shall follow out these meetings for the study of
Christian Positivism, is to patiently investigate the matter here with
me, and at home by yourselves. If you can come to the same conclusion
as I have arrived at, you will find that the aid it gives to your ordinary
religious life is immense. I care not what the particular form of reli¬
gious conviction may be—church-life or chapel-life is utterly irrelevant
in face of the great fact which is thus brought home—literally home to
your consciousness that our two worlds—the seen and the unseen—are
not two worlds, but one; that the land where your beloved ones rest
after life’s fitful fever is not a land that is very far off, but one that
Dec. 14, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
281
stands related to the one we see around us, only as the summit of the
mountain stands related to the lower valley, from which mists and clouds
a moment hide the higher planes of life and light.
3. Then you will say to me—That is the one point on which I want
to be certified. Granted that the phenomena are genuine, and even the
source a spiritual one, are the spirits my spirits ? Is it my departed
ones who speak to me 1
Here, I think, comes in the case of those persons who hold that the
phenomena are genuine, but the intelligence is evil. This is the dia¬
bolical theory, which has never given me one moment’s trouble, but
has, in fact, encouraged me to go on investigating, because I saw that a
large number of serious-minded, earnest persons conceded two out of
the three positions I was interested in. They allowed the phenomena ;
they acknowledged that the source was a spiritual one ; but the spirit
was the Devil.
Now my experience of life shows me that there is never unmixed
evil, seldom, perhaps, unmixed good, to be met'with here. The normal
condition of things is that the evil is mixed with the_ good, and that the
responsibility lies upon us all to use the judgment God has given us so
as to choose the good and avoid the evil.
Applying this principle to the question at issue, I think it most likely
that the manifestations will be of a mixed character. What is the
result when I pass from theory to practice 1 Simply that my previous
judgment is confirmed. I will call this, not a third article of faith, if
you like, but an article of hope. The line where hope and strong
assurance pass into faith is no rigid one.
My firm hope—nay, why should I not, under my previous limitations,
say, my firm belief—is, that I have been brought into communication by
the means of Spiritualism, not only with strange spirits (why should
these gravitate towards me at all ?), but to those who were bound to me
by the ties of kindred or sympathy here, and who, if they have not
altogether lost their personality in the process of death, must retain
that sympathy in their new exalted nature.
Experiences of this kind would probably be too sacred, too delicate
for one person to communicate to another ; but I submit this to you,
that, if we allow the reality of the phenomena, and concede the spiritual
origin of them, the third position almost stands as a corollary to the
other two. If spirits are able and willing to communicate with me,
whom should I expect to avail themselves of the privilege ? Not the
devil—at least, I hope not. Not evil spirits, towards whom I feel no
attraction—but just those friends, those second selves, with whom my
feelings and interests were closely identified here, and for whom my
affection is not destroyed—nay, is intensified—by death and separation.
Do you think our appetency towards them is not met by appetency
towards us on their side ?
Accepting, then, this brief and meagre sketch of my own state of
mind, I ask you, what is the only logical conclusion to which it can
lead ? Surely we all desire to know as much as we can of what lies
before us in that new and untried sphere of existence to which we are
passing—they have passed—on.
They are, we assume, anxious to*communicate with us. Our subse¬
quent examination supports such an assumption with congruent facts.
What should be our attitude 1
We desire communion—I ask you to note that word—communion and
fellowship with those who are invisible under ordinary conditions to the
eyes of sense. Is there anything at all to guide us as to the conditions
of such communion and fellowship ? In plain words, did a departed
one ever come back to those who desired such communion, and, if so,
under what conditions ? Open your Bible at the record of the forty
days after the resurrection, and you will see that Jesus came back when
the broken circle of the disciples were—-doing what ? Sitting in circle,
breaking bread, as He told them, “in remembrance of Him.” There
we have, depend upon it, the very highest sanction for what we find set
down in our Prayer-books as the Communion. What a reality it lends
to the dead letter of a sacrament to find that it is the very means of
communion with those in the great home beyond !
I believe that when we have gone a little more deeply into this
matter of Christian Positivism, or Devotional Spiritualism—call it
which you will—this is the form our devotions will spontaneously
assume. We shall put ourselves literally in the position of those to
whom Christ reappeared when sitting in circle and breaking bread in
His name. Sacramental communion will hallow every stance; and no
doubt the greatest results will follow now, as they followed then. Then
the loved One stood in the midst so substantially as to satisfy the
sceptical Thomas. Why not now ? Why, at all events, should we not
try the experiment % Once or twice, timidly and furtively, we have
done so, and not without result. We want to do so regularly ; just a
few of the most earnest, the largest-minded of us. If the simple ritual
did nothing else, it would hallow the subsequent seance as nothing else
could do. Why should there appear anything incongruous in the con¬
junction ? Why, indeed, except that we do not look upon Spiritualistic
manifestations as the solemn thing we ought to do, if our previous
positions are certified ; and, therefore, we shrink from associating them
with what is always regarded (sometimes superstitiously so) as our
highest act of worship.
Mr. Haweis claims a mesmeric character for sacramental grace. So
do I; but I go a step further, and call it, not mesmeric, but spirit¬
ualistic. Never, I believe, do the earthly and heavenly horizons so blend
as in that one act of ritual which alone we owe to Christ Himself, but
which has, with so many of us, sunk to a mere formality.
In course of time it is very likely that some of us may be inclined to
let this service, at all events, take its turn with others in the simple
ritual of Christian Positivism. Last week I asked you to join me in a
brief exercise suggested by the memory of that great man, Chevalier
Bunsen, the anniversary of whose birth into the better life we were
keeping. We even concluded our prayer in the words he left us. To¬
day is the death day (so called) of Mozart; and—believing, as I do,
that all inspiration, musical as well as otherwise, is inspiration,
I should have liked to commemorate that departure with a service of
song.
We shall incorporate some of that great artist’s melody into our
devotions ; but the form of service we are going to use is a little modi¬
fication of that ancient evening service of the church called compline.
The very word is musical. It signifies the fulfilment—-the rounding
out of the religious exercises of the day. “ The custom of godly men,”
says Hammond, “hath been to shut up the evening with a compline
of prayer.” It will not diminish your interest in this particular office
if I tell you that the last time we cited it—being the occasion for
which I compiled it—was around the coffin of one who had newly
gone from us then, and who was very dear to more than one of us
now present.
Before proceeding to that, however, I should like to read to you the
conclusion of Mr. S. George Stock’s article in the Westminster
Review for October, 1875, to which I referred last week, and which
so thoroughly expresses my own views on this subject:—
| “ Instead, therefore, of involving ourselves any longer in needless
and endless perplexities by reducing the Supreme Power, whose effects
alone we know, to our own level, clothing it in the limitations of our
natures, and by so doing rendering it amenable to the human standard
of right and wrong—a standard which forces us to condemn what we
know of its proceedings—let us commit ourselves with confidence to a
j creed which contains all the ennobling elements of the old one, and
j which, harmonising with the highest results of thought, will terminate
the distressing- dissension so common at present, between heart and
head. If the emotions quail at the prospect of the step now, they will
j rejoice to have taken it hereafter. The fault of the creed, if a fault
| there be, is not really that it is too low, but that it is too high for poor
selfish human nature ; for even if we believe in the holiness of right, in
the loveliness of virtue, in the progress and ultimate triumph of man,
| and of a heaven on earth in the ages yet to come, our hearts may ask
the further question, ‘How is it with men? Can the individual be
born—and we know that he is so born at times—doomed to wretched¬
ness of mind and body, merely for the welfare of his race 1 ’ If we
| look not beyond the world of sense, we must reply that this tragedy
| has been enacted again and again, and that many and many a soul
I has been crushed under the Juggernaut of human progress. The idea
has been calmly faced by thinkers of our own day; it is not, therefore,
I intolerable. But if we fear it there is a way of escape—a door of ex-
i perience, or of pseudo-experience, opened just when the door of
authority has been shut, and, whether we seek it or not, it seems we
are destined to have thrust upon us the belief in a world where the
| crushed flowers may bloom again.
“ For, let none imagine that by such speculations as the foregoing he
is building up the religion of the future, or that Comte and Strauss
will be the prophets of the coming age. Religions are not made, they
grow. Their progress is not from the enlightened to the vulgar, but
i from the vulgar to the enlightened. They are not mere products of the
i j intellect, but manifest themselves as physical forces too. The religion
I j of the future is in our midst already, working like potent yeast in the
[ | mind of the people. It is in our midst to-day with signs and wonders,
i j uprising like a swollen tide, and scorning the barriers of Nature’s laws,
i i Yet, however irresistible its effects, they are not declared on the sur-
j | face. It comes, veiling its destined splendours beneath an exterior
II that invites contempt. Hidden from the prudent, its truths are re-
> i vealed to babes. Once more the weak will confound the mighty, the
j | foolish the wise, and base things and things despised, it may be even
) | things that are not, bring to nought things that are ; for it seems cer-
| tain that, whether truly or whether falsely, Spiritualism will re-
i establish, on what professes to be ground of positive evidence, the
| fading belief in a future life—not such a future as is dear to the reign-
(i ing theology, but a future developed from the present, a continuation
(| under improved conditions of the scheme of things around us. Further
) j than this it is impossible to predict the precise development which
) | Spiritualism may take in the future, just as it would have been impossible
< I at the birth of Christianity to have predicted its actual subsequent
) | development; but from the unexampled power possessed by this new
) i religious force of fusing with other creeds, it seems likely in the end
(I to bring about a greater uniformity of belief than has ever yet been
) j known.
) | “ Meanwhile, it is the absence of oneness of feeling that really needs
(| to be regretted. We have seen that all the essentials of religion can
) i be retained by the so-called Atheist. Might it not be expected that
) j professors of orthodoxy, persons whose religion is their boast, when
< j they find in such a man a love for his fellows, no less disinterested, an
j j effort after advancement no less earnest than their own, would rejoice
)| to join with Theodore Parker,* and every truly enlightened Theist, in
(| claiming him as really at one with them, despite intellectual differ-
j: ences ? But no; they stand at the ford of Jordan, and if the passer-by
) | cannot frame his lips to pronounce their shibboleth, they slay him,
11 though all the time he was an Israelite and a brother. And yet the
) j war with evil demands that the forces which make for good should be
)i united, nor is there any element wanting to human unity except the
(i recognition of it. We are all of one kindred—children of mystery ;
j i all of one language—the voice of Nature ; all of one creed—the creed
) | of ignorance, that mighty Catholic church to whose tender bosom every
(| thought-weary wanderer is folded at the last.”
/1 Psychology in Hackney.—Mr. Charles R. Williams, secretary to a
(| local society in Hackney, informs us that public meetings are held at
(I 6, Field -view, London-fields, London, every Monday evening, at eight
) I o’clock, and that on Monday, January 7th, a lecture will be given there
(i by himself, on “ The Method and Utility of Mesmerism, or Electro-
) i Biology, with Experiments.” On Monday, Feb. 4th, Mr. W. Reed
|j will deliver an address at the same place, upon “ Dreams.”
282
TllE SfIBIftAElSl1.
Deo. 14, 1877,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
ME. SEKJEAHT COX’S POSITION IN RELATION TO SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
At a recent meeting of the Psychological Society, held at 11, Chandos-
street, Cavendish-square, London, Mr. Serjeant Cox presided.
Mr. Serjeant Cox opened a discussion on the subject of “Trance,”
and allied phenomena, by describing the physiological symptoms. He
added, that in that state the body could live for a long time with
scarcely any food, and that the case of the “ fasting girl” in Wales was
a shameful one, in the matter of the parents having been punished, in
consequence of the ignorance of medical men about such abnormal
states. Where there was so little drain upon food for muscular exertion,
more sustenance than might be supposed was possibly derived from the
air, as in the case of orchids. As to the mental and physical phenomena
presented by mediums in and out of the trance state, the more he saw
of the phenomena, the more convinced was he that they originated with
the spirit of the medium in another state of consciousness. The com¬
munications were just those which the medium would be likely to give;
and the descriptions of “heaven” andThe next world, always agreed
with the particular ideas of the particular sensitive. He had seen
materialised hands and arms coming from a medium whose hands were
held; they were like those of the medium, and he believed that they
were produced by himself in some abnormal way.
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald pointed out that the chemical conditions
which sustained plants in air were the opposite of those which would
sustain the life of animals.
Mr. W. H. Harrison admitted that Mr. Serjeant Cox’s theory fitted
the phenomena observed at a certain proportion of seances, but thought
that Dr. Carpenter’s example of straining one hypothesis to cover every¬
thing should be avoided. He should like to know how the phenomena
in those haunted houses in which no mediums were present, could be
explained by the “ spirit-of-the-medium ” theory. Lord Townsend’s
once-haunted house at Rainham might be taken as an example. And
if Mr. Serjeant Cox were alone in a haunted house, and witnessed the
phenomena, who should he conclude to be the medium ?
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that he had spoken only of the phenomena
through mediums, and not those of haunted houses. The latter might,
perhaps, be produced by some order of sub-human spirits; at all
events, if they knew more than men they were very clever in concealing
their knowledge. (Laughter.)
Mr. Harrison wished to know, supposing the various guests at Rain-
ham to have recognised the ghostly “Brown Lady” as a person who
once lived in the house, would Mr. Serjeant Cox think her to be the
spirit of that person, or a ghostly “ counterfeit presentment ’’ indus¬
triously manufactured by sub-human goblins.
The President reminded the listeners that he was only speaking
hypothetically. He did not admit the reality of haunted houses; before
doing so he should like to see one. (Hear, hear.)
Shortly afterwards the proceedings closed.
SLATE-WRITING- PHENOMENA, OR “ PSYCHOGRAFHY.”
At a meeting of the Psychological Society held on Thursday last
week, Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary secretary, read from The Spectator
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace’s letter on some remarkable slate-writing phe¬
nomena he had witnessed, which letter has already been published in
The Spiritualist.
The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., in opening a discussion on the
subject, suggested that the word “ psychography ” should be adopted
to describe writing produced without human hands, in the presence of
Dr. Slade and various mediums. There was no doubt as to the reality
of the phenomenon. Their president, Mr. Serjeant Cox, had recorded
in The Spiritualist how he heard, felt, and afterwards saw writing upon
the under side of a slate which he had cleaned, and laid in broad day¬
light over a crumb of pencil, placed on the top of Dr. Slade’s table.
Mr. Adshead, of Belper, Derbyshire, had recorded how he had obtained
writing in Dr. Monck’s presence on a locked folding slate, placed inside
a box, the lid of which was fixed on by means of a number of nails ham¬
mered in by various sitters. Then, again, Miss Kislingbury had ob¬
tained slate-writing in America, under unexceptionable test conditions.
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, M.R.I., stated that he once cleaned and
tied together two slates, with a crumb of pencil between them ; he did
not let them go out of his sight, yet in Dr. Slade’s presence obtained
upon them along quotation in Greek, a language which he believed that
Dr. Slade did not understand.
The Rev. Thomas Colley, late Curate of Portsmouth, said that
on the previous evening he and four other sitters had two slates
apiece, upon which they wrote questions beforehand, then tied
the slates together. None of the questions had been seen by
the medium, yet all were correctly answered in writing between
the slates. One pair of slates was at request taken through
a closed door and placed upon a particular step in the passage,
while Dr. Monck, the medium, remained in the room. Mr.JWedgwood,
who was present, asked that a slate and a card with names on it, should
be carried two miles and slipped into the letter box of his house ; this
was done, two of the sitters remained with Dr. Monck, while the other
three went in a cab to ascertain the result. The writing in Mr.
Adshead’s nailed box answered questions previously written out, and in
Mr. Adshead’s pocket at the time they were answered.
Dr. Carter Blake remarked that he had had many seances with that
most honourable man and excellent medium, Dr. Slade. (Loud ap¬
plause.) One gentleman had obtained writing in Dr. Slade’s presence
upon a slate fastened round with a strap, and padlocked by himself. He
(Dr. Blake) bought a book-slate, with heavy tinned-iron covers and
heavy hinges, and put a fragment of his own pencil between the. covers ;
that slate was never in Dr. Slade’s possession, and never out of the pos¬
session of himself (Dr. Blake), who held it in his own hand, without
Dr. Slade touching it, and in twelve or fifteen seconds a message was
written lengthways on the slate, Once a friend of his obtained writing
|| in Spanish and Portuguese, of which languages he believed Dr. Slade to
know nothing. Between Slade’s phenomena and conjuring tricks per¬
formed by ordinary men, there was a vast chasm, which he hoped the
| Psychological Society would never attempt to bridge over. (Applause.)
Mr. Munton.—Were you in the room when Spanish and Portuguese
writings were obtained ?
Dr. Carter Blake.—No. I was in the next room.
! Mr. Munton.—Can you speak those two languages?
Dr. Carter Blake.—Yes. I am one-quarter Spaniard.
! Dr. George Wyld said that once he held a slate in his hand, which he
I would not let Dr. Slade touch ; he put it on the table, under his own
arm, and upon it there came a message to his two brothers, signed with
the names of his father and mother. (Cheers.) He did not believe
! implicitly that the message came from his father and mother; he thought
| that it was written by Slade’s spirit, unknown to the living man. Lan-
! kester argued that there was no time to write a message before he found
| one on the slate. He (Dr. Wyld) returned to Slade to “ sit for time,”
| and after two or three trials obtained in three-quarters of a second the
words “Let this convince you,’’ words which it takes human beings
three seconds to write.
Mr. C. C. Massey never heard Slade’s name mentioned, without
rising to say that the writing was not produced by the trickery of the
R | medium. He thought the word Spiritualism objectionable as applied to
|) | this phenomenon, and that the word caused a vast amount of unneces-
i) I sary prejudice; he thought that the spirit of the medium had a large
I (! share in the production of the writing. At the same time he was a
| > Spiritualist, and believed that certain other phenomena gave evidence
!? of the presence of the spirits of the departed.
h Mr. Serjeant Cox said that there was no doubt as to the reality of the
i) fact of this abnormal production of writing. He first witnessed it with
K Forster; afterwards with Slade, in the manner already stated. A lady
| in private life, who would not let her powers be generally known,
j) j because of the outrageous abuse showered upon mediums—and he did
111 not blame her—had obtained quantities of writing while quietly eating
j( I her dinner, and holding a slate briefly under the table with one hand
|) j when requested. A conjuror might get writing under these conditions,
U | but not a lady in private life. He believed that the writing was pro-
I \ | duced by the spirit of the medium.
I) j The discussion was then adjourned
■ j | The hall, at this meeting, was full to overflowing; some of the
\{ | listeners had to be accommodated with seats outside the open door.
| | “THE SPIRITUALIST” FOR 1878.
|| Subscriptions for The Spiritualist for 1878 may now be sent in to
K | the branch office of this paper in London. The charge free by post
|) j to any part of the United Kingdom is 10s. lOd., and to all parts of
) | Europe, India, Australia, and the United States, 13s. It is posted
(i in London every Thursday evening, consequently should reach sub-
j scribers in nearly all parts of the United Kingdom on the Friday.
“THE BANNER OF LIGHT” FOR 1878.
| Subscriptions for The Banner of Light, Boston, United States, for
j the year 1878, can now be received at the branch office of The Spirit-
) ualist newspaper in London. It brings the earliest news of Spirit-
| ualism in America. The JReligio-Philosophical Journal, published
) | further inland, at Chicago, can also be supplied. Price of either
| journal, free by post to any part of the United Kingdom, fifteen
11 shillings a year.
We are obliged, from want of room, to postpone till next week the
publication of several letters and matters of interest.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., of Lamport Hall, Northampton, has just
| brought out an enlarged edition of his illustrated pamphlet on Vege¬
tarianism, cleverly drawn and lithographed by himself.
| To-night (Friday evening), at eight o’clock, those true friends of
Spiritualism, Mr. Dietz and Miss Ella Dietz, will give another public
entertainment, in the shape of recitations, at the Langham Hall, Port-
| land-street, Regent-street, London, and should be well supported,
j On Sunday next Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver two trance addresses in
the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-street, All Saints, Manchester.
Afternoon at three o’clock; subject, “Spiritual Democracy:” evening,
| at 6.30 ; subject, “ Scepticism, its Cause and Cure.” Monday, Deo.
17th, a special chamber lecture; particulars to be obtained at either of
the above meetings. On Tuesday and Wednesday, Dec. 18th and 19th,
Mr. Morse will deliver trance addresses at Belper, Derbyshire.
Mr. W. J. Colville will give his last evening trance address at the
Langham Hall next Monday, when it is to be hoped he will be well
supported, since he has been doing his utmost to establish regular in¬
spirational public addresses in London. Next Sunday, at 11.15 a.m.,
and 3.15 p.m., he will give trance addresses at 429, Oxford-street,
| London; admission free. Last Sunday his guides lectured against the
views of the Theosophists, as laid down by Colonel Olcott.
The Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.—At the
| fortnightly discussion meeting of this Association, to be held at 53,
Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane, London, E., on Monday evening next, 17th
inst., at a quarter past eight o’clock, Herr Christian Reimers will open
| the adjourned discussion on “Casts of Hands and Feet, with General
| Experiences of Materialisation Phenomena.” At the same meeting a
| paper will be read by Dr. C. Carter Blake, entitled “Passage of Matter
| through Matter.” Members and others interested in the study of
j Spiritualism are invited to attend. The attention of members is called
to the fact that the Council invite reports of any personal experiences,
or contributions of original papers, with the view that the same may be
i brought before the Association.—T. Bliton, Hon. Sec,
Beo. 14, 1877.
THE SPIHITTJALIST.
283
! I I
MAN AS A SPIRIT; AND SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA AS j
PRODUCED BY THE SPIRITS OF THE LIVING-. |
BY GEORGE WYLD, M.D. ]j
We are often told that in Spiritualism our great first pi
duty is to accumulate facts. So, indeed it is; but in this |
paper I shall, being thoroughly satisfied of the reality of the |
facts, take them for granted, and attempt to maintain a |
theory as to their nature. j
Briefly stated, my theory is this : Man is a spirit; there- I
fore, if the phenomena we call Spiritual are produced by j
spirits, there is no reason why the operating spirits should j j
not be those of the living beings present. I wish it to be h
distinctly kept in mind that I do not say that all the phe-
nomena we are acquainted with are so produced; I simply |j
say and believe that all the phenomena we have yet obtained h
might be produced by the spirits of the living. j!
Secondly : I say that inasmuch as we, as spirits, know we ij
are present, but have no absolute proof that the spirits of j
the departed are present, the presumption is that our spirits, j
known to be present, are the operators.
Thirdly: The presence of a medium is almost always j!
necessary to the production of the phenomena; therefore j
the presumption is that the spirit of the medium is the chief j -
operator.
One day, in the year 1853,1 met my old artistic and mes¬
meric friend, Mr. Collin, who, knowing me to be interested j
in psychological phenomena, asked me if I had seen Mr.
Home, the wonderful American medium, who had just
arrived in London. I replied that I had not, when he said,
“ Then lose no time in making his acquaintance, for you will
find that Spiritualism is a fact, and that it beats mesmerism
into fits.” He then narrated to me what he had seen and j
felt, namely, the production of spirit hands, which to the
evidence of the senses were identical with human hands.
I replied, that I had believed in mesmerism since the year
1839, and was therefore mentally prepared to receive almost
any mystery ; but he must excuse me if I declined to believe
in his narrative until I had witnessed the facts with my own
eyes.
Mr. Collin admitted that I was quite right, but, at the j
same time, assured me that I had only to witness the phe- j
nomena to be at once convinced of the solid reality of the
facts.
A few days later I had the good fortune to secure a sitting |
with Mr. Home, when sure enough a hand became visible, j
and grasped my hand with a reality as palpable as this I j
wear, “compelling an instantaneous belief,” Mr. Home !.
being about ten feet distant .from me, and every hand at j
the table being joined together. j
Mr. Home afterwards passed into a trance, and said to j
me: • I see Isabella,” a cousin of mine, who had shortly I
before passed into spirit life. That he saw Isabella mentally !
I felt convinced, because he gave me the most positive |
evidence, by mimicking the gestures and actions which in one j
minute detail I have never seen repeated in any other woman, j
Being well acquainted with the phenomena of mind-reading j
and clairvoyance, I at once, in my own mind, secretly con- |!
eluded that Home was a clairvoyant; but no sooner had this j!
idea entered my mind, than Mr. Home replied to my thought
by saying, “ You think this mind-reading, but it is not; I
see Isabella ; ” and I felt that I could not have obtained a
better proof that the vision was one of mind-reading.
I did not at that time see how my theory applied to the
production of palpable hands, but this revelation so |
astonished me, that, when I awoke the following morning, j
I had some difficulty in believing that the whole had not |
been a dream.
Home, as we know, on certain occasions became elongated J
several inches, but it is much easier to believe that his own
spirit, the master of his own body, exercised his disin¬
tegrating spiritual organic chemistry, than that a foreign
spirit performed the operation.
Home also floated in the air, but we do not find any neces¬
sity to call in the aid of foreign spirits to accomplish this |
feat. Home also might have been repelled from the earth,
just as two bodies positively electrified repel each other; or j
his irradiating or levitating spirit may have rendered his
body specifically lighter than the atmosphere; and this view !
j I would rather suggest, as the motion of Home floating
I through the upper part of the room, and in and out of
window, had a close resemblance to the gliding, floating
actions of the fish in water, moving here and there as by
volition.
I did not at that time continue my investigations, because
events occurred which showed to me that the subject was
one the investigation of which might involve terrible con¬
sequences.
Some years later Miss Hardinge came to London, and
delivered those powerful orations which purported to be the
dictations of wise spirits from the spirit-land.
Here again I received the impression that these orations
were not the dictation of departed spirits, but the improvi¬
sations of her own partially entranced, and therefore clair¬
voyant spirit.
I had on former occasions seen very plain, common, and
| uninteresting women, when entranced, become at once, as it
| were, transfigured in both mind and body, and speak and
act in a manner far beyond their natural powers ; and why
should not Emma Hardinge, with her educated and powerful
mind, in her partially entranced condition, deliver orations
transcending her natural abilities ?
Mr. Hove and I urged this view on Miss Hardinge, and
she admitted that she believed it might often be so, at least
to some extent.
These views I expressed at the meeting held in the Harley-
street Rooms, to discuss the questioli of Spiritualism, and
II Mr. Coleman has printed them in his interesting little book,
j! The History of Spiritualism in England. It was objected
i i to my views that communications were received on subjects
I either forgotten, and therefore not in our minds, or on
[| subjects beyond our knowledge. To this my answer was,
II that to the entranced and clairvoyant spirit, all minds and
11 books were open for inspection and instruction; and that,
j although subjects had faded from our memories, there yet
| remained their impress on the tablets of our minds.
Afterwards the Davenport brothers arrived and astonished
| us, and asserted that their bandages were untied by spirits,
I and that spirit hands assisted them. No doubt the Daven-
I ports were released from the most perfect tying, and no
| doubt spirit hands and arms were multiplied; bnt I said, if
departed spirits can do this work, why not spirits present in
our own bodies ?
Regarding this theory I received what seemed to me a
strong confirmation, when, on asking Mr. Everett if he
could give me any idea how he was liberated from the most
perfectly secure handcuffs, as applied by the most expe-
| rienced police-sergeants, he replied that he did not know
i how it was, but that at the moment the act took place he
j felt himself entranced. This confirmed me in my belief
that the hand-cuffs were removed by the chemical superiority
! of his own spirit over solid matter.
Lastly arrived Dr. Slade, and, with regard to slate-
| writing, I would observe that there is no order of spiritual
phenomena which impresses me more powerfully. Slade
| and his slate-writing were to me objects of absorbing
j interest. All was done in the light, and above-board,
| and the evidence that the writing was produced by a
| spiritual intelligence, without the intervention of human
j hands, was overwhelming. When, therefore, brutal and
s intolerant ignorance seized Slade, and dragged him into a
! police-court, I felt prepared to run any risk, and incur any
[ responsibility in his defence.
Slade believed that the writing was chiefly produced by the
[ spirit of his deceased wife; but I believed that it was pro-
[ duced by his own partially entranced spirit; and this view
I has recently received a strong confirmation by the admission
| of Mr. Watkins, the most surprising of the slate writers,
I that he is convinced that his own spirit frequently produces
i the writing, as he feels a something go out of him as the
|t writing is being done, and a something returning into him
[J as the writing is finished.
But it is objected, how can an ignorant medium write
jj Greek. My reply is, that the spirit of the medium may
II instinctively know Greek, or receive a vision of it, or find it
11 in the brain of those present, or in books.
! Swedenborg tells us that spirits can summon to their
presence any simulacrum desired. If so, why should Slade’s
284
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 14, 1877.
spirit not desire and see Greek texts written out on the
mind’s eye ?
Let us apply these views to form manifestations. Mrs. ,
a common, uninteresting woman, goes into a cabinet, and
has her black dress nailed to the floor of the room. Shortly
afterwards out walks the form of a fine young lady dressed
in whiter and, by permission, a bit of the white dress is cut
off. The cabinet is now searched, but Mrs. has dis¬
appeared. The young lady form in white returns to the
cabinet, when shortly afterwards out walks a big man with
a beard, which, on examination, is found to be not glued to
but growing out of the skin of his face. The cabinet is again
searched; Mrs. is not there. This bearded man returns
to the cabinet, which is again searched, and there sits
Mrs. in her black dress nailed to the floor, with a bit
cut out, which is found exactly to correspond to the bit cut
out of the white dress of the young lady form.
Here we have an astounding narrative, subjecting the
believer to the risk of being shut up as a lunatic; but what
necessity does there exist for calling in the assistance of
foreign spirits ? Mrs. 0. is a spirit, and her body belongs to
that spirit; which can by a spiritual chemistry disintegrate
it and reform the materials in any shape which it may
then desire.
Let us now consider the most recent and the most astound¬
ing of all the spiritual phenomena which have occurred in
this country.
Dr. Monck is entranced, and in lamp-light, and under the
close inspection of Mr. Colly, Mr. Stainton-Moses, and others,
a mist seems to emanate from his body, near the region of
his heart; this mist becomes columnar ; it gyrates on its axis,
when gradually there is evolved the solid frame, make, and
character of the deceased Samuel Wheeler. So exactly does
this being resemble Samuel Wheeler, in both soul and body,
that his oldest friends assert that the figure is absolutely
Samuel Wheeler returned to the flesh.
I have not been permitted to witness this astounding j
apparition, and I admit that those who have been so
privileged are better entitled than myself to make assertions
regardingit. But Mr. Stainton-Moses has recorded his im- j
pression that the apparition seemed to him to be an auto¬
maton, and this is the view I, in the absence of experience,
now hold.
The fact that the figure revealed a secret known only to 1
one individual is, to my mind, no proof of identity, for in I
the spirit-life the secrets of all hearts are open for inspection.
Nor does the absolute conviction of others, as to the identity,
convince me. The fact that the figure is sometimes materialised j
only to the waist, gives one the idea of an automaton; and |
as to the conviction of friends, we know that spirits can j
almost “ deceive even the elect,” and have we not, to the i
minds of accomplished ladies and gentlemen, Arthur Orton |
presenting himself as Roger Tichborne ; but more incredible j
still, unknown quantities, X.Y.Z., returning from the colonies j
and claiming to be lost husbands long reputed as dead, are j
as such joyfully received by sad and solitary widows. To this !
it may indeed be said that the wish was father to the thought.
Such illustrations are, however, not necessary to my theory,
for if spirit has, as Swedenborg says, the power to create a j
physical simulacrum, why should it not have the power to j J
create a simulacrum of that individual’s soul.
When I read that on one occasion Dr. Monck awoke out of |!
his trance, and seeing Samuel Wheeler, the two rushed into |
each other’s arms, I was at first puzzled how to reconcile j
this fact with my theory that the medium must be entranced |
when the spirit-form is materialised. But on reflection I j
find that the facts of the double explain this difficulty. A j
young lady friend of mine on one occasion, as she was pro- j
ceeding homewards on a cold day, strongly desired to be at j
home, and in the kitchen warming herself; at that moment |
two servants in the kitchen saw the handle of the door turn, j;
the door open, and the young lady walk in and warm herself j
at the kitchen fire. They regarded her as identical with )'
their young mistress, even to the minute detail of a pair of j
new green kid gloves ; but suddenly she disappeared, and in |
about a quarter of an hour, the young mistress actually i
appeared in the body. Here we have, the double although I
the original is awake, and unentranced, beyond the stage it |
might have been of mere absence of mind. But further we i
!j know that there are individuals who can project the double
at will in the waking state, and converse as with another
distinct individual. If so Dr. Monck may be one of these per¬
sons, and may have the power of projecting his spirit in the
form of himself or of any friend he or his spirit may desire.
I am confirmed in this idea by the figure having on one occa¬
sion addressed Mr. Wedgwood thus, “ Mr. Wedgwood, I
I am Moncks Samuel Wheeler.” To my mind these words do
not suggest an independent identity, but rather a subor¬
dinate creation. But again I say I offer this theory with
I deference before the superior experience of Mr. Colly and
other witnesses.
But the Spiritualist replies, it may be with anger, (l Why
should you deprive us of the greatest comfort of our lives,
the belief that we are in daily communion with the spirits
| of those we loved on earth?” and very far indeed is it from
my desire to do so, but I would say that in memory I can
love the departed as much as if they were present. Again,
it is said the outcome of the science of the nineteenth
century is atheism ; but grant the return of one single spirit
from the eternal shores, and immortality is at once esta-
| blished. I grant this, and say that the spirits of the de-
| parted have a thousand times reappeared as ghosts, before
| taking their final leave of this world. Ghost stories are
established beyond all question, and the impression produced
,| on the mind by these spontaneous ghosts is far more solemn
| and profound than that which is produced by those spiritually
manufactured or produced by mediums.
Further, the double demonstrates the existence of the
spirit outside the body, and so far independent of the body.
| No one, I conceive, could behold a ghost or a double, and
! not feel that man is a spirit, and an immortal being.
Moreover, the entranced man can see without eyes objects
five thousand miles distant. He can hear without ears at
distances beyond all natural acoustics. He can taste with-
) out contact with the food. He can see the past, the pre-
| sent, and the future. To him the secrets of the heart are
| open. He can heal the diseases of others, and for his own
i body you may cut it limb from limb, and his spirit v^ill re¬
gard the mutilation with entire indifference. You may burn
his body with fire, and he will only rejoice in his victory over
matter. Is not this a physical demonstration that spirit is
I independent of matter ?—a unity) therefore, indivisible, and
! therefore incapable of decay, and therefore immortal ? But
I hold that the univeral belief in a future state is a demon-
j stration of the fact. All error produces sin and misery, and
j all truth produces, sooner or later, health and happiness.
I The belief in a future state is productive of health, strength,
| and happiness, and therefore I hold that this demonstrates
| the harmony of this belief with man’s nature, and thus de-
| monstrates the reality of a future life. Miracles I define as
! the action of spirit over matter, and thus miracles I hold
I demonstrate the immortality of the soul. The spiritual man
| by faith can shut the mouths of lions, and quench the
| violence of fire; cast out demons, and raise the dead to life.
Of matter itself spiritual phenomena go to prove that_p^r sg,
it has no existence, matter being only form assumed by
spirit. Granting, for convenience, ultimate atoms, spirit
takes these and builds them into any form it may desire or
imagine. Just as a certain acid seizing on a certain alkali
may produce a white triangular crystal, so a stronger acid
will displace the weaker, and produce with the same alkali
I a red hexagonal crystal, and so on ad infinitum.
Read in this light spiritual chemistry, or form material-
isings, are profoundly interesting, and go to prove that the
spirit of man has, like the Spirit of God, dominion not only
| over the fowls of the air and the beasts of the field as Adam
| had, but over the elements of matter. The idealist exercising
his hands can with clay or marble mould or chisel the
| divinest forms. The spiritual man can create or materialise
those forms by the mere force of his spiritual nature. The
I whole universe is only the materialised thoughts of the
Divine Mind.
I have spoken much of entrancement, and I may say that my
Spiritual theory is mainly founded on that most profoundly
[interesting fact that man, when he becomes entranced, is
not only above and beyond matter, but he becomes the
| controller of matter. He reveals the hidden angel, and
I demonstrates that “ the kingdom of heaven is within him,”
285
Dec). 14,1877. THE SPIRITUALIST.
I beg to draw your attention to tliis diagram. It is a sim¬
plification of one my late most laborious and enthusiastic
friend, Mr. Dove, employed to illustrate his psychological
and alchemical views.
*
B
[A
A to C represents the earthly or soul life. C to G the
spirit life, x x represents the middle wall of partition, or
river of oblivion, which divides the earth-plane from the
spirit-plane.
A represents the ordinary life of self-consciousness and
reason and vigilance. B represents the plane of reverie
or day-dreaming. C represents the position, the point
intermediate between the earth or spirit-plane. D re¬
presents the plane of spirit reverie and spirit-dreaming.
This I conceive to be the region of elementary and evil and
foolish spirits—the spirits which chiefly infest our dark
seances: and this may be the position occupied by our spirits
when infested in sleep by foul and evil dreams and vampires.
E represents the position of spiritual lucidity or clairvoy¬
ance, or inspirational speaking in company at times with
higher departed spirits. F represents a more intense lucidity
and clairvoyance; and here, the spirit, escaping from the
influence of the lower plane, is controlled by the “ Holy
Spirit of the Lord ” at G, and hence the form of oracle is,
“Thus saith-the Lord.” To this position I conceive St. Paul
ascended when he was caught up into the seventh heaven,
and saw things “ impossible to utter.” G represents the
position to which Christ from time to time ascended, and
thus being, as it were, absorbed in God, could say, “ I
and the Father are one,” and became entitled to the name
of “the only-begotten and well-beloved Son of God.”
I have been often asked, if those phenomena are produced
by our spirits, how is it that we are ignorant of the fact?
I reply, Man is only half known to himself. The man awake
has no knowledge of the man asleep, nor the man asleep of
the man awake. The somnambule has no knowledge of the
normal man, nor the normal man of the somnambule. The
chrysalis has no knowledge of the butterfly, nor the butterfly
any remembrance of the chrysalis. We know that the ordi¬
nary man is ignorant of the entranced man, and the en¬
tranced man on returning to soul-life, has at once lost all
knowledge and memory of the entranced man, who one
minute before astonished us by his scientific knowledge. My
diagram may help you to see how this is so. It shows the
earth-plane and the spirit-plane as two states, separated by
the wall or river of oblivion.
I desire, however, here to add that Christ, as I conceive,
dwelt daily both on earth and in heaven, and was for ever
conscious of both lives, and thus He obtained power and ap¬
plied titles to himself presumptuous to mere man.
Of course this is only a diagram, but some thirty years
ago I had a curious corroboration of the idea of a door
leading to the other life. At the time when Sir James
Simpson introduced the use of chloroform as an anmsthetic,
medical students amused themselves by experimenting with
it on their own bodies. One day a friend of mine of Oriental
blood, took chloroform, and described his sensations.
He said he felt himself whirling round and round in ever-
diminishing circles, when at last he perceived a small round
hole through which he darted and became oblivious.
I believe the action of anesthetics is to entrance the man.
On one occasion, after taking chloroform for the relief of an
intense pain, I distinctly found myself outside my body.
It is a fact well known to physicians that certain feeble
!j and diseased persons will tell you that they get no good sleep,
| but only horrid and disgusting dreams, and that when they
awake in the morning they are weaker and more tired than
j when they went to bed. This I would explain by suggesting that
| in sleep they merely reach the portal, as it were, and there
| become infested or possessed by the low spirits prowling
| about; and hence the myth of the vampyre. Some mediums
| would appear to be' in an analogous position ; their bodies
! are unstrung, and their mental powers become somewhat
m soluble; and although, in a scientific point of view, it is
| j interesting to know that the clothes of Dr. Monck rot
| | quickly, yet this contrasts curiously with what we are told
j j of the children of Israel, who, after wandering forty years
|| in the desert, “yet was their raiment not worn, nor the
)| shoes waxed old on their feet.”*
Physical mediums are generally more or less feeble, but
HI of angels we read that “they excel in strength.”
j i But the wholesome and good man or woman who falls
HI asleep after a good day’s work, passes rapidly through the
11 doorway and ascends beyond the reach of these evil spirits
j j and vampires. If so, it must be a matter of profound im-
| | portance to our bodily and spiritual health that we, especially
| | when we are composing ourselves to sleep, allow no evil food
j j to vex the body, or evil thoughts to perplex the mind.
K “ Let not the sun go down upon thy wrath,”f but in prayer
j | commend the keeping of your spirit to your Father, who is
j j in heaven. In this light, those who have watched the love-
< liness.of the innocent little child asleep will be able to feel
j the pathetic power of Christ’s words, when he says of these
j | little ones, “Verily I say unto you, that the angels do
jji always behold the face of my Father, which is in heaven.]:
Hence the profound sleep rising into the true spiritual life
| | may become prophetic, and “Your old men shall dream
| | dreams, and your young men shall see visions.”§
Furthermore, that soul which nightly passes into this pro-
| found sleep and thus sups with the angels, is nourished by
| | that spiritual food which is the direct antagonist of the
| | decay of this earthly life. The man so nourished may live
| j to a green old age, sleep being, as Shakespeare says, “ Sore
jl labour’s bath ; balm of hurt minds; chief nourisher in life’s
j j feast.” And here the question presents itself, might it not
be true that in the primitive age the Adamite man lived
j daily on earth, and nightly in Paradise, and thus “ making
j the best of both worlds,” prolonged his life to 1,000 years.
I The myth of Castor and Pollux each dying daily for the other
. may be an illustration of this double life.
Some lower races of men may be illustrations of Mr.
|) | Darwin’s theory of development from the ape, and, if so,
! j such races may be destined to become extinct. Not so the
| i Adamite man, formed of the clay of the ground, in whom
111 the breath of God created a living soul. ||
Does this myth not suggest that possibly the Adamite
j)j man was a materialised angel, and who gradually fell more
j and more under the dominion of matter and his own lusts
| | and putrescences ?
It may be so; but, if so, man being, nevertheless, a
| | spiritual child of God, has that within him which, if sought,
| j will be found ; and will be sought and must be found, and
j j again resurrect the inhabitants of this earth to their former
| angelical condition.
Spiritual phenomena, although to me they are chiefly
J;l interesting in a psychological and scientific point of view,
| | must yet, in a religious point of view, be regarded with the
I | profoundest respect; not because there is anything in our
|) | ordinary stances which leads to this, but because, if we con-
I | template the subject in its relation to matter, we at once
j I arrive at the conviction that materialism is a vulgar supersti-
|) I tion, as our Mr. Harrison has put it; and yet this materialism
I j is the outcome of the science of the nineteenth century.
| | But science means knowledge, and the highest science is the
I | knowledge of what man is, and of this divine science the
j j materialist is as ignorant as a savage.
True Spiritualism is the highest of all the sciences, because
j it reveals to us a knowledge of the world which now is, and
I | that which is to come, demonstrating that the spirit of
| | man is supreme over matter, and therefore immortal.
We are told in the Bible that those who live the life shall
! j    
* Dent, xxix, 5, t Eph. iv. 26. $ Matt xviii. 10. § Joel ii. 28.
|| Gen. ii, 7.
286
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 14, 1877.
know the doctrine,* and the most ancient religions, philo¬
sophies and experts tell us the same thing. Man they say
is a spiritual being, and should have, if in his right place,
the control over matter, and they teach that to obtain this
control over nature we must, in the first place, obtain a per¬
fect control over ourselves. We must live a severely pure
life, and by contemplation, fasting and prayer, develope our
spiritual powers. That many in olden times possessed these
powers is clearly proved; and that especially in the East
there are still many possessed of these powers, is known be¬
yond all question by those who have devoted themselves to
the examination of this subject. If any doubt this they
must read that masterly book, just published by Madame
Blavatsky, Isis Unveiled. The paper I am now reading was
composed before I had read a single page of that powerful
book. I have as yet only had time to read the first volume,
but I have been continually startled by the corroboration it
affords of the views I have held on these subjects ever since
my late friend, Mr. Dove, opened my mind to the conception
of the nature of entrancement, and my brother’s book, The
World Dynamical and Immaterial^ convinced me that matter
is subservient to power or spirit.
In olden times, in the Middle Ages, and in our day, there
have existed side by side the white and the black magic, just j
as in the Bible we have angels of light and of darkness, j
Both possessed spiritual power over matter, but whereas
those who practised white magic did so as a philosophy and
religion, and as a means to good ends, those on the other
hand, who practised black magic did so merely to obtain ji
power over human beings for the gratification of their own ! j
diabolical selfishness. ' ‘ h
Even with the best and greatest, the possession of these j!
spiritual powers must subject the possessor to most danger- jj
ous temptations, so much so that even of Christ we read ji
that being led by the spirit into the wilderness, and after | j
fasting forty days and forty nights, and no doubt then with |
intense prayer to God his Father, obtaining divine and j
miraculous gifts, he was yet tempted of the devil, to convert j
stones into bread, to cast himself from the pinnacle of the |
temple, and to aspire to the kingdoms of this earth. This |
may be regarded as showing the crucial turning point of j
Christ’s life. But he made no hesitation, replying to the i
tempter, “ Get thee behind me Satan, for it is written, thou I
shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou I
serve.” f I
A belief in the capabilities of man’s spirit over matter is j
profoundly interesting, but how few could thus become j
spiritualised, and exercise these gifts without danger; for i
even the angels kept not their first estate, but, as Milton says, j
by ” ambition, that last infirmity of noble minds,” fell. j
In The Spiritualist, of the 7 th of December, there is a |
most interesting exposition of the views of the Theosophists, j
by Colonel Olcott, but I regret to find him saying, “ We j
Theosophists of the inner ring adhere to the Oriental religious j
philosophies, as better guides to happiness than the Christian !
theology.” I
I suppose Colonel Olcott must mean the priestly inter- ||
pretations of Christ’s doctrines, not the teaching of Christ jj
Himself, because I cannot conceive of a higher religion and j
morality than that of Christ; for in him there is placed be- Hj
fore us a life and an example, by following which we shall j j j
reach the truest life which now is, and that which is to come, j j
As with the Theosophists so Christ teaches the severest jj
self-discipline as necessary to man’s own salvation,$ but he jj
as emphatically teaches that to love, and work, and even jjj
die for others, if need be, is our highest privilege. §
Selfishness is not only shown to be the essence of all sin, jjj
but directly or indirectly the cause of almost all disease, ijj
both acute and chronic, and love and unselfishness are shown j j j
to be the great cure for sin and most diseases. j j
The entire unselfishness of Christ was the cause of His jjj
entire sinlessness, and the power by which He cured the jj j
bodies and souls of men, was the power of unselfish love. j
Thus u Christ crucified ”|| becomes the sublimest philo- jjj
sophy. It signifies “ the crucifixion of our affections and jj j
lusts which war against the soul.”11 It signifies the daily jj j
death of the body, necessary to the daily resurrection of the j j
* John vii. 17. t Matt. vi. 10. j ( j
J Matt. x. 38, 39 ; chap, xyi, 24. Mark viii. 34. Luke ix. 23 ; chap. xiv. 27, ! (j
§ John xv. 13. || l Oor. i. 23. If 1 Peter ii. 11.
spirit,* and “ all who have this faith will purify themselves
as Christ was pure ;”t and thus it is that “ Love to God and
love to man” are the sum and substance of all the law and
the prophets, the essence of all religion and of all morality, f
All who beheld Stephen as he, the first Christian martyr,
testified to the truth, *( saw his face as it had been the face of
an angel,”§ and Jesus Christ “ talking with him (as those
witnesses) Peter and James and John went up into a moun¬
tain, and as he prayed the fashion of his face was changed,
and shone as the sun, and his raiment became as light.”||
And yet this Being, although possessed of all power, for
our example submitted to death, and thus by the total ab¬
negation of self, by the renunciation of the devil, by <( the
crucifixion of those affections and lusts which war against
the soul,” became as u Christ crucified, dead in the flesh but
alive in the spirit.”^ And He who spent His life in care
and sorrow, and with the perfect foreknowledge of a fear¬
fully cruel death, yet went about continually doing good,
healing all manner of diseases, forgiving His enemies, cast¬
ing out devils, opening the eyes of the physically and
spiritually blind, raising the bodily and spiritually dead—
first was transfigured, and ultimately, as (< Enoch who
walked with God,” was carried up into the presence of “ His
Father and our Father, his God and our God.”**
Having at one and the same time been a dweller on this
earth, and an inhabitant of heaven, He thus ce the well-
beloved Son of God,” and the perfect, divine, and miraculous
Son of Man, becomes the Saviour of the world, not by
His righteousness being imputed to us as some say, but by
our adopting His righteousness, “ the way, the truth, and
the life” for ever and for evermore. Thusff it is I conceive
that the pure in heart shall see God, and thus it is that God
in the centre and in the circumference is the key to man,
and Christ to earth and heaven and to universal law.
Mr; J. H. Gledstanes is now in London, and will remain for some
months.
Mr. W. Gk Haxby, physical medium, has just resigned a permanent
appointment in the Post Office, to devote himself wholly to mediumship.
Next Wednesday evening, at eight o’clock, Dr. Maurice Davies will
lecture at 429, Oxford-street, London, on ** Spiritualism: the Guide
in Christian Morals.”
In Fraser's Magazine, this month, is an able article by Mr. A. R.
Wallace, exposing some more of Dr. Carpenter s misrepresentations, and
his incapacity to weigh evidence.
A Novel Mode of Testing Spirits.—Mr. J. M. Peebles, in the
course of a letter written from Ceylon, to The Harbinger of Light, Mel¬
bourne, says :—“ Spiritualists must test controlling spirits more
thoroughly in the future than they have in the past. And spirits
who object to being reasonably tested reveal at once their moral un¬
soundness and spiritual unfitness to be the controlling guides of earthly
sensitives. Inasmuch as the heavens and hells are both open to earth;
and inasmuch as these immortal intelligencies stand behind the screen ;
or, apostolically speaking, behind * a glass,’ that even the most lucid
clairvoyants see through but ‘ darkly,’ would any good spirit, after the
seance had been opened with reading, singing, and invocation or pray er
demur at some such test as this :—(In the presence of God, who is here
and everywhere; in the presence of the Christ-spirit of love and truth;
in the presence of angels and ever-attendiug spirits; in the presence of
these mortal friends now assembled ; and in the presence of, and before
the judgment seat of my own soul—I solemnly affirm that I am the spirit
of the person, who, when living in an earthly body, was known by the
name of , residing in .’ ”
Mediumship.—Mediums, being entirely misunderstood in the past,
both by themselves and by others, have either been elevated to the rank
of God’s especial ministers, as were many of the prophets and seers of old,
or they have been accused of being in league with the powers of dark¬
ness, and the willing instruments of Satan, for the enslavement of man¬
kind. It is part of the mission of Spiritualism to assort and place them
in their true positions—to prove that they are God’s instruments, only
as all men are; all differing in degree, as channels for the communica¬
tion of His will. That they are no better, nor worse than ourselves ;
and that they are so organised, that the inhabitants of the spirit-world
which is all around us, can through them communicate with us ; and
thus they fill posts of usefulness that no others can; and we are in¬
debted to them in proportion to the honesty of purpose, devotion, and
success with which they perform their duties. As a class, no people in
the world have suffered as have mediums. A few have been honoured,
though always misunderstood; but the majority of them have been pro¬
scribed, or imprisoned, or abhorred as Satanic, or have met violent
deaths at the hands of priestly bigotry, or of an ignorant populace;
while angels looked on in sorrow and pity for the victims, and in disap¬
pointment that these, the only channels which they could use to en¬
lighten mankind, should be closed through ignorance and prejudice.—
Crowell.
* 1 Cor. XT. 31. f 1 John iii. 3. t Matt. xxii. 37 : Mark xii. 31; Luke x. 27.
§ Acts yi, 15. || Matt, xyii. 2, IT 1 Peter iii, 18, ** John xx, 17. ft John xiv. 6,
Dec. 14, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
287
FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
We have received the following circulars. With regard to the signa¬
tures, one is that of Mr. Cranstoun, of the Tyrol; another that of
Mr. Colley, late curate of Portsmouth; another that of Mr. Adshead, of
Belper, Derbyshire; and a fourth that of Mr. Wedgwood, one of the
Middlesex magistrates:—
THE EVOLUTION OF A MATERIALISED FORM FROM A MATERIALISED FORM.
We, the undersigned, attest to the following facts. On Friday evening,
December 7th, we sat with Dr. Monck for materialisation. First we
thoroughly seached the smaller room leading from the seance room in which
the sitting was held, and sealed up window and door, affixing private marks to
enable us to verify the fact that no admission thereunto from without could
take place; and it may at once be stated that at the conclusion of the night’s
most wonderful events for us to report, the seals were intact as we had
left them.
We sat round a small table placed within a yard of the black curtain that
separated the smaller from the larger room, and Dr. Monck standing before
the curtain about two feet from the table, soon passed under control of
Samuel. The light from two gas jets, was, at this time, about the power of
one candle. Under these conditions we all very clearly saw a tall, white-
robed figure grow out of Dr. Monck’s left side ; and Mr. Colley, desiring more
light, was permitted to increase it, so that we all plainly saw the figure, in
process of development, issue from the medium’s body, bound to him, as has
before been described, by a spiral attachment that appeared to be part of the
figure’s robe and right hand, and thus stood as separate individuals before us,
both medium and figure.
But presently from this form, a female figure rapidly grew into being (just
as the first form grew from Dr. Monck), and stood at the left side of the first
form, even as the male figure stood at the left side of the medium. So the
three, which before were one in the person of Dr. Monck, stood before us
thus:—1st. Medium ; 2nd. man spirit-form ; 3rd. woman spirit-form ; the
latter being still fibered to the second in the same way that the second has
been fibered to the first.
The female form was as much shorter than Dr. Monck as the man form was
taller. Her face was beautiful, and her white garments, like those of her
companion, seemed to be of exquisite texture. She smiled, bowed, kissed her
hand to us, and affectionately addressed one of our company in a voice low and
exceedingly sweet, while accents, tone, and articulation were recognised by
Mr. and Mrs. Colley, as belonging to one so-called dead, with whom they have
been familiar, through various media, for some years. A fabric of the most
delicate structure covered the face of this materialised spirit, which added
grace to its appearance, and in no way impaired our view of her lovely features.
Long streaming masses of dark hair fell over her shoulders behind, and one
curl hung over neck in front. Then, after she had passed backwards and
forwards, now behind, and now again at the side of our first visitor, thus
retiring and advancing, the two mysterious living beings stood forward for the
closest inspection, not a yard from us; while Dr. Monck left them, and turned
up the gas to the full, so that nothing whatever was wanting that might
better enable us at any time to recognise the faces of these strange visitors
anywhere.
Then, after a time, the female figure seemed to be absorbed by the male
figure (just as he in turn was at last absorbed by the medium), and a great
access of power on his part seemed to be the result.
For now, with the gas turned on full, this form came with Dr. Monck round
the circle, and at request, lifted three of our company, one after another, com¬
pletely out of their chairs. He also took up a chair and twirled it round, and
flourished it about to show the perfect anatomy of hand, wrist, elbow joint, and
other powers of the arm. Then placing the chair in front of us, the embodied
spirit sat down, and permitted us to handle and leisurely inspect its, hands,
arms, and feet, and scrutinise very closely its features, moving its eyes and
eyelids at our request, affording us in many ways every facility for most
thoroughly making its acquaintance in every way desired. Dr. Monck, still
under control of Samuel, standing apart, and aiding us in every way possible
to get the fullest and complete knowledge of our mysterious visitant.
Further, this strange addition to our number wore a sort of head-dress bound
round with a chaplet of golden leaves and other ornaments : its arms were
bare and very lean, but perfectly natural both as to appearance and touch.
Yery audibly, also, under instruction of Samuel, while the medium’s closed
lips were pressed on the back of Mrs. Colley’s hand, did the figure speak, and
addressed us, saying, “ All hail.”
And now, an experiment, very unique in its outcome, was suggested, namely,
that the form should drink a glass of water, and though Samuel, on behalf of
Dr. Monck, objected to the experiment as not a nice one, in its expected conclu¬
sion, yet Mr. Colley, for good reasons, persisted; and the result was that, as
the figure drank the water visibly and audibly before us, the water so con¬
sumed was, in quantity corresponding to what the materialised spirit
swallowed, instantly ejected from the medium’s mouth, demonstrating by
another proof, added to former proofs, that there is, at times, if not always,
great community of taste and feeling between the psychic forms and the
mediums from whom they take birth.
Thus, after many experiments, and a stay with us of nearly an hour, the
medium all the time, and throughout the whole seance, never once out of our
sight, the embodied mystery began to lose power, till at last Dr. Monck, draw¬
ing near, received the form back into himself, the figure sliding, as it appeared,
gradually into his left side, leaving only a patch of white, misty, luminous
vapour on his black coat. This, too, disappeared, but the lappet of his coat,
by chance being moved aside, we all saw beneath, on the waistcoat, about the
place of the watch-pocket, the same flickering patch of misty light, which
Mr. Adshead tried to arrest, placing one hand at the back, while with the other
he explored the inner vest, feeling all round in vain for its cause, which ignis
fatuus presently died out, or was drawn within; and with a spasm Dr. Monck
awoke and sat down with us, apparently unconscious of the mighty wonders
we had witnessed, and feel powerless to describe.—William S. Adshead ;
Agnes S. Cranstoun ; Alexander J. Cranstoun ; Lillie Collet ; Thomas
Collet.
a spirit-postal operation.
We, the undersigned, attest to the following facts:—
On Wednesday night, Dec. 5, in full gaslight, we sat with Dr. Monck, and
each in turn tied two new slates together, with a crumb of pencil placed
between, having previously, in secret, written a question or message on the
inner surface of one of them, the joined slates being placed by us, in turn, at
our feet under the table. This was, by each of us, done twice ; so that ten
slates were written on, the invisible scribe correctly answering, on each slate,
its particular question,
| Further, at request, one pair of slates was taken from the room, through
| closed doors, and placed in a particular way asked for on the fifth step of the
| staircase outside going down. Dr. Monck being left in the room with one of
I us, while we went out to see if this had been done, the slates were found placed
I on the step desired, and in the way directed.
! Another pair of slates was also in the same unaccountable manner taken
from the closed room, and on the door being opened a little, one of our com-
! pany was instructed to advance, and take them from a hand that held them,
i The hand in question, very natural in appearance, was seen by all, on one of
i fingers of which a ring also was observed.
| Then one of our number took a small unframed pasteboard slate, and wrote
I thereon a request that it should be taken, then and there, to his house, nearly
i two miles off, and dropped into the letter box of his front door. To this we
1; all appended our names, and, moreover, loosely tied a card (on which also we
(i had written our names), to the same slate, which we placed at our feet beneath
II the table.
i In answer to our request that we should hear the sound of the slate in the
11 process of its mysterious abstraction from the room, we heard a faint thud, and
j were told that the matter looked for was accomplished. So leaving two of the
i undersigned with Dr. Monck, three of us started off in a cab for our friend’s
j house. On our arrival there (and it was now past midnight), we opened the
j door, entered the hall, and with the card tied up exactly as we had insecurely
| fixed it, there in the letter box lay the slate.—Thomas Collet ; Lillie Col-
| let ; Hensleigh Wedgwood ; George Arnsbt ; William P. Adshead.
! FORM MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH A PRIVATE MEDIUM.
BT CHARLES BLACKBURN.
On Sunday evening, the 2nd December, I went alone to have my last
! seance with Miss Katie S. Cook, at Hackney, before returning here.
| Mrs. Cook, with the two younger children and myself, were the only
] sitters. The medium during the previous week had not been well,
| therefore was unfitted to lose much vital power.
The s&ance room is excellently adapted for the purpose. It has two
windows with Venetian blinds, one facing to the front and the other
| facing the back ; so that when the gas is put out, and the Venetians
opened, the gas in the street casts a diffused light, and we can all see
j each other. The room has double folding doors, which are wide open
during the seance, but two green baize curtains hang over the opening ;
I the medium sits on a very low chair just within the curtains. On the
J occasion now under notice she had on a pink woollen dressing-gown for
I warmth, over her black silk dress and ornaments. The room is
II carpeted all over, and the doors I locked myself, to avoid any inter-
' ruption.
ji After the medium seated herself she became very restless ; she kept
| leaning first on one side and then on the other in her chair. The spirit
“Lillie” called me into the cabinet, and told me to hold both the
j medium’s hands, as this would soothe her. My chair was close to the
j curtains, so I rose and went inside and sat close to her, taking hold of
j both her hands. She soon became calmer, and “Lillie” ordered me
] back again to my chair, which order I obeyed, but I left a little of the
[j curtain open, so that I could peep in as I sat. I called to Katie, whom
\ | I saw in her pink dress, “ I wish ‘ Lillie ’ would be quick; nor do I want
11 you to go into trance.” She replied, “ I am not in trance, and ‘ Lillie ’
)| is formed, for she is now doing something with the Venetian blind.”
I At the time the medium was speaking I saw her in her chair, and I
i saw another form, whom we call “Lillie,” at the window blind; it
11 came to the front of the curtain, and said to me, “ My medium must
j go into trance, if only a few minutes, as it will benefit her, and I shall
! be more ‘ solidified,’ so I will go to her.” “ Lillie ” returned to me very
|i quickly, and I said, “ Now, ‘ Lillie,’ I want you to let me tell my Man-
| Chester friends I have seen you materialise whilst I held the medium.”
ji She replied, “£ry, but my medium is so worried. You must not
j let her clutch or writhe, for that stops or impedes my coming. When
] I do, you feel how her heart will bump ; it is that which I act through.”
! I replied, “ Must I come now ? ” She said, “Yes.” So I rose from my
)j seat, went inside the curtain, and woke up the medium. But “ Lillie ”
i had fled. The medium asked me what I had come for, and I told her
jj I was to hold her whilst materialisation went on. So my right hand
11 took her right; my left hand was placed on her heart; her left hand
J i was on the back of her chair with her head in it, as she had a headache.
! In a few minutes she began twisting and trying to get out of her chair,
| and out of my hand, and became only half conscious. A voice said
! (not far from her head on her left side), “ Hold her very fast, as I have
ji begun.” I did so, and felt her heart beating violently. I noticed her
j lap full of shining mist, which accumulated and travelled down her left
jj hip to the carpet, when suddenly a white draped form rose from the
|; floor, and came close to our faces. The medium shouted, “Keep away !
(j Don’t let that thing touch me 1 ” Its face was covered, but it spoke and
jj said, “My medium is conscious, and I am not properly formed.” It
Ji then suddenly vanished, but as suddenly reappeared a head taller. The
jj medium almost fought with me to get away, whilst I kept asking the
jj form to touch my face with the drapery, which was done, and beauti-
j fully “soft finish calico” it was; it then pressed its forehead against
j mine, pushing my head considerably backwards, and said, “ Good
j night.’’ As it quickly sank and vanished near my feet, I suddenly let
j go the medium’s right hand and tried to lay hold of the drapery, but I
j was too late. I but touched the medium’s pink dress, which then was
jj all shining beautifully. The medium jumped up from her seat, saying
Jj how tired and unwell she was, &c.
ji I now leave your scientists to ponder over facts they ridicule so much,
ji It is useless to try to admit dogmatic sceptics, who worry mediums, to
jj see such wonders. I, for one, will not.
jj Mr. E. Rondi, of 22, Montague-place, Russell-square, London, has
ji had frequent seances at his rooms with Miss Cook, somewhat varied,
ji but highly satisfactory. These he, I daresay, will report, and show that
ji it is not necessary for the medium to be at her own home.
Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester, December 6tb, 1877.
Dec. 14, 1877.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
288
OTortegiponTience
[Great freedom is given to correspondents,u>hosometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.]
THE LIBRAKY OP THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—I have the pleasure to report that, in response to Mr. Peter¬
son’s appeal on behalf of the Library of the National Association of
Spiritualists, viz., that the sum of £30 should be raised by donations of
£5, Mr. Peterson himself heading the list, I have received a request
from Mr. Calder that his name should be added to it.
As the list has to be completed before the 1st January, I shall hope
to receive four other names before the end of the year, and will ask you
to aid us by giving publicity to this announcement. E. Kislingbury,
Secretary to the British National Association oj Spiritualists,
PROBLEMS.
Sir,—It is hardly worth while to encumber your columns with any j
notice of Mr. for is it Mrs. ?) La Roy Sunderland’s strange fancies; but,
to avoid misrepresentation, I will ask to be allowed to say that I have
never “ confessed my inability to solve any problems, ”_save those that !
trench on the domain of Omniscience. I did hut mildly hint that my j
querist was asking questions which are (in the strict etymological sense j
of the word) impertinent, and which, moreover, were phrased in lan¬
guage which even their author, I should think, could not comprehend.
  M. A. (Oxon.)
SPIRIT DRAPERY.
Sir,—Mr. Coleman is right about the drapery. Some of it is un¬
doubtedly brought in, but whence ? Some, again, is apparently woven i
on the spot, but how ? I suspect, if I were permitted to cut off a piece i1
from the drapery which I saw evolved under my gaze with Monck or i |
Eglinton, that I should find it very like Manchester goods. The forms h
have very various qualities of drapery, and at private seances, where no j1
public medium was present, and where no materialisation was presented, |,
I have felt drapery that varied with the conditions from the substance of j \
the finest lawn to that of a Turkish towel. I have a bit, cut off from a j(
very fine specimen, so presented, and it is permanent enough, though j (
the remainder vanished. Does that prove it to be “ a fabric of earth” ? |<
We do not know as yet.
As to the weight of the forms, Mr. Coleman must remember, I think, i,
an experiment recorded by Col. Olcott, when Katie King varied in <
weight very considerably, and apparently at will. The weight in some j j
cases was quite at variance with the size and stature of the form. I <
think similar experiments have been made by other investigators, but
until they have been frequently repeated, wo cannot say anything definite
on the weight of these figures.
What effects the mighty magician can produce ? and what material
he uses ? whether from the sitters anything ? and if so, what is taken ?
whether the forms are wholly fabricated as our bodies are ? and if so,
how ? and of what matter they are structured ? what the method of
building up ? and who is the artificer ?—these are questions that remain
for solution. W. Stainton-Moses.
mr. rita’s mediumship.
Sir,—On Sunday evening, the 9th inst., a seance was held at Mr.
Cocker’s, Dalston-lane, London, through the mediumship of Mr. Rita,
an unassuming young man, who seems to possess great power. The
circle, when formed, consisted of six persons, viz., Mr, and Mrs.
Cocker, Miss Cocker, Miss Lizzie Thompson, and myself. The room
was a small parlour at the back of a shop, and the hour, soon after
seven in the evening. We sat round a small table, with two gas burners
over our heads; there was a pianoforte in the room, also a guitar in one
corner; the strings of the guitar were nearly all loose. The gas was
put out, and almost immediately the medium became entranced. On the
table had been laid a kind of “ improvised speaking trumpet,” made
or the occasion by Mr. Cocker of a roll of music. We joined hands,
and knocks were soon heard. The first spirit who announced his pre¬
sence was one who calls himself “ Tim,” and alleges he was an Irish
farmer, of Waterford, who died (not altogether in the “ odour of
sanctity”) some twenty-two years ago. After answering a number of
questions which were put to him, several other alleged spirits controlled
the medium, but after this the most extraordinary manifestations took
place. We sang several verses from well-known hymns, and then a
spirit spoke through the paper speaking-tube, announcing himself as
Charley Barry, the once well-known clown. Almost immediately the
guitar (a very large one) was heard, at first as if the strings were being
fastened, and then it floated over our heads, playing and keeping time
to our singing. It struck the gas glasses without doing them any injury,
and then it played on tbe top of my head; afterwards it touched every
person in the room, and then it was placed at the back of Miss Thomp¬
son’s chair by the invisibles. I asked Charley if he remembered Baron
Nicholson (once of Judge and Jury celebrity), and was immediately
answered, in a comical voice, J‘ Of course I do; ” ho than gave me three
blows on the side of my face with the paper speaking-trumpet. Now,
all the time these marvels were taking place, the continuity of the circle
was not once broken, Miss Cocker having hold of the medium by one
hand and Miss Thompson by the other. I had hold of Miss Cocker’s
hand on one side, and of Mrs. Cocker’s on the other. Mr. Cocker had
his wife’s hand on one side, and Miss Thompson’s on the other, and the
last-named lady had hold of the medium, as already stated.
All at once “ Charley ” asked Mr. Cocker for twopence, but as none
of us had coppers to that amount, Mr. C. placed sixpence on the table,
asking what it was wanted for. Charley replied that he would take it
to a shop.
Shortly afterwards the voice of “ Charley” asked Mrs. Cocker if she
liked grapes. She replied “ Yes.” A fine bunch of white grapes then
soon made its appearance ; how brought there not one of us could tell.
Mr. and Mrs. Cocker both declared, as well as their daughter, that they
had not such a thing as a grape in the house, and that as for the medium
his hands were never unloosed all the time, either by Miss Thompson or
Miss Cocker. I partook of the grapes together with the rest of the
sitters. Presently a shower of very fine broken rice came down upon
the table. After thanking “ Charley,” who must have brought us
nearly a pound of grapes, Mr. Cocker asked if he could suspend a
chair on one of the sitters’ arms, which, it appears, had been done on a
previous occasion when I was not present. He said he would try.
Presently a small voice came close to my ear and whispered “I say,
old fellow, “ Would you mind placing the chair on the table ? ” I rose up
and complied with the request, and remained standing, we still keeping up
the chain of hands. Immediately I heard the chair removed from the
table, and in a few seconds Miss Cocker called out that it was on her
arm, and that it had been there placed without her ceasing to hold the
medium, so that here, as in the case of the grapes and rice, we had matter
passed through matter.
This closed our seance, and the gas was turned up. We then found
the guitar in a different part of the room to what it had been at
first, and the strings well together. I was the first in the room, and
can solemnly affirm there was no chance of any conjuring. No one
but we six were in the house during the hour and a half I was
sitting in the circle. There was only one door to the room, and that
shut all the time; the room was in darkness, but we had hold of
hands the whole period. Several times warm spirit hands touched
us. The medium never left his chair, and was entranced the greater
part of the time. He is not paid by any one, he is a private friend
of Mr. Cocker, and shrinks from trading on his marvellous powers.
Can such things be without our special wonder ? R. H. Marsh.
14, Wilton-road, Dalston, London, 10th Dec., 1877.
We certify the above to be a perfectly correct account.—R. F. Cocker ;
E. Cocker; M. M. Cocker.
The National Association op Spiritualists.—Last Tuesday night,
at a meeting of the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, Mr. E. D. Rogers was, in the absence of the President,
voted into the chair. The other members present were Mr. Morell
Theobald, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Stainton-Moses, Mr.
C. C. Massey, Mr. A. Joy, Mr. C. Pearson, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs. Wiseman, and Miss Houghton. Fourteen
new members were elected, and there were four resignations. Miss
Lizzie Doten, of Boston, U.S., and Mr. H. J. Newton, were invited to
become honorary members. A vote of thanks was given to Mr. Joy for
his efficient performance of the duties of secretary during the absence
of Miss Kislingbury in America. The three-years guarantee fund,
contributed to strengthen the hands of the Association during its
infancy, coming to an end this year, a discussion took place as to the
best means of successfully conducting the financial business of the
Association during the year 1878, and resolutions were passed in
relation thereto. It having been recently determined by the Council to
discontinue the monthly agenda because of its costliuess, it was now
resolved to continue it for another three months, and to increase it by
the publication therein of news not previously passed by the Council.
Mr. Dawson Rogers suggested that instead of Miss Kislingbury drawing
up the agenda as heretofore, Mr. E. T. Bennett should be appointed to
j (I help her in the editing, but this was not moved or seconded. Mr. Fitz-
j' | Gerald reported that electro-magnetic apparatus had been fitted up, in
I I order to ascertain whether any sensitives could see Reichenbach’s odic
I (| flames from magnets, but that as yet the few who had tried so to do had
111 not been decisively successful. Yery valuable presents to the library of
i ] | the Association, by M. Constant, of Smyrna, and Madame Blavatsky, of
hi New York, were announced ; also presents from Dr. Crowell, Colonel
I)] Olcott, Mr. La Croix, Mr. Berkeley, Mr. J. J. Morse, Mr. Luther Colby,
i | and Mr. W, H. Harrison. After the transaction of some other routine
II j business, the meeting came to an end.
jjj Mrs. Woodhull in London.—Last Saturday Mrs. Woodhull gave
ijj her second lecture in London, in St. James’s Great Hall, which was
j) | about two-thirds full. The listeners, as before, were quiet and good-
(| tempered, but two or three of her points elicited special marks of ap*
m probation. One of these was that men ought in all honesty to be
i i judged by society, by religion, and by law, by the same moral code as
j (| women. Another point which brought forth the warm applause of the
11 j whole house was her truthful description of match-making mothers.
! | i She said that the woman who made her daughter sell herself for a title
j or for wealth, was no better in any way than a woman who sent a girl
|) i into the street to sell herself for what price she would fetch, and that
11 j the church ceremony at the end of the former trade transaction did not
hj alter the insult it offered to religion and morality, nor the injury it
) inflicted upon posterity. She said that she hoped the public would
||j judge her for themselves, and not by what the newspapers said, and
| j I she opined that she was not well received in this country because she
j ) was an American. This suggestion was received with exclamations of
|(| “No! No!” The fact is that Mrs. Woodhull is better received than
j)j if she were an Englishwomen, but her lectures are not fairly describ-
m able as a orations ” in this land of great actors and actresses; more-
<j over, judged upon their merits from various points of view, they do not
i come up to the expectations which had been raised. Nevertheless, she
j (| broaches various very important questions which ought to be examined,
j)j and which she claims to put before the public from a deep sense ot
i )j duty, and as an act of personal self-sacrifice. She says that in conse-
iji; quence of so doing she wears a crown of thorns,” which she hopes
|)j will prove a “crown of roses” to her daughter, when the value of the
work she (Mrs. Woodhull) is doing is recognised in future years. .
Dec. 14, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
' who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. ed.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7a. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Gd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of SpintuaUsm to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6cL
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s. .
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rale, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. Gd.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. Gd.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Yala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life pn earth, Best edition, gilt, xos. Gd.; cheap edition,
7». Gd.. ^
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. Gd.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. Gd.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 560 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. Gd.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirauc n-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. Gd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s'. Gd.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. Gd.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 8s. Gd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO-
I BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie See)'." s. d.
Nature's Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . , ..76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . • .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . ' . . .86
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . • . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . ' . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . , .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . ■ . . .86
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology 3 0
Morning Lectures , , , , , , .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
S d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) .... 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 0
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind’.; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S'anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams. Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P: Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale .  .   10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
SlMULTANEOUSIiY WITNESSED BY THE AUTHOR AND OTHER
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Hontgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmat’ses, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be -
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ;■ but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossibie.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.Q.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 foi' Is., post free, or 500for Is. dd., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age."
rpHE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
JL describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
Interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s( 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
IV
THE .SPIRITUALIST
Deo. 14, 1877,
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE
MATURE -DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS,
LORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which-all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
-END’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
Various forms of indigestion, use END’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
g'NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Compai atively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. END’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “ nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.’’—European Mail, Nov. I,
1877.
E
E
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“ Since I have used END’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
NO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
“Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.’’
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
. s IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S fruit salt,
AS A
GEITERAI, LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
'' FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
tn which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aidingaigestion is most striking.
I^NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
tlie most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. . As a means of preserving and restoring
health; it is unequalled ; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and'invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects whdn used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house-
- hold-in-, the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J.C.Eno.,
EISA’S FRUIT SALT.—-u I am very mucli pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
Su efllpacy.by its having enthely cured me of indigestion.”—
• , ^ T. Wood, Tudor-road, Canterbury.
YITORTHY* OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
• Y T - THE HEART, eajHLecUby Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion,'frequently called (Or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“ Ort April 141 purchased a bottle o£ your FRUIT SALT,
not fepling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
. I never anticipated when Ibougntit. I had suffered more
dr less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few yeai's. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at-night my sleep
was vgryonuch disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT, SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable' symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have, not since returned. Out of gratitude for
themenefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, bftth in London and Yarmouth. At, the
same time,-I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you'can maka^whatever«use you please.— I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, W. B. Beckett,” .
. Aug. 80,1877.—10, York-square, Commerci^l-roadf»London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENC,’S; FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have bqen imposed on .by a worthless imitation. . TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
; q . Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 6d. and 4s. Gd. ,
Sole Agent for Paris—PH ARM ACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
- ‘ LAPAIX,
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
-AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BT WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Liines.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—2G. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome fl'om
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads:—“No)one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
‘ The Lazy Lays incliide many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent. .. . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News,
‘ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense."
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.. . . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover. ... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
• From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents... . The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”'
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are. exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea ;• it is intensely humorous....
Those .who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
natu#e,'Will Rnd what tlnjy want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.. .. The serious and sentimental verses belong to the typo
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News,
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome."
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [iV./l. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of . Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads’’ hut the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he,
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems'
and prose essays, is hound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. Gd., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor qf
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Eorce
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Pred iction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retfovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method.and its Results—The- Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gaz'mg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy ’ of Animals — SnaU Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IXAction of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment, of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly (Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and . Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subieet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid-Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce'
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected. ■
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in' the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestioh—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIIIProduction of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Traveiling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI —Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary. ■ r '*•
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street,' W.O. •
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C,
