Registered is a Newspaper.
f) JOUf(N^I<
dlbtstf Pttospapi rotwtrfjit ixiiij; Sptritealisnt in ®nai ^riiaiir.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regulariy on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : jl, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindeqstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja» opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : JosefstaadtErzherzqg, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S, : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 9i8> Spring Garden-street, WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 264. (Yol. XL—No. 11.) LONDON: FKIDAY, SEPTEMBEK 14, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
contents*
Mesmerism, and Hints for Beginners. By Captain John
James  ...  | ;.J :.. 121
The Secret of Secularism. By J. T. Markley ... 123
Notes from Lake George     124
Spiritualism in Brighton ... j ...    ... .•...  124
Employment for'Women ...    ...    ...125
Interference with Liberty of Opinion ...  125
What Chang Wau Ho Says ... ...    125
Slate-Writing Phenomena under Test Conditions  126
The Late Robert Dale Owen... ... ... 1...     126
The Death of Thomas de Qhincey ... ... ... ...   126
New Books  ... ... .......     ... ... 127
Mediums Tested by Egotistical Physicists    ...127
PoetryA Wish   ...     128
Correspondence:—Astrology, “Prospero’s Prediction in
the Pall Mall Gazette—Spirit Identity—Idealism and
Materialism—An Alleged Ex-Medium who has Seen
the Error of his Ways—Materialisation of Spirit
Heads, No. 11—The Real Identity of Spirits—The
Parliamentary Lunacy Law Committee—Spiritualism
tn Birmingham  ... ... ...     128
Automatic Writing and Spirit-Rapping in the Seventeeth
Century       ...  131
“ The Oracle ” (Poetry)      ...   132
Paragraphs:—The Last Illness of One of the Davenport
Brothers, 124; A Seance at Dalston, 125 ; Authority
in Religion, 126 ; The Work of the Spirit-World, 126 ;
Trying his own Specific, 126; The National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, 127; Speculation and Straps, 127;
The Fiji Islanders’ Belief, 131; Contradictory Spirit
Messages, 131; Temptation, 131; Spirit Music near a
Dying Woman... ...   '    131
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress oj the Science and Ethics of
Spiritiialism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHHD IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL. oldest Newspaper connected With the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout theGflobe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communicar
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science 11876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-fiolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey: Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Jbad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain: Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton, FRG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .'Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post.free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ohurchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Oapucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
C,b. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-streCt. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W.JEL Harrison, Spiritualist News-
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-sfreet, London, W.O.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff, Ad¬
dress, G Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for September, 1877.
Wednesday, 5th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Saturday, 8th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 pm.
„ „ Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
Tuesday, llf/t.—Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ . „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, lith.—Seance Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, Vith.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
Friday, 21st.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, Vlnd.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
Wednesday, 2Sthl—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 28th.—Library Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 29th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
N.B.—Members of Council and of Committees are requested
to accept this notice, as the Monthly Agenda will not in future
be sent out to each member as hithertq.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Rrixton.
( The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &e., &a., apply
to—
   H: E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec,
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6<L; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
established 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
"Pu ■B’cs rrkwxn1
HENRY D. JENCKEN,* ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, it ember of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association, for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.) n
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton
Rooms—53, Sigdon Road, Dalston Lane, Dalston,
London, E.
(Close to Hackney Downs Station, Great Eastern Railway,
and five minutes’ walk of Hackney Station, North London
Railway.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to specialsCances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have'the privilege of attending the vublic seances o,
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership .•—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of 432 2s.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
(As exhibited at the Oaxton celebration), is a self-inking one
and can easily be worked by a child of ten. Ils work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saying you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of. printing
materials,. specimens of type, <5tc., &c., post free 13 stamps,
0. G. SQUINTANI & Oo., Patentees.
Show Rooms :—18, Liverpool Street, London, E.O.
Price from £3 to £9 10*.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O,
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet 'with full particulars, may be had on application.
, FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
BRIGHTON.-—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.  
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7.30.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke's Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet. which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, price 4d.
CLAIRYOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
he had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualis-
newspaper branch office, 38j Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
11
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Sept. 14, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION <)F
SPIRITUALISTS, fj
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Colder , Esq., l, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Dldsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-vlllas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridpre-street, Hyderpark. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
H mywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C. ' -
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96,.Portland-place. W.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev. N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.l).,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N-W. ' _
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.   f, •
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-vllla, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Blnney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
CofHn, W. H„ 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., lateofH.M.S. “Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lyntou-lodge, vanbrugh-park-road. Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Clieetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 0, Loughborough-rd,North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendlnning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Deiamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, 11. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isltam, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W. ;
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond,
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Str'awbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morel!, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. V.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., careof A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withali, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq,, 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J, H. Andre, Esq, H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de PEmpereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, KhandeRassim Pacha aBahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay. President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Banca Fenzi, Florence, Italy,
err Constantin Delhaz, Singerstrasse No. 7, Vienna, Italy.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co,,New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. LaTresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
Mi Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.I)., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Snear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes; Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2. Rue de Rocrol, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee. U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M, ae Bassompiene, 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de l’Union,''67, Rue du Midi,
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby,,ll, Rue.de yieniie, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union (3'prings, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte dejBullet, Hotel de I’Athertee. Rue Sdribe, Paris.
J. L. O’SulliVan,Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-placeVDorset-square,
Londou.N. W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Roselnll, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe,-Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W, Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R.'HallQck; 54; Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani,.Salita Pontecofvo, 60, Naples, ff
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaunaarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
T Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
.8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool. .
L’Unidn Spirite etMagnetique/- Seeretacy—M. Charles-Frits!, 121,
• 2~ .* 1 ■- Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smartf 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South, America. Presi-
 dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita, ■ 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
GRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
will be published as soon as Mrs. W eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolnor, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; ,3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALIS5I EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys .of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6<L, cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY and Rich. London Spirit-
ualist Office. 
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion hook to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind_from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London. 
"OEVUE SPIRITE, Journal 4’etudes psycho-
Jl\i logiques, fonde par Allan K&rdec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLAGE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
Eohdon or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
/CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
VV ADOLPHE DIDIER,- Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Catnpden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired).
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.O.
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
71, Pocock-street, Blackfriars-road, London.
MR. J. HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasant,
East-road, City-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en¬
gagements to start seances and to develops mediums.
PSYCHOMETRY—For delineation of cha¬
racter and information on development consult (if by
letter enclose photo and 10s. 6d. as fee) Mr. J. Skipsey, Ash-
ington Colliery, near Morpeth, Northumberland.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER is about to form a
Spiritual Circle for the higher forms of mental mani¬
festations, to be held weekly,Jand the number of sitters limited.
Those who wish to join these regular seances are requested to
correspond with Mr. Fletcher, 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury,
W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRIT¬
UALISTS.
IVTUSICAL BOX.—A fine Musical Box,
-Lv_S_ eight-aired, and in good condition, to be RAFFLED
FOR. Thirty-two shares at half-a-crown each. A few shares
still to be disposed of. Application to be made at once to the
Secretary, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. THEO •
bald. Part 1,price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300for Is., post free, or bDOfor Is. 6d., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIO MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge oi truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age."
The food that we live on. in¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, or the despair of
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This boob, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Histosical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
% Jpjffllb, of % I’tjogr^ss uf aith sF ^ptijitealwit.
Volujvie Bleven. Number Bleve^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14th, 1877.
MESMERISM, AND HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
BY CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES.
As some of the readers of The Spiritualist interested in
the subject of mesmerism may wish for information respect¬
ing the best method of inducing the mesmeric sleep, per¬
haps a few observations on that point may prove acceptable.
Many English writers have given valuable instructions for
beginners, but as most of their works are out of print and
difficult to obtain, it possibly may not be considered a work
of supererogation to offer the experiences • of one who has
devoted many years to a study of the subject. It may, how¬
ever, be useful to inquirers to draw their attention to two
books lately republished, viz., the invaluable work of Dr.
Gregory, late Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh Univer¬
sity, and the lectures of Dr. J. Bovee Dods.
In the following observations on some of the methods
used by practitioners for the production of the mesmeric
sleep, it should be understood that the writer merely gives
the results of his own experience when he recommends any
particular procedure. Other methods, used by other mesme-
risers, have been found equally successful, and it is probable
that the real desiderata or requisites for a successful operator
are patience, perseverance, and an earnest desire to succeed;
the best frame of mind on the part of the patient is, if pos¬
sible, a state of perfect passivity.
The beginner will probably soon find that he must occa¬
sionally vary his method of mesmerising, according to the
habit or idiosyncrasy of each patient, and that any particular
formula, however efficacious in the generality of cases,
sometimes requires to be supplemented by other methods.
It is recommended that the mesmeriser should direct his
patient either to place himself in an easy-chair, or to lie
down on a couch, so that he may be perfectly at ease. The
mesmeriser then, either standing or seated opposite his
patient, should place his hand, with extended fingers, over
the head, and make passes slowly down to the extremities,
as near as possible to the face and body without touching the
patient, taking care at the end of each pass to close his hand
until he returns to the head, when he should again extend
his fingers and proceed as before. It is also useful after
making several of these passes to point the fingers close to
the patient’s eyes, which procedure, in many cases, has more
effect than the passes. This simple process should be con¬
tinued for about twenty minutes at the first seances^ and
may be expected to produce more or less effect according to
the susceptibility of the patient. Should the operator per¬
ceive any signs of approaching sleep, he should persevere
with the passes until the eyes close, and should he then
observe a quivering of the eyelids, he may be pretty certain
that his efforts will be successful.
Many experienced mesmerisers have come to the conclusion
that the will plays an important part in the production of
the sleep and in relief of pain. Whether this be the case or
not, it is recommended that the operator should concentrate
his energies, and earnestly will, or wish that his patient
should derive benefit from his exertions. Some very suscep¬
tible subjects, in the course of ten minutes, or even less time,
will suddenly fall back, apparently insensible, in which case
the following tests will prove whether or no the real mesmeric
coma has been produced. Raise the patient’s hand, and
should it fall immediately as a dead weight it is a good sign ;
then raise one of the eyelids, and should the eyeball be
observed to be turned upwards and wandering in its orbit,
there can be - little doubt of the operator’s success. In some
rare cases the eyeball will be found in its natural position
but with the pupil much dilated, no contraction taking place
on the approach of a lighted candle. Even at this early stage
the patient may bear the prick of a pin on the back of his
hand without betraying any symptom of pain.
Sometimes slow breathing, or placing the hand on the fore-
j head will deepen the sleep, but the beginner should, as a
| rule, avoid concentrating the mesmeric force on the head or
| region of the heart, and confine himself as much as possible
I to the passes “ aux grands courants” as the French writers
I term them, i.e., the long, slow passes from the head to the
feet. Should the above described signs of mesmeric coma
! not declare themselves at the end of twenty or thirty minutes,
i the mesmeriser should ask the patient whether he felt any
| peculiar sensations during the process, and if so, whether they
were more apparent during the passes, or when the fingers
i were pointed at the eyes. By these inquiries he will soon
j learn the best method of mesmerising, applicable to each
i particular case, and he should not be disheartened if he does
j not succeed in producing marked effects at the first or even
| after many successive seances. Pain may be removed and
| diseases cured or greatly alleviated without the production of
i sleep, and many patients succumb at length, who have for
| many weeks been apparently unaffected and proof against
I all the resources of their mesmerisers.
Supposing sleep to be at length induced, the next and very
| important question is, how to awaken the patient. With
| most sensitives this is a very easy process, for merely blowing
! or fanning over the head and face with a few transverse passes
| will at once dispel the sleep. Should, however, the patient
| experience a difficulty in opening his eyes, then with the
I balls of his thumbs the operator should rub firmly and
| briskly over the eyebrows from the root of the nose outwards
| towards the temples, and finish by blowing or fanning,
! taking special care, before leaving the patient that—judging
| from the expression of his eyes and other signs—he has
| evidently returned to his normal state; no patient should be
I left until the operator is perfectly satisfied that he is wide
| awake. Should the above methods fail, and there be a dif-
| ficulty in arousing the patient, the mesmeriser may fre-
| quently bargain with him as to how long the sleep is to last,
| and should he promise to awake in the course of one or two
| hours, he will generally{fulfil his promise by waking almost at
| the very minute named. The mesmeriser may also insist
I that his patient should awake at a certain time, and will in
| many cases be obeyed, but of course this does not answer
| with all patients.
This power of acting on or impressing the patient’s mind
I may be carried into and continued in the normal or waking
I state, and might be used with good effect in the treatment
| of dipsomania and other morbid habits, so that the patient
j would in many cases, in consequence of impressions made
I during his sleep, be led to entertain an actual disgust at the
j mere smell or taste of any alcoholic liquor.
The patient during his sleep can frequently give valuable
| directions to his mesmeriser, both as to the best method of
| mesmerising him, and the most effective means of termi-
I nating the sleep. In some rare cases the sleep is so pro-
j longed, in spite of all the operator’s efforts to dispel it, that
| he is alarmed, and the patient becomes infected by his fears,
j Above all things, the mesmeriser should preserve his presence
| of mind, and he may be assured that the longest sleep will
| end spontaneously.
It may as well be observed in this place that the patient
j should not be touched by any one but his mesmeriser, unless
| he wishes it, or at least gives his consent. He can, perhaps,
bear the touch of certain individuals, and may express a
repugnance to be touched by others, and this quite irrespec¬
tive of attachment or repulsion with regard to those indivi¬
duals in his normal state. With most sensitives it is quite
immaterial who or how many people touch them; but there
are occasionally cases when by so touching them a very dis¬
tressing state, called “cross mesmerism,” is produced, and
the more particularly in the cases of patients who are natu-
122
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Sept. 14, 1877.
rally highly nervous and, perhaps, hysterical. It is in these
cases of cross mesmerism that we most often find a difficulty ]
in determining the sleep.
The best plan for a beginner or investigator is to witness
the procedures and practice of some experienced mesmeriser ; j
it is much better than relying on written instructions. Before j
I tried to mesmerise anybody I observed what others did, |
then closely imitated them, and had many successful cases j
before I opened a book on the subject.
The treatment of patients during the different stages of |
the mesmeric sleep must be learnt by practice and observa- j
tion, and such treatment is almost impossible to be taught
solely by books, although certainly many valuable hints
may be gleaned from them. The fact is, that scarcely two
cases are exactly alike in every particular, and each patient
is more or less a separate study. This it is that makes it so
difficult to lay down any arbitrary or direct rules to be
followed in all cases. For instance, slow breathing on the
top of the head or on the forehead, in some cases produces a
most beneficial effect; in other cases it may produce excite¬
ment, to be relieved by fanning or blowing over the head,
and by passes drawn from the head down to the feet; the I
same is the case with breathing over the heart, a most ;
valuable treatment in the majority of cases where there is '
palpitation or other disorder of that organ, but in some in- !
stances it may produce rather distressing symptoms, also to ]
be dissipated by the fanning or demesmerising process, i
Should there be pain, or spasmodic contractions, rigidity, or !
catalepsy, steady breathing at the junction of the head with '
the back of the neck, should be tried, in most cases the relief <
is almost instantaneous. But the long passes to the very !
ends of the fingers and toes are likely to be the best. Passes j
at right angles from the seat of pain are often excellent, as i
if the operator were extracting the pain out of the part into j
the air. ! {
It is not, however, to be supposed that the untoward i<
effects above alluded to are by any means of common oc- i
currence; but it is the duty of any one pretending to give j
advice on this subject, to caution beginners to be as careful j
as possible in their treatment of patients who place them- I
selves under their care. The patients themselves can in 11
many cases act as guides to their mesmerisers by telling jj
them the immediate effects of the different methods em- j
ployed, and this, quite irrespective of the natural shrewdness j
or dulness of the sensitives, or whether they be educated or |.
uneducated. j
As a general rule, a mesmeriser when treating a serious |
case of disease should not attempt to elicit any of the higher j
mesmeric phenomena, but content himself with exerting all j
his energies to benefit his patient. Should, however, the |
faculty or power of p introvision” declare itself, then he may j
enlist the assistance of that faculty, as frequently very I
marked and extraordinary benefit has been derived from the j
sensitive’s lucid description of the nature and seat of his |
disease, and his clear instinctive knowledge of the best I j
remedies to be applied. j
It is, however, strongly recommended that when serious |
disease exists, the patient’s ordinary medical attendant I
should be consulted before mesmerism is employed. All the !
important medical cases I have attended were undertaken j
with the consent or at the express desire of a medical man. ||
There are certain other methods of producing the mesmeric |
coma, the most common of which may be called “the |
thumb pressure and staring process,” employed by Monsieur |
Lafontaine, a well-known French mesmeriser who came to j
this country many years ago on a lecturing tour. He seated j
himself opposite the patient, and taking his hands pressed I
the balls of his thumbs with his own, at the same time i |
gazing fixedly into the patient’s eyes, a method which j)
frequently produced a powerful effect. Mr. Braid, a surgeon j |
then practising at Manchester, having observed the effects I j
produced by Monsieur Lafontaine, tried a series of experi- j >
ments, the success of which led him to believe that he had j j
discovered the secret of mesmerism. ! I
Mr. Braid found that by fixing the patient’s gaze upon an j j
object above the level of vision, a pencil case held up, or ||
a cork fixed on the mid-forehead, he could induce a peculiar I
condition which he called “Hypnotic, or nervous sleep.” jj
During this state he elicited many wonderful phenomena, l(
| j and had great success in the treatment of disease. In my
j opinion—and I have witnessed many experiments exhibited
j on public platforms by the followers or imitators of Mr.
j Braid—the hypnotic state is not identical with the mesmeric
j coma, and, in fact, Mr. Braid himself is said to have
j acknowledged afterwards that his was a new discovery, and
j not merely an explanation of mesmerism. There are many
jJ phases of the hypnotic condition that widely differ from
mesmerism; for instance, Mr. Braid observed that all the
senses, with the exception of sight, were wonderfully ex¬
alted ; so much so, that he found by measurement that the
hearing is about twelve times more acute than in the natural
condition. “ Thus, a patient who could not hearthe tick-
. ing of a watch beyond three feet when awake, could do so
| when hypnotised at the distance of thirty-five feet, and walk
j to it in a direct line without difficulty or hesitation. Smell
j in like manner is so wonderfully exalted that a patient has
been able to trace a rose through the air when held forty-
six feet from her.” Now, every experienced mesmeriser knows
that during the true mesmeric sleep the functions of the
different senses are, as a rule, temporarily suspended, and
that the sensitive only smells, feels and tastes in sympathy
with or through his mesmeriser, and that in most cases he
is completely deaf to. all sounds save that of his mesmeriser’s
voice. Again, during the “ Hypnotic ” state it is easy to
j infect the patient with any delusion the operator may wish,
so that he may fancy a pocket-handkerchief, to be either a
child or a serpent.
During that phase of mesmeric sleep, called the sleep¬
waking state, such delusions could seldom if ever be pro¬
duced, for during that condition the mind of the sensitive is
remarkably acute; but, of course, if by touching the phre¬
nological organs, or by other means, a state of suggestive
) dreaming is induced, the sensitive may then be persuaded
| that the glass of water he is drinking is wine or brandy, and
he will soon be as tipsy as if he had really imbibed so much
strong alcoholic liquor.
Probably, however, both these states, induced artificially,
together with natural somnambulism, cataleptic trance, and
the products of disease are all intimately connected, and
it is a great desideratum that medical men should study the
subject, because from their education and training as phy¬
siologists, they should be able to turn it to good account in
their treatment of many forms of nervous disease. Of
course, it cannot be expected that medical men should them¬
selves be operators; that is quite out of the question; they
could not afford the time; but, as is the practice in
some of the northern countries of Europe, they might
superintend one or more mesmerisers who could act under
their directions.
Dr. Esdaile, who was so successful in the Government
hospitals in India, employed a staff of native operators, as
he soon found that in that climate his own health could
not stand the fatigue of mesmerising. In his report to the
Government he stated that “ out of 261 operations, 215 of
which were extirpations of tumours of all sizes, varying in
weight from ten to one hundred and three pounds, not
one patient had died from the direct effects of the operation.
The deaths that took place amounted to five per cent., and
happened days and weeks after the operation, from fever,
dysentery, and exhaustion.”
The Governor-General, Lord Dalhousie, marked his sense
of Dr. Esdaile’s services by promoting him to the rank of
“ Presidency Surgeon.” It is evident that Dr. Esdaile could
never have achieved such remarkable success had he not em¬
ployed a large body of assistants.
There can be little doubt that after Dr. Esdaile’s trium¬
phant success, and the numerous and well-authenticated
cases of successful operations performed under similar con¬
ditions, both in England and France, that had it not been
for the discovery of the use of ether and chloroform in sur¬
gical operations, mesmerism would at this day be in general
use, not only as an anaesthetic, but also in the treatment of
all forms of disease. There is still one great advantage
which the mesmeric coma possesses, in comparing it with
the effects of ether and chloroform in severe and difficult
operations, and that is the power of the mesmeriser to pro¬
long the state of insensibility to almost any length of time
without danger, and that all the subsequent dressings can
Sept. 14,1877., THE SPIRITUALIST. 123
be carried on during the sleep, without pain or exhaustion,
or inconvenience to the patient.
The majority of the members of the medical profession
appear to have hastily and erroneously concluded, that be¬
cause chloroform can be used in all cases—except where there
is heart disease—and that the use of mesmerism as an
anesthetic is limited to a comparatively small number of
patients, who can by its means be rendered absolutely in¬
sensible to pain, therefore, as some of them express them¬
selves, “ there is no further use for mesmerism now we have
got chloroform.” They have completely ignored the fact that
numbers of their professional brethren have recorded cases of
almost every form of disease cured or greatly relieved by
means of mesmerism, and that if people would only devote a
portion of their spare time to the practice of what, without
exaggeration, may be called 11 the medicine of nature,” the
same success would undoubtedly attend their labours.
Many ingenious, but perhaps not ingenuous people, are
accustomed to assert that all that is true in Spiritualism is
nothing else than mesmerism, and it is really quite surpris¬
ing to find the number of individuals who avow their belief
in the latter, when they wish to depreciate the claims of the
former science. They are in the habit of exclaiming u Oh!
we always believed in mesmerismbut it is to be suspected
that, in former days, when the hostility to mesmerism was
almost as bitter and unscrupulous as it is to-day against
Spiritualism, that at least some of these soi-disant believers
were amongst the most active of its opponents.
Tottenham.
THE SECRET OF SECULARISM.
BY J. T. MARKLEY.
The Bradlaughites not seldom sit in judgment upon the
spiritually inclined, and define the non-materialist belief
with dogmatism. Why should we not “ turn the tables”
upon the too confident atheists ? Anyway, we have a
psychological advantage in our comparative study of charac¬
ter; and modern secularism is a tempting theme for the
thoughtful and impartial student. Let us not confound the
aggressive infidelity of Mr. Bradlaugh, Chas. Watts, Harriet
Law, Annie Besant, and other brilliant platform prophets
with the reverent, half-religious scientific materialism of
Professor Tyndall, Herbert Spencer, Harriet Martineau, and
the highly refined semi-Pantheistic school of thought, of
which intellectual society is warmly proud, and from whose
cold and beautiful isolation of belief “ men of faith” never
receive a vulgar insult.
Secularism, as popularly understood, is an image-breaking
crusade, moving with almost savage haste. Scientific
materialism is a slow denial of cherished creeds, mellowed
with refined religious tenderness, inspired by the contagious
awfulness of gradually unfolding truth. Secularism is an
eloquent, impassioned appeal to the incautious, half-informed
city crowd. All the olden ideas of God-worship are too
quickly repudiated with horse-play argument, amid the
intensified creedal hatreds of the great unwashed. Thus
Bradlaughism, as a popular faith, becomes as suddenly a
firm prejudice as the most inveterate of the fossilised sects.
On the other hand, Tyndallism and the moral cultus of the
higher Positivists appeal to the deeper mind-agonies of
natural emotion in all persons of spiritmlle temperament.
They may not formally declare, or admit, the holy presence of
a God. But verily this poetic form of experimental and
reflective materialism deduces a grand unblooded religion
from a profound study of all the phenomenal activities of
nature. Sentiments the most hallowed arise from such in¬
vestigation, even when the creedalists are in slumber; and
a passion as prayerful as the emotion which moved Keble
and the ascetic Churchman, compels an everlasting love of
humanity and goodness ; and, perchance, a solemn pause for
the welcome approach of historic Deity. This may be called
salvation without a Calvary; albeit that the scientific
materialists, too cruelly, request the theologians to ring in a
new Christ. The Tyndallites scorn tradition, and refer to
rocks, trees, oceans, stars, creeping ferns, and stormy sun¬
sets as intelligent chapters in the only Bible to which they
make reference. Yet, as truth-seekers, even the poetic
materialists, at times, unconsciously concede the position
Spiritualism professes to have established by tangible evi-
I! dence; and we seem to hear reverent sceptics cheerfully
I; whisper :—
There is a land no mortal map hath noted,
Lying remote—a sunset Land of Ease,
Whereto the voyager is softly floated
i Across Lethean seas.
It is a region over whose existence
The shades of doubt and disbelief are cast;
A realm that lies obscure by night and distance,
Y ague—visionary—vast.
But secularism, as interpreted by its iconoclastic advocates,
I knows and cares little for this tender feeling of hopeful
j emotion. Its most refined, eloquent, and appreciative modern
prophetess, Mrs. Annie Besant, through an unavoidable con-
i tact with shouting artisan crowds, seems to have abandoned
j for a time those individual traits of spirituelle inspiration
I which were the possible accompaniment of earlier intellec-
| tual training. Her thoughts too suddenly contrast. The
| fervent “ amen ” of so fine a woman to most of the maxims
of Charles Bradlaugh, proves that, in rare cases, the most
brilliant minds are capable of following a leader whose words
are dramatically sustained with a bold mesmeric emphasis.
Now, in finally pointing out the psychological “secret” of
the secularist temperament and propaganda, let me repro¬
duce a representative remark from Mr. Bradlaugh. The pas¬
sage is from the National Reformer of August 8th, 1875.
Reviewing a book of verse, the editor says:—“ We do not
know enough of poesy to criticise even an ordinary poem ;
and transcendental poetry is out of our latitude altogether.
Mr. Sinclair has, here and there, some very fine lines, and
we look at them curiously, as we might do at rare jewellery.
The setting is often weird; but perhaps some one who gets
the book will understand it better than we do.” In this
confession lies the hidden psychical secret of secularism.
The reviewer is no mean scholar; and his masculine oratory
has already become historic. But, like the majority of secu¬
larists, he lacks the emotional and imaginative faculty; or,
rather, the stern reasoning and combative sentiments are
abnormally developed at the expense of the humbler and
affectionate attributes of domestic character. He would
| make an excellent Spiritualist, in so far as his naturally
I positive temperament would prove a counterbalancing check
| to the over credulity of his brethren at seance experiments;
j but being by nature and cultivation unpoetic, he would
| frighten the ghosts, rather than be frightened by them him-
j self. In fact, secularism is chiefly a matter of temperament.
| The affections are too much ignored. The glamour of art
| fails in its beautiful imaginative softness of appeal to melt
! the exclusive reasoner. Poetry and the pathos of religious
j music approach timidly your stern, unemotional thinker.
I The Niobes of Spiritualism exist not, or but rarely, among
| the secularists. Hard, cast-iron, unrelieved facts, and a dis¬
regard for the romance of history and the religions, consti¬
tute popular infidelity. The contagious affection and poetic
intuitions of the non-materialists are pointed at by the Secu¬
larists as a sign of lunar inspiration. Each party—and they
| are difficult to classify—diverges towards the extreme most
in harmony with the individual temperament; and personal
training assists circumstantial association to complete the
unfortunate contrast. That there are noble thinkers and
workers in Secularism, I must readily admit; but this does
not explain away the psychological doctrine of the tempera-
| ments.
In thus analysing the non-spiritual disposition and train-
I ing of the average Atheist, the writer of this article would
! not unfairly contrast individual temperaments, honestly-
| held beliefs, or organised systems of intelligent opinion.
| Many Secularists are men and women of superior character.
| The negations upon which they build an indefinite creed
may, in many cases, be excused as a manly protest against
I the orthodox sourness of a God-slandering theology. Not a
\ few of the anti-Christian writers and speakers are estimable
people. They do much good as critics of the established
and inflexible programmes of cut and dried thought. Herein
I is their majesty and their might. But, psychologically con-
| sidered, they lack through natural and acquired cultivation,
affectionate, poetical, and emotional tenderness. With the
intellectual and social intrepidity of the French Revolution
they find themselves in almost sympathetic accord. With
- 1 • the conservative romance and easy spirituality of the Lake-
124
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 14,1877.
poets or the High Church divines, they—the Spiritualists—
find little in common. In fact, the sterner mental faculties
are too severely developed at the expense of the domestic
emotions, albeit that our infidel brethren are mostly good
examples in the performance of the duties of parentage,
wifehood, and the usual family ties. But the imagination
is too much neglected; dry facts become the only indis¬
pensable current mental ballast. It is true that Voltaire,
Gibbon, and the great literary free-thinkers revelled in a
warm, glowing eloquence, and sometimes in exemplary
tenderness of written appeal; and the style of Mrs. Besant
and other leading Secularists recalls the mellow richness of
an Indian summer, so alluring is it, and so refined. But if
you want promptness of sympathy with, and a tender
affection for the glamour of history, the poetry of legends,
the preachments of ruins, the sweet madness of music, or
the marvels and mystery of the olden religions, you must
inquire of the cultured, Bible-loving devotee, or the more
enlightened modern Spiritualist. The Secularist, to all
seeming, is chiefly out of sympathy with those quick
spiritual intuitions which underlie, and have for centuries
controlled the romance, the failings, and the wonderful sway
of the great Christian Churches in all lands. Therefore, we
offer no studied insult to those who fail to discern things
affectionately as well as intellectually, where the two worlds
meet and whisper a dreamy alliance.
Peterborough,
NOTES FROM LAKE GEORGE.
Under the above heading a correspondent of The Presby¬
terian gives an account of the last sickness and the: burial
service of the late Robert Dale Owen, from which we make
the following extracts :—
On the eastern shore of Lake George, about two miles from
the Fort William Henry Hotel and five minutes’ walk from
Crosbyside, is the residence of the late Robert Dale Owen.
It is a sequestered spot, approached by the lake on one side,
and by a circuitous walk among the woods on the other,
almost invisible to the passer-by, withal commanding a clear
outlook upon the magnificent panorama before and around
it—such a retreat as commends itself to the true lover of
nature, such a home as the poet, and the one weary of the
bustle and strife of life would love. Here it was that he
wrote the fascinating papers of his autobiography, which he
did not live to finish, though Scribner has in hand the three
last chapters written by him, to be published in due time.
Here it was he spent the last year of his mortal life; here he
passed from the dreams of life to the realities of the eternal
world. Though infirm from feeble health for some time, he
was not sick in bed more than one week. He suffered great
physical anguish, but endured it without a murmur of com¬
plaint.; His mind was clear to the last, making arrange¬
ments for his funeral, and looking forward with strong hope
to the great future. When he died he had been married to
the lady to whom his autobiography is dedicated just one
year and two days. Mr. Huntington, of the Presbyterian
Church of Caldwell, had performed the ceremony, and when
speaking of his funeral, Mr. Owen remarked, “ Mr. Hunting-
ton married me, and may as well bury me; ’tis true we do
not think alike on all theological points, but we worship the
same God, and hope to live in the same heaven.” So a few
days ago, after the arrival of his two sons and daughter from
their far distant Western homes, the simple funeral services
were held in this beautiful cottage-home upon the lake. Only
twenty or thirty neighbours were present, and the services
were conducted by Mr. Huntington, assisted by another
Presbyterian minister. Two hymns were sung, one of them
beginning with the line, “ Guide me, oh, Thou Great
Jehovah,” was declared to be Mr. Owen’s special favourite.
The procession moved slowly round the head of the lake, to
the western side, back to the village of Caldwell, and the
remains were deposited in the quiet little burying-ground. It
was an impressive occasion ; everything in accord with the
simplicity of the character of the man. It was a scene for
an artist. As the casket was being lowered into the grave
we looked up to take in a glimpse of the surroundings. In
the company were persons representing various conditions of
life. Here was a believer, there an infidel, yonder several
Christian neighbours, and beyond these a group of Indians,
watching with wonder every movement. The beautiful lake
stretched out before us in full view; upon its bosom was the
new steamer coming rapidly towards us, the sun gilded the
tops of the distant mountains, and its light reflected from a
thousand wavelets. From the grave you can see his former
home; from his home you can behold some of the most
pleasing aspects of nature; from nature, as she is here re¬
vealed, you may, if pure in heart, see God !
SPIRITUALISM IN BRIGHTON.
The Brighton Daily Post thus reports Mr. W. J. Colville’s trance
lecture in Brighton last week :—
Last night Mr. W. J. Colville, a Spiritualistic medium, gave
an impromptu address at the Town Hall, Brighton, entitled, “ Of
what Practical Use is Spiritualism ? ” The subject of the address
was suggested by one of the audience. Mr, W. M, Gill took the
chair.
Mr. Colville, at the commencement of his lecture, said there were
results produced by Spiritualism which were of benefit to the indi¬
vidual man and to men collectively. Objections were raised to the
phenomena of Spiritualism on the ground of their being trivial and un¬
important. The vast majority of humanity who had not carefully and
calmly investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism did not in reality
know what they were. If they thought them to be mere table-tilting,
and that there were no higher results to be obtained than the moving
of visible objects without physical contact, or human beings lifted in the
air, and if all the knowledge they could gain by investigation into
modern Spiritualism was simply that which they could gain through
observing these phenomena and nothing more, then undoubtedly Spirit
ualism would be unworthy of their research, and would be of little or
no practical good to humanity at all. But they contended that Spirit¬
ualism was something grander, and if they were to have a revelation
beneficial to all, they must have one adapted to the needs and interests
of each one, and therefore they wanted ostensible proofs to convince
those who would not believe without. Granted that the physical
means used in Spiritualism were trivial, the results attained were not
so, and whatever means were used, provided they were not sinful, were
justifiable, provided that the results were of paramount benefit to
humanity. Such results were obtained through the physical mani-
festations connected with modern Spiritualism, and they would lead
them to search further into what constituted the mysterious force;
therefore they would say that, however small and apparently unim¬
portant the means used, the importance of the results attained was
such that the means should not be termed small or trivial. Every
new truth was always opposed, and every new revelation was always
scouted. Spiritualism was taught in the Bible, and spiritual gifts were
promised by Jesus Christ to all who believed. All those who calmly
investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism had found them worthy of
their investigation. From whatever standpoint they regarded Spirit¬
ualism it was worthy their investigation. If it were humbug and de¬
lusion, was it not for them to expose it, and thereby render an incal¬
culable service to humanity ? Therefore it was the duty of every one
to investigate modern Spiritualism, and prove whether it was beneficial
or the reverse. There was, undoubtedly, a counterfeit Spiritualism
which was imposture, but there were thousands of intelligent persons
who had investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism and found them
true. Thousands had been converted to a knowledge of the immor¬
tality of the soul through the means of modern Spiritualism, and if
through the motion of physical objects any man could be convinced of
the immortality of the soul, then the phenomena were of practical use
to humanity, because they were the means of making men lead better
lives on earth.
After the address, Mr. Colville answered a number of questions on
the subject, and delivered an impromptu poem, entitled, “ The Father¬
hood of God, and the Brotherhood of Man,” which was loudly ap¬
plauded. The proceedings then came to an end.
Investioatoes into Spiritualism residing in or about the neighbour¬
hood of Hackney, Clapton, Dalston, Kingsland, and Stamford Hill,
would do well to join the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism, whose new premises are conveniently situated for those localities.
Full particulars of the advantages of membership of the Association will
be supplied on application to the honorary secretary, by letter or other¬
wise, at the rooms, 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane, London, E.
The Last Illness or One of the Davenpoet Brothers.—It ap¬
pears from the Banner of Light that William H. Davenport lies utterly
prostrated and worn down at Sidney, New South Wales (whither he
went from New Zealand), awaiting the coming of the angel of release,
whom men call death. His physicians have given up all hope in his case,
and warn him that any attempt on his part to make the journey back to
the United States would result in his decease in transitu. He has been
a medium for the past twenty-three years. In company with his brother
Ira, under the name and style of the “Davenport Brothers,” or
“ Boys,” they have traversed nearly every quarter of the globe; Europe,
the East and West Indies, South America, Australia, New Zealand,
and other widely separated points being marked on the chart of their
wanderings, while there is scarcely a town of any size in the United
States where they have not given practical witness of the gifts they
\>Q$$$M$<X*'—B.eligio-Philosophical Journal.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
125
Sept. 14, 1877.
EMPLOYMENT FOR WOMEN. j
A letteb written by a Spiritualist to the Freeman's Journal (Dublin) |
says:— |
“ Helen ’’ asks if any of your correspondents have ever sought work I
for themselves. I have, and step by step, as “Helen” herself, tried j
first one thing then another. Even my articles to newspapers (for which j
I have received a good sum abroad), at home are, like “Helen’s,” i j
“ declined with thanks.” A young lady who lived with me twelve j
years ago, a ward of a leading merchant in this city, did also as I j
“ Helen ” did—she left no avenue untried before crossing the Atlantic, j |
She was a first-class pianist. The money I was paid for her board I | j
spent in her lessons by professors in singing and piano. Her capacity j !
for teaching was unquestionable in these branches. She played the j ] |
piano exquisitely and brilliantly. She could get no remunerative em- I j i
ployment—the crowd of teachers at ridiculous pay was pitiable. Coming 111
home one day to me, her eyes swollen with tears, she declared she j j
would make one woman less in Ireland, as she found so many in heart- j j I
rending need for daily bread. The teachers are in as sorrowful a state i 11
as the 500 workers “ Helen ” quotes. The girl I speak of was an i j j
orphan, left in the care of her guardian, her fortune dependent on her 11 j
pleasing him (not herself) in a hxisband, and she is now earning, not a jjj
fortune to be sure, but a good living by her musical talent in America, j j j
She not only maintains herself, but two children and a mother-in-law, j j 1
her husband being a poor man, not gifted with a heavy load of brains or |) |
push. Had she remained in Ireland, under the same circumstances, she j j
would be in the poorhouse. | j
The respected editor of tins paper surprised me greatly last week by I
a leader on “Emigration,” the sum and substance of which was, jjl
“ Work as hard at home and you might get on as well.’’ He was very j i
severe on Miss Rye and her proteges (of whom I know abosolutely 1) j
nothing); but what I do know, from actual and personal experience of j j
the United States, California, and Peru, is summed up in a short l)j
sentence, “ It is absolutely one’s own fault if you cannot get on and m
make a fair competence in these countries, always supposing you are a j !
woman with good health and fair intelligence, and that you do not i i
carry out with you a crushing share of our ‘ Irish ’ pride and immense j j |
gentility.” If eleven years’ experience of life abroad be any use, it is i !
freely at the service of struggling Irish ladies, who are oppressed with j |
brain power here for which they can obtain no market. And as it seems j)!
impossible to dislodge half the men from the paying positions in woman’s i j
work, why, give up complaining (a sign of weakness ever). Parents j |
with girls doing the genteel role, barely making ends meet in a shabby .. It
little way, go abroad; “ girls ” without providers here go abroad; families j j
with ambition go abroad; but I say, Don’t go abroad without first j
putting the tombstone over intemperance, laziness, thriftlessness, and j
fine notions. With a great belief in early rising and cold water, a hand
ready to help, a heart true to truth and friendship, a spirit clear of j
doing conscious wrong, ever ready to shut off the valve on slander and
gossip, you will reach a goal in fairer climates of which this over-popu- j
lated country is incapable. I
INTERFERENCE WITH LIBERTY OF OPINION. i
The following remarks are from a recent number of the Daily Tele- ) |
graph:— i
A somewhat singular case of obtaining money by false pretences has j
been decided by the magistrates of South Molton, in North Devonshire. I
There lives, it seems, in the neighbourhood of Barnstaple, an old man j
aged 80. His name is Harper, he calls himself an herbalist, and he is I
known—regardless of the proprieties of gender—as the “ White Witch.”
His practice is to apply to the body of his patients various rods of
metal marked with the names of the different planets. An old woman j \
named Elizabeth Saunders, the wife of a labourer in the neighbour- j j
hood, had been ill for many days, and doctors had been unable to j j
afford her relief. Her husband sent for Mr. Harper, and the “ Witch,’’ j j j
having felt the patient’s pulse, remarking that he was only a humble j j
instrument in the hands of God, and assuring her that he did not know ] |
whether he could do her any good or not, applied his metallic rods to i I
her body, first asking her age, and making a sort of rude attempt to j j
cast her horoscope. The old woman died, and Mr. Harper was charged i j
before the magistrates with using certain subtle crafts, means, and i |
devices, by palmistry or otherwise, to deceive and impose upon her !
Majesty’s subjects. In the course of the evidence it was stated that he |
demanded 25s. for his services, that he stayed in the house five hours, |
and that he had a glass of rum-and-water and some biscuits. Such I
was the case for the prosecution. For the defence witnesses were ji
called who alleged that Mr. Harper, by the use of his metallic rods, j)
had cured them of rheumatism and of divers other aches and pains, j
while it was also urged that, at the outside, he was a mesmerist, and i j
that mesmerism was, if not an orthodox, at any rate a recognised pro- j)
cess of the medical profession. The magistrates thought otherwise, and ij
have sentenced the old man to a month’s imprisonment. Under the ij i
statute it may very well be that the sentence is justifiable. Notice, I
however, of appeal to the Quarter Sessions has been given, and the case j
will doubtless cause as much excitement and interest in the neighbour- j
hood as did the Slade affair in London. It may be that “white j
witches,” such as Harper, are mischievous persons, who deserve to be
punished. At the same time it is a serious question how far an old jj
statute ought to be revived for the sake of repressing practices which it ) j
was never intended to prohibit. It may also reasonably be urged that j!
the application to the body of a patient of metal rods marked with the j j
signs of the zodiac and the planetary symbols can hardly be called a j !
subtle craft, means, or device ; and that people who believe in such ] i j
appliances in lieu of medical treatment, and who submit to them of j j
their free will, can hardly claim that they have been imposed upon, ill
Harper may be and, no doubt, is a quack, but it ought also to be borne
in mind that his patients seem to have sought him out willingly, and
that, on the grounds on which he has been convicted, it might be pos¬
sible to convict homceopathists, hydropathists, the gentlemen who
manage total abstinence hospitals, and a vast number of other practi¬
tioners whose views on medical treatment have the peculiarity of dif¬
fering, more or less, from those recognised by the Royal College of Phy¬
sicians.
WHAT CHANG WAU HO SAYS.
While in California I visited a joss-house, or, rather, a heathen
church. In it were several ugly idols. These idols were all gaudily
painted. They were made of paper puffed out with wire. Some of
them had many eyes, several hands, and now and then one had a
double head. They had eyes in their knees, eyes in their stomachs, and
eyes in the tops of their heads. Some had hands all around them, and
all had long fierce-looking beards. A little child in our party was too
frightened to look at these idols. She kept saying—
“ Oh, mamma, it is so ugly ! Take it away! ”
The heathen priest was a very clever man. I found afterward that
he had been a great reader. In this joss house he stood in front of the
gods with his people, and they all worshipped and prayed together.
They were thoroughly in earnest, and I believe every Chinaman
believed his eternal salvation depended on his worship.
I found the priest Chang Wau Ho, I say, to be a man of great
learning. After the service I went in behind the gods with a young
interpreter—a young Chinese graduate from Yale, and had a long talk
with him.
“I see you have many gods?” I commenced.
“No,” he replied, through the interpreter, “we only worship one
God.”
“ Then these are idols,” I remarked.
“ No, the Chinese do not worship idols. These are images to repre¬
sent God—one God. We have many images, so that all the people can
see at once, but each image represents the same God.”
v Then you do not worship the images 1 ”
“Oh, no. They are only to remind us of God. You Christians
pray before the crucifix, and the Catholics even have an image of Christ
and the Virgin Mary, just as we have these images. We do not
worship the images.”
“ Why do you have such ugly, deformed images? ” I asked. “Why
do they have double heads, many ears, and many eyes l ”
“Well, God, you know, is omniscient, potential, and omnipresent.
We represent these attributes by the images. The many hands denote
that God is omnipresent. The many eyes denote that He is omniscient
—that He sees everything.”
“ But why do you make such ugly-looking images? ” I asked.
“ Oh ! that is the Chinese antique. They are not ugly to us. They
made them so in the time of Confucius, and our people don’t like to
change. It is our religious form. I see you Christians preserve
religious forms, too. You have religious architecture—the Gothic.
You have stiff angels after Fra Angelico, and angels quite deformed,
after Sassaferato and the old religious artists. Why can’t we China¬
men preserve our antique religious art, even if it is ugly, as well as
you? ”
I found Chang Wau Ho, the Chinese priest, very radical. He
defended himself and his faith splendidly. Sometimes he was dread¬
fully irreligious, and often, to me, sacrilegious. Once he replied—
“Heathen ! who do you call heathen ? To me,” he said, “everyone
is a heathen who does not believe in our religion.”
“ Do you believe in religion, Wau Ho ? ”
“ Yes, he said, “ we are all alike. We all have the same God. We
all pray to Him the same—the Chinaman, Turk, Englishman, and
South American. He is the same God all over the world, only each
nation spells His name differently. We call Him Joss ; the Hindoos
call Him Bramola; the Greeks call Him Theos ; the Italian, Deus ; the
American Indian, Great Spirit; the Frenchmen, Dieu; the German,
Gott; the American, God ; and so on. Every nation has the same
God, only they spell it different. The same God in twenty-six different
nations has the same attributes—omniscience, omnipresence, poten¬
tiality. Every nation prays to Him the same. You and I, though you
call me a heathen, worship the same God. We believe precisely alike,
except when we come to the prophets, and then all the nations
disagree.”—New York Times.
Mr. W. J. Colville will deliver inspirational trance discourses and
poems at the ordinary weekly stance of the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism, to be held at the rooms, 53, Sigdon-road,
Dais ton-lane, London, E., on Thursday evening next, at eight o’clock.
Members will be admitted on payment, and visitors by tickets, obtain¬
able from members or from the honorary secretary prior to date of the
seance.
A Seance at Dalston.—Mr. J. William Fletcher favoured the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism with a visit on Thurs¬
day evening last week for the benefit of the Association. The attend¬
ance of members and visitors was numerous. In the absence of the
president and vice-president, Mr. Thos. Blyton was elected circle president
for the evening, and Mr. Fletcher having been introduced with a few
brief remarks as to observance of certain necessary conditions, the seance
opened with an interesting and instructive trance discourse through his
mediumship. Then a number of communications of a more or less pri¬
vate family nature were made to some of the members and visitors pre¬
sent, several of whom at the close of the siance expressed their satisfac¬
tion at the nature of the communications made to them. A cordial vote
of thanks to Mr. Fletcher for his welcome visit was proposed by Mr, E,
Newton, seconded by Mr. G. R. Tapp, and carried unanimously.
126
SPifttTt7ALXS$.
Sept. 14, 1877*
SLATE -WEITING PHENOMENA UNDER TEST CONDITIONS.
Slate- writing manifestations are becoming common in
America, and will, doubtless, be as frequent here before long,
therebygivinga-severelesson to those of the public who have
been duped by untrustworthy assertions that such phenomena
are not real. The Banner of Light (Boston) of August 25th
says:—
Mr. Charles E. Watkins, of Cleveland, Ohio, the slate¬
writing medium, is taxed to the utmost by eager applicants.
.... The phenomena unmistakably occur under conditions
that preclude the possibility of fraud on his part, and that
indicate spiritual origin. On Friday Mr. Watkins gave a
test of slate-writing upon the public platform. Two slates
were purchased on the ground of H. A. Buddington, were
kept in the possession of Dr. Beals, the president, and by
him carried to the platform. A committee, consisting of
Eben Ripley, of Leverett (Spiritualist), Gen. D. B. Wiley,
of the Boston Custom House, and F. L. Sargent, of Temple¬
ton (the two latter sceptics), were called from the audience.
The medium put a grain of pencil between the slates, which
were then laid together and held by the committee and the
medium. Soon the scratch of a pencil was heard, and on
taking the slates apart a message of fifty words was found
on one of them, the committee affirming the impossibility of
any substitution of slates, or of chemical writing.
On Sunday, Mr. Timayenis, a native of Greece, and pro¬
fessor of Greek in the Collegiate Institute, Springfield, called
upon Mr. Watkins, and received upon a double slate, locked,
what he testifies to publicly as follows:—
Mr. Watkins has written in the original Greek, with modern
Greek letters, the name of my grandfather. He has besides written
for me, in Greek, three lines. The words were correctly spelled, the
accents or breathings were correctly placed.
(Signed) T. T, Timayenis.
THE LATE ROBERT DALE OWEN.
The following is a verbatim copy of a communication re¬
ceived through the mediumship of Mrs. Nettie C. Maynard,
of White Plains, N.Y., from an influence purporting to be
the late Robert Dale Owen. It was given July 25th, in
presence of S. R. Fanshaw, of Morrisania, N.Y.: “I appre¬
hend that the columns ever open to me while I was on earth,
will as freely open to me now that I come to declare the
reality of that life in a world I was led to believe in through
observation and the teachings of modern Spiritualism.
To the outside world I have nothing to say at present, but
to my many old and true friends I have much to communi¬
cate. On leaving my worn-out body, I found myself in the
presence of a large company, from whom I seemed to have
parted but yesterday, so natural were their unforgotten faces,
so real and firm their hand clasp of welcome. I pass over
my meeting with the loved members of my family who had
reached this beautiful home before me, saying only to those
still on earth, I found them all, and, thank God, they are
still my own! Among the first of old-time workers to meet
me with the olden warm clasp of friendship was our good
brother, Wm. White, late associate publisher of the Banner
of Light; and I need not assure those on earth who knew
him that he is still true and devoted to the work of putting
the proofs of the truth of spirit-communion before the
people. I will not use the time so generously given me by
naming the many who came to renew our olden friendship,
but pass on to say that my anticipations of the spirits’ home
were more than realised. I have no language to express its
beauty, no power to convey a knowledge of my realisation of
joy and peace in this “ Land o’ the Lealbut, while unable
to give more at this time than the truth here recorded, I
would assure my wife and family that I am conscious of and
grateful for the tender care that gave my mortal life a
peaceful close. For the many kind words written and said
of me since, my entrance into spirit-life, my thanks are
due; but it is mainly to correct a misstatement concern¬
ing me that I write this letter. It has already been
corrected by my kind friend Dr. Crowell, and it will be
gratifying to him to receive this assurance from me in
this public manner. I refer to the statement that I “re-.,
canted” my “ belief in Spiritualism before my death,”
jjj This statement is untrue. On the contrary, my belief and
| | trust never faltered, but lighted the “dark valley” with a
j | glory that never faded from my otherwise dimming vision
| j until “ faith was lost insight,” and belief became a living
I | reality. I find I can still work here for the truth so dear
| | to me j and rest assured, Mr. Editor, I shall not be an idler
| | in the vineyard. As I become accustomed to my new life,
| l and find I can impart any knowledge here obtained that
I j will benefit my fellow man on earth, I shall as fearlessly
I | give it utterance, if I find opportunity, as I was free to give
| | my views in the old life. Fervently thanking God that I
| I am thus permitted to declare my immortality, it but re-
j mains for me to ask that you kindly give this imperfect
| ; letter room in your columns.—Banner of Light.
| THE DEATH OF THOMAS DE QUINOEY.
| In the course of a book on Thomas de Quinceg, His Life
| | and Writings, with Unpublished Correspondence, by H. A.
I | Page (John Hogg and Co., 1877), the following statement
| I by Miss De Quincey is quoted:—“ My sister at once pulled
| I off the heavy blankets, and wrapped a light shawl round his
j I feet. 1 Is that better ? ’ she asked. ‘ Yes, my love, much
j | better; I am better in every way—I feel much better. You
| | know, these are the feet that Jesus washed.’ As the night
wore on, our kind friend, Dr. Warburton Begbie, came and
sat with us as my father’s life slowly ebbed away. Twice
only was the heavy breathing interrupted by words. He had
for hours ceased to recognise any of us, but we heard him
murmur, though quite distinctly, ‘ My dear, dear mother,
j then I was greatly mistaken.’ Then, as the waves of death
| rolled faster and faster over him, suddenly out of the abyss
| we saw him throw up his arms, which to the last retained
j their strength, and say distinctly, as if in great surprise,
| i Sister! sister! sister! ’ The loud breathing became slower
I I and slower, and as the world of Edinburgh awoke to busy
j I work and life, all that was mortal of my father fell asleep
| I for ever.”—(Yol. II., p. 305.)
j J Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten is now lecturing in San Francisco,
j | Mr. C. E. Williams, the medium, has visited Mr. and Mrs. De Yeh,
j j i at Interlaken, Switzerland, where they had some excellent seances. He
! h is now in Holland, but will resume his seances in London next week.
)! Professor Denton says that mesmerism, psychometry, and Spirit-
/ j ualism within the last fifty years have shed a flood of light upon the
(I nature of man, and almost infinitely enlarged our ideas of his possibili-
[ j ties. What men in their ignorance attributed to the gods and heaven-
II created angels, we have learned are accomplished by human beings in
| and out of the body.
/1 Authority in Religion.—Not any seer, and not any theologian,
(| and not any mortal man or immortal spirit is the spokesman for the
)j Unspeakable One. The creature who says to you that you must be-
< | lieve what he says about God and a future life or be damned, is a
(I fanatic, a blasphemer, and a pretender. Some truths he may speak,
/ j but this is not a truth. The responding faculty in your own reason
(j and your own heart which whispers, “ This is divine—this is true,” is
(i the only oracle to whose mandates you can accord a rightful obedience,
j j —Epes Sargent.
> I The Work of the Spirit-World.—The spirit-world endeavours to
11 lead the mind above sectarian tenets and ideas ; to free the soul from
j | the chains which sectarianism has forged and bound it with. When
> i this is done, then we are freed from the chains of humanity upon us, but
c I so long as mankind seek to enslave their fellow men, so long will the
y i spirit world contend for the right. The growing tendency among men
j | to analyse that which is claimed to be from the Infinite, proves how far
11 we have succeeded in awakening the world to a sense of the position in
(| which they are placed. But the field is large, and the labourers are
> | few. A few faithful souls are to be found who love the truth, and de-
(| spise the false and untrue.—Theodore Parker in the “ Voice of AngelsP
| i Trying his own Specific.—“ A.” writes from Great George-street,
< i Westminster, under date of Friday.—“ In the Times last week I read
y! of the cures effected on some of the pilgrims to Lourdes, and of nuns
) j given up by the doctors for consumption afterwards chanting the ‘ Mag-
(j nificat.’ I read again that a telegram from Lourdes to the Univers
y i says :—‘ The national pilgrimage leaves Lourdes after witnessing twenty
} | attested miracles.’ In the Times of Thursday I also read * that the
y i Pope’s physician, Dr. Cesarelli, has been telegraphed for on account of
| j an aggravation of the malady from which His Holiness suffers, through
11 which the swelling in the legs has now increased to such an extent as to
y i prevent his being moved.’- My suggestion is that either the Pope should
) I be taken to Lourdes, or Lourdes brought to the Pope. It is a pity that
(1 a dignitary of such importance should remain in such suffering and
y | merely receive the secular treatment of a physician when he might so
) I easily be cured by the spiritual treatment so easily obtained at Lourdes,”
(j ’—Times, Aug. 37th.
Supt. M 1877.
THE SPIK1TUALIST.
127
NEW BOOKS. |H
A few weeks before Christmas, a work suitable for a gift- | !
book will be published at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch j j
Office, containing some collected choice inspirational and j j
normal poetical and prose writings by Spiritualists, or given |||
through mediums. The selections will deal chiefly with the j j
religious aspects of Spiritualism, and some of the best gems j |
of Spiritual literature will be republished in the book, the j j
chief object of which will be to furnish a practical answer to | j
the common but unfounded assertion that all spirit messages j j
are rubbish. The work will be elegantly bound and gilt, j j
that it may be suitable for presentation as a gift-book at j |
Christmas. | |
The second edition of Professor Gregory’s Animal Mag- j j
netism has been out for some weeks, and for good quality in | j
every way, is an earnest of our intention of introducing first- ! j
class books into Spiritualism. j j
Mr. Harrison found himself unable to complete this season j j
his large work, in two volumes, on Spiritualism, but in a j j
fortnight will issue some of his collected comic and serious !
poems and prose essays, under the title of The Lazy Lays. |
They are intended for general circulation, and contain nothing j
about Spiritualism. This work will be most handsomely j
bound and gilt, to serve as a gift-book. Some of the poems j
—for instance The Angel of Silence, and The Converted j |
Carman—have appeared in these pages. j j
The first two volumes of The Spiritualist will shortly be |
issued, bound in one, as the second volume contains but jl
few numbers. The pages of The Spiritualist were at that jj
time about the size of those of The Illustrated London News, j I
well printed on thick paper, and as the journal was at first j |
issued fortnightly, the two volumes will contain historical | |
records relating to the movement extending over a period of j j
three years, and many articles of exceptional historical value | j
by well-known writers. This large book will be issued | |
strongly bound in half-calf; very few copies of it will be III
obtainable: indeed, there will probably be too few to meet I !
the demand. The price will be twenty-five shillings each, ||
and copies will be issued in the rotation in which the orders I j
come in. In future years those only will possess complete j j
sets of The Spiritualist who now obtain the two first volumes, | j
which, as time goes on, are likely to rise considerably in j j
price, as the first volume of the Spiritual Magazine has done, j j
Mr. O’Sullivan suggests, in another column, the desira- ! |
bility of the publication of a book on the important subject If
of Spirit Identity, enough good cases being quoted, with jj
names and addresses attached, to prove the point. Unques- Jjj
tionably, such a book would greatly promote the public 111
interests of Spiritualism, and, to bring Mr. O’Sullivan’s sug- j j
gestion to a practical issue, we are willing to collect the | j
materials, and to bring out such a book, if some of the j j
expenses are guaranteed, by not less than 250 copies at 7s. 6d. j j
each being ordered before the work is commenced. This j i
number will not be readily reached by means of orders for Jj
single copies only. The book would be got up somewhat in j
the style of Professor Gregory’s Animal Magnetism. We j
have all along foreseen that, in time, strong contention must |
arise over the 11 identity ” question, and that by means of a j
small minority of spirit messages, now large in number in j
the aggregate, the evidence in favour of identity in excep- j
tional cases is overwhelmingly strong. To facilitate the col- |
lection of such cases when the time for so doing should |
arrive, we have headed them a Spirit Identity” in these j
pages for the last eight years.
Mr. J. J. Morse, the medium, intends to devote a portion of his time j
to practical phrenology. • U
Spiritualism in South Africa,—Mr. T. Berks Hutchinson writes j
from Cape Town, August 20th, 1877 :—“ The Spiritual movement is in |
a healthy state here, but we have no good medium; We have proved |
to the general public that the phenomena are true; thus the first point j
has been gained.” Some of the Cape Town newspapers sent us by the [|
last mail are irate that Spiritualism is spreading in spite of their oppo- |j
sition to it. j
Mr. J. W. Colville is now giving trance addresses at the Rooms of j
the National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, j
London, every Saturday afternoon at four o’clock. Members, and i!
friends introduced by them, are admitted on making a small payment. !>
The seances are interesting, and questions put by the listeners are u
answered through the organism of the medium while he is under in- j
finance. 1
MEDIUMS TESTED BY EGOTISTICAL PHYSICISTS.
Jo Cose tells of a sceptic who subjected a medium to the following
“test conditions”:—
A plaster made of gutta percha and beeswax was placed over her
mouth; a bandage of six handkerchiefs was put over her eyes, tied
at the back and sealed, and her ears were filled with, cotton wool
soaked in mucilage. Both hands were filled with flour. One of them
was fastened to the top of her head with fine cambric thread; the
other was firmly bound to her side with tarred rope. Her feet were
secured to a block of oak wood twelve inches long, eight wide, and
three thick, with a strongly-riveted, hardened steel chain. She was
then completely enveloped with forty-two yards of cotton drilling,
which was sewed at every crevice with a patent noiseless, double
back action sewing-machine.. After that she was put in a strong
coffee-bag, which was tied at its mouth with three hundred yards of
shoe-thread. The bag was then put in a chest, and the chest lid
fastened with six padlocks, every key different, and rendered doubly
secure by strips of leather glued upon the outside lengthways, breadth¬
ways, and sideways. It was then suspended by wires in a copper-
fastened cabinet lined with corrugated sheet iron, and the cabinet de¬
posited on a high shelf in a recess of the stone wall of a room that
had been unoccupied for twenty years. In the front of this recess
was drawn a gauze screen, which was glued, tacked, sealed with red
wax, and marked with a No. 1 Faber lead pencil belonging to the
sceptic, which he knew to be free from fraud, and which he brought
with him so that he might be protected at all points from deception.
A number of the sceptic’s friends were posted in various places to
prevent collusion between the medium and confederates. One was in
the back area, concealed behind an ash barrel; one stood at each
window, one sat on the top of the chimney, and one held his hand
over the keyhole of the front door. Thus all things were ready, and
the careful investigator took a position where the least indication
of imposition could be instantly detected. He held one hand
ready to grasp the medium should she walk out and assume the guise of
an angel, and with the other he held a note-book, in which to record in
detail the last “ great exposure of Spiritualism.” Suddenly a strong
unseen hand clinched as a vice his outstretched digit. The note-book
took to itself wings and flew away. Voices were heard; half-a-dozen
forms as natural as life walked around him, and one whom he after¬
wards admitted to be “ a pretty good imitation of his mother ” came and
laid a hand on his head. These vanished. Then up he rose to the
ceiling, till with his nose he could write his name on the plaster; then
down to the floor, with double the speed he went up. A broad hand,
which he could not see, dealt him a rather smart blow on one side of
his face, then on the other. Some power then stood him on his feet and
marched him around the room at a speed which “ Goldsmith Maid ”
never thought of attaining, and the perspiration poured from every
pore until he was as wet as a No. 1 mackerel in the home of its child¬
hood. But all this did not convince him. He went home declaring
that the medium did it all; that he should prosecute her for assault and
battery (with intent to kill), and that she ought to be indicted for
“ obtaining money under false pretences.” His wife wrote to a friend
the day following, relating the circumstances, and added, “ I don’t think
my dear, kind husband would believe even if one rose from the dead.”—
Banner of Light.
A new edition of Miss Theobald’s useful pamphlet, “ Spiritualism in
the Bible Compared with Modern Spiritualism,” has just been issued.
The Baron and Baroness von Vay left London for Paris early last
Tuesday morning. During their visit to this country they spent most of
their time with relatives in Ireland. This being the middle of the dead
season, when many Spiritualists and some of the mediums are out of
town, the opportunities for observing the spiritual phenomena, so pre¬
valent in London at other times, were not numerous.
Speculation and Straps.—A Brooklyn painter named Boyce has not
been happy in his domestic relations. His wife charges him with strap¬
ping her over the shoulders till they are black and blue, and in his
defence he excuses himself for his unkindness on tbe ground that she is
a Spiritualist, who never will let him alone, but nags him incessantly
about the Summer-land, the sixth zone, and the visions of Mr. A. J.
Davis, the great seer of Orange. Mr. Boyce is not a Spiritualist; to
him the Summer-land is as naught, and when spoken to on the subject
of materialisation he wags his strap and says “ Aha 1” and soon resorts
to ulterior measures. Disclosures in court have made it evident that he
is a base materialist, with a sensitive but not aspiring nature.—N. I\
Daily World, Aug. 2.
The National Association of Spiritualists.—Last Tuesday night, at
the ordinary monthly meeting of the Council of the National Association
of Spiritualists, Mr. Alexander Calder, president, occupied the chair.
The other members present were the Rev. W. W. Newbould, Mr. Morell
Theobald, Mr. St. George Stock, M.A., Mrs. Lowe, Mrs. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, Miss Houghton, Herr Christian Reimers, Mr. Cornelius
Pearson, Mr. R. Pearce. The report of the Finance Committee, read
by Mr. Morell Theobold, showed a balance in hand of .£46 14s. lid.;
it recommended payments to the 'amount of £22 5s. 5d., and esti¬
mated the outstanding liabilities of the Association at £5. Presents to the
Association were acknowledged with thanks from the Baroness von Vay,
Capt. James, the Rev. W. Whitear, Mr. Reimers, and Mr. H. Lacroix.
Mr. E. T. Bennett moved, and Miss Houghton seconded, that the
monthly agenda of the Association be continued for three months, on
condition that Mr. Bennett paid the expenses.' This was agreed to on
the understanding that the Council in accepting Mr. Bennett’s liberal
offer should not be considered morally bound to continue it at the expi¬
ration of the three months. A vote of thanks was then awarded to Mr.
Bennett, and the proceedings closed.
128
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 14:, 1877,
A WISH.
When the last moan’is made,
When I to rest am laid,
And finish’d is the tale of earthly sorrow ;
0 friends give thanks for me,
That my life’s history
Will not unfold a page upon the morrow.
Thanks, in that I, no more
Need cast an eye before,
To pierce those mists, that fill’d my soul with ruth ;
Thanks, that I’ve reach’d the goal,
Where every tired soul
Has ceas’d its wanderings in the quest of truth.
Peace now for heart, and brain ;
No more with steadfast pain
To seek for anchorage on things below;
No more to waste the years,
In bootless hopes, and fears,
And ceaseless mental wrestlings to and fro.
Peace to the troubled soul!
No further need of dole,
The last of earthly debts is duly paid ;
Let no stone leave a trace,
To mark the resting-place
Of one whose memory had better fade.
 |  B. M. P. G.
(KoTOsponnence.
IQreat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned;
copies should he kept by the writers.]
ASTROLOGY.—“ PROSPERO’s ” PREDICTION IN THE “ PALL MALL GAZETTE.”
Sir,—I have rarely seen anything at once so inaccurate, and, for his
purpose, so singularly unfortunate, as the reference of your corre¬
spondent “ Life Beyond the Grave” to the above prediction, which is
to be found in The Spiritualist of July 27th, copied from the Pall Mall
Gazette.
Your correspondent says “It is only a few weeks since an astrologist,
signing himself * Prospero,’ predicted terrible disasters to the Russian
troops about the 12th of August last, but we do not find that anything of
importance happened at that time.” Just compare this with “Pros-
pero’s own words.” After noting the planetary conjunction for the 13th
Aug., and the rule of application, he says, “ This rule would make Mars
signify Russia, and Venus Turkey, but the evil prognostics are so fairly
balanced that it is impossible to assign a decisive advantage to either. The
aspects of Mercury and the Moon to Venus, however, may indicate advan¬
tage in the way of travel or of communication, which would be consistent
with the cutting off the communications of the enemy, as by the rupture
of the Danube bridge, or by a strategic movement. On the other hand,
the evil position of Mars in the fourth house is such as to lead one to
anticipate trouble to the assailants of fortifications, ditches, or strong¬
holds If we find obstinate and sanguinary battles to ensue next
month, with no remarkable advantage to either party, although the balance
of evil is against the invader, call me “Prospero.” The italics are
mine. The letter is dated July 13 th, and I think any one who has fol¬
lowed the course of the war in the newspaper, and who also remembers
what was the popular estimate of the relative strength and prospects of
the belligerents early in July last will agree that a more singular coinci¬
dence of prediction and fulfilment “ Prospero ” himself could hardly
desire. Sanguinary battles might of course be anticipated, but that
there would be no reasonable advantage to either party, while assaults
on fortified positions would be usually unsuccessful, and that the balance
of evil—during August remember—would be against the invader, and
that communications would be endangered by strategic movements, are
really statements that summarise the events of the war during last
month, and could hardly have been foreseen by sagacity unaided by
science. Indeed, I have been hoping to see a further communication
from “ Prospero” in the Pall Mall Gazette, calling attention to this most
remarkable evidence of the value of astrology. Your correspondent must
have taken lessons in accuracy of statement and in treatment of evidence
from Dr. Carpenter. C. C. M.
9th Sept. —■ ■■ ■
Sir,—In reply to your correspondent “Life Beyond the Grave,” I
can only say that my knowledge of professional astrologers—those who
take fees and can be consulted by the public generally—is limited, but
from what I have heard, some of them are very unreliable, and, in fact,
“ set up ” for prophets before they have learnt their business. However, j
I have seen nativities calculated by the gentleman who has assumed the |
title of “ Raphael,” and stepped into the shoes of the deceased author of |j
that name. I believe he will be found accurate. Communications may b
be addressed to him at Mr. Millard’s, 79, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, i1
I think your correspondent is hardly fair in the remarks anent (
“Prospero,” whose predictions in the Pall Mall Gazette were repro- I'
duced in your columns. On referring to The Spiritualist containing his !'
letter, I there find it distinctly stated, as the summing-up—“If we find !,
obstinate and sanguinary battles to ensue next month with no remark- i
able advantages to either party, although the balance of evil is against
the invader, call me ‘ Prospero.’ ” This letter bears date July 13, 1877,
and the horoscope was cast for noon on the 13th of August. If this
prediction was not fulfilled, I have not read the daily papers. The 1
fighting in the Shipka Pass commenced just as the “portentious com¬
bination ” occurred, and for the whole of the month the fighting con- j
tinued. A leader writer in a morning paper of the 29th August, says,
“ The fighting in the Shipka Pass has now continued a week, and has
grown to the dimensions of a great battle. . *. . Enough has been done
to make this struggle in the Shipka Pass the most obstinate of any
hitherto maintained in the present campaign.” Elsewhere in the
same journal {Daily News) a correspondent from Poredin telegraphing
on the identical day of the evil culmination, says, “ To-day news has
arrived that the Turks are driving the Russians back on the road to
Tirnova.” In the same paper is recorded the great Turkish success at
Kuruk Dara, in Asia, where a sanguinary battle was fought. It will be
noticed that in no case was there a thorough defeat—nothing in the
nature of a rout. I need not dwell on this matter further beyond stating
that though knowing nothing of “ Prospero,” I must admit his pre¬
diction to have been exceedingly correct.
I think your correspondent gives me credit for admitting more than I
am inclined to do, on the subject of prayer. It is put thus—“prayer
can modify the destiny which astrological science marks out for us, a
fact which should afford immense consolation to a man with an evil
destiny.” I thought in my previous letter I allowed the efficacy of
prayer only in the case of mediumistic persons. If the man with the
evil destiny did not happen to be mediumistic, then his prayers would
be thrown away. Besides, lie would constantly be praying without
knowing exactly what he was aiming at, and I don’t think that we have
many instances on record of prayers being answered constantly in favour
of the same supplicant. But perhaps I am prejudiced. I have heard
the parson praying for rain too often, when the stars gave an adverse
aspect, to be very enthusiastic in any belief as to the efficacy of prayer.
As your correspondent seems to take some interest in astrology, allow me
to suggest the advisableness of purchasing a few books and giving
the subject a little attention. All these misconceptions need not then
occur.
Your other contributor “ P,” asks whether a child born at the same
time as the First Napoleon, in the next room, but of poor parents, and
afterwards brought up among peasants, would simply, owing to the
planetary constellation at the time of birth, become the equal of the
Napoleon in military talents. “ This is what I infer,” says the writer,
and accordingly he won’t waste time in the study of the science, which
is “ still more ridiculous when physiology is brought to bear upon it.”
How perversely wrong people will go! "Why should “ P ” infer any¬
thing of the kind ? What astrology does teach is that the two children
would be started in the world together with exactly similar good and
evil influences to affect them through life; that in all the ups and downs of
earthly existence they would both be benefited, and both be afflicted at
the same time; that when one was in the hey-day of prosperity, though
he were a king, the other, though of less degree, would likewise revel in
the smile of fortune. If the boy in the next room had been (let us say)
taken over to England immediately after birth, brought up under
military tuition, and then in later years placed at the head of a British
force to face Napoleon, it would seem to me that on neither would such
a measure of success descend as would injuriously affect the other—or
else the malignant planets would destroy the hopes of both. It is highly
improbable that such an event would happen, but granting its possi¬
bility I see nothing to prevent its resulting in the way I have shadowed
forth. In the astrological records there is, however, as the lawyers
term it, a case in point. On the 4th of June, 1738, King George III.
was born. On the same day, at nearly the same minute, in the same
parish of St. Martin’s-in-the-Fields, one Samuel Hemmings came into
being. He was apprenticed to an ironmonger, and afterwards grew
prosperous in trade, commencing business when his majesty came to the
throne. On the 8th of September, 1761, he was married, on the same
day as the king; and finally, after other events of his life had resembled
those which happened to the king, he died on Saturday, the 29th of
January, 1820, on the same day and at nearly the same hour as his
Majesty. I do not quite understand how astrology can look ridiculous
in the light of physiology. I am not altogether unacquainted with the
last-named science. Perhaps “ P” will be good enough to explain, and
in the meantime refrain from drawing inferences which his limited ex¬
perience does not justify. Aldebaran.
Sir,—I think “ Aldebaran ” has written tolerably correctly respecting
astrology. The planet Saturn was in mid-heaven at my own birth,
and my life has been greatly chequered with vicissitudes, disappoint¬
ments and losses. Even now I fear poverty in my last4days, unless my
kind spirit friends can serve me. "W. X.
September 8th, 1877.   
spirit identity.
Sir,—For the benefit of those who are desirous of accumulating tests,
not only of the genuineness of materialisation phenomena, but also of
the separate individuality and continued identity, at various times and
places, of the controls who manifest, I should like to mention that at our
private seance the other evening I was gratified by hearing and distinctly
recognising the voice of “ Peter ” (who attended at our circle on this
occasion, quite unexpectedly to any of the sitters, in response to an
invitation from our controls, to assist them in the development of the
direct voice), as identically the same as that which I heard at a seance in
London on the evening of the 13th June, when Mr. Herne was present,
and on which occasion Peter conversed with us for some time.
Every one who has heard the voice will remember its thin, high-
pitched, piping, almost indescribably peculiar tone, distinguishable from
all others.
Our medium has not been in London for many years, and, to my
absolute knowledge, has never been in the way of hearing the voice.
To me the test is most valuable and complete, for at present I can
perceive no other interpretation of the facts than that Peter is the sepa¬
rate and altogether independent individuality he represents himself to be,
A. J, Smart,
Cardiff.
Sept. 14, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
129
IDEALISM AND MATERIALISM. |
Sir,—It is very natural, and therefore very common, for persons to j j
suppose that those who differ from them in opinion on any question jjj
must be either ignorant or stupid. And here we find our Mr. Massey j j i
writing about the “ so-called scientific materialism, which, in its meta- j j!
physical ignorance,” &c., Mr. Massey himself being an idealist, but of j jj
what exact shade or colour I do not know. He is welcome to his j j
opinions, whatever they may be; but, surely, it is going a little too far I) i
to charge with metaphysical ignorance such men as Professor Tyndall, ! j
Clifford, Huxley, Herbert Spencer,Bain, Lewes, Carpenter, and Owen ; jj
men who are content to accept facts in the order in which they find j) j
them; and they find that there is a sensitive substance first and as the | j j
essential basis of sensation. jj
But if it is affirmed that there is nothing else but sensation, then j) j
isolation is the consequence, and we are really and truly ” Of such stuff i j I
as dreams are made of, and our little life rounded with a sleep.” The I j I
only way to deal with idealism is to show its inconsistency and ! j j
absurdity, as Hume did, or press on further to absolute nihilism and j j j
negation. Metaphysical speculation never led to anything of value, j
except in the pleasure of the speculation itself, much as we hunt the fox t (j
just for the pleasure of excitement. Idealists mostly refer to colour, i j j
rather than to form, weight, density, number, and durability. A sensa- j j
tion has no permanence; the earth has. If life, in one sense, is a j j
dream, as Shakespeare puts it, he has given the other side, the real j j j
source and nature of things, in those famous lines in the Timon of j j j
Athena, beginning, “Common mother thou,” &c. (matter). Milton, H
again—“ One first matter alland it will hardly be said that Shake- j j j
speare and Milton were ignoramuses, or that Bacon did not understand j j!
the sceptical argument, although on it he would not waste time, and j j j
open fruitless questions. What we want is a more correct analysis of j j
perception and its illusions. Henry G. Atkinson, F.Gr.S. i j
Boulogne, France. ———- ; j {
AN ALLEGED EX-MEDIUM WHO HAS SEEN THE ERROR OF HIS WAYS. jj j
Sir,—Dr. Lynn being inEdinboro’, I was pressed by a gentleman to H j
accompany him to see the performance by the so-called “ ex-medium who j j j
had seen the error of his ways,” to use the lecturer’s expression, and to jj i
judge for ourselves between jugglery and mediumship.
j Dr. Lynn requested some Spiritualists, if there were any present, to ! j
examine the cabinet and secure his medium. No one making a move, jjj
my friend at the back of me urged me to go, seeing which Dr. Lynn jjj
suggested that he did not wish for any one under thirty years of age, he j j
wanted experienced persons. I saw in a moment that he did not want ft ;
me, so up I jumped and informed him and the audience that I was j j
thirty-five years of age, and having had some experience with mediums, j j
I wished to see and take part in the securing his man. Dr. Lynn at jjj
once said that he should not have thought I was over thirty, but he j j
would take my word for it, and putting the best grace on the matter j j j
possible, added that I was just the man he wanted. No other Spirit- j j
ualist coming forward, Dr. Lynn eventually induced several of the j j
audience to mount the platform. ij j
Now for the tying. The ex-medium, as he was called, produced a jjj
piece of stout silk braid—(which will slide easily)—about three-quarters j j
of a yard long, and Dr. Lynn had two pieces of rope about the same ij j
length. The black silk braid had a knot at each end. “ Now,” said jj
Dr. Lynn, “ tie that round his wrist! Tie it hard ! I do not mind if jjj
you stop the circulation,” so a gentleman worked hard at one wrist, j j
Now, “You tie a knot! and you! and you!” said the Dr., and during I j
the clatter he was making, and the different individuals each tying a jjj
knot, the ex-medium deliberately facilitated business by gently tying jjj
the other wrist himself, and seating himself in the chair, his arm of jjj
course behind him, and over the back of the chair. “ Now, gentlemen,” j j j
said Dr. Lynn, “ Tie his legs securely with these ropes. Don’t be j j
afraid.” I objected. I said that his medium’s arms were not secure, i j j
and that there were at least six inches of tie between each wrist; I jjj
wanted it more securely done. “Oh! doit! doit!” said he; but of jjj
course, I could not get the medium to move an inch. After much more j j i
talk on Dr. Lynn’s part about my wasting time, he appealed to the j j j
audience. I appealed also. I said that I wanted the medium to ijj
stand up, as I desired to tie his wrists close together back to back. ! j
Dr. Lynn coolly told the audience that it was impossible for a man j j j
to be put in that position, whereupon I turned my back to the audi- j j j
ence and showed them what I wanted. “Do it! do it!” said he, jjj
but, of course, the ex-medium would not stir from the chair. Dr. jj
Lynn then coolly asked if the audience knew me, and he submitted j
that I was wasting their time, which statement was received with a j J
few hisses. He appealed again to them, saying that the medium’s j l
arms were secured, and it only remained for the gentlemen to use that j j j
strong cord and secure his legs. I told the audience I was satisfied that j j j
the medium was not secured at all, and that could I fill his hands with j j j
flour and tie him up with strong thread, it would be fifty times more j j j
secure. Whereupon Dr. Lynn said that he thought that if I wanted to jjj
get up an entertainment on my own account, I was at liberty to do so, jjj
but should not waste their time. Of course I did no more. I retired i j j
from the stage, the curtains of the cabinet were drawn, and the medium, j j j
whose arms are not tied to the chair, and who with one hand easily j j j
undid the tie on the other, stood up, put his hands over the curtains, j j
sat down, and the farce is supposed to be an imitation of spiritual mani- j j j
festations. jj I
Later on Dr. Lynn borrowed handkerchiefs, and the medium’s arms jjj
were tied to the chair, and the tie of the wrists was also secured by a j j j
handkerchief to a back rail; but what was the use of that when one j j j
wrist was six inches from the other, and easily undone, and the ends of jjj
the handkerchief which tied the arms were left in close proximity to the j j j
medium’s mouth. Only let Mr. Serjeant Cox secure him with the jjj
handcuffs he put on Everett, and tie him properly to the chair, and we jjj
shall have no more Spiritualists calling it the result of mediumship. i
I can assure you, Mr. Editor, that in the Newcastle Society of Spirit¬
ualists there are one or two amateur conjurers who would (and have
done it) put in the shade all that Lynn’s performance included. I have
seen mediums secured in all imaginable ways. I have over and over
again taken part in tying them myself. I have read in The Spiritualist
the different means taken to secure other mediums, but among them all
I never saw such a sorry affair as that at Dr. Lynn’s the other evening.
Of course it is only due to him to say that he uttered no abuse of Spirit¬
ualism. I wanted to secure his medium my way, he, of course, did not
like it. I am satisfied, and if I am as a Spiritualist expected to accept
the manifestations of that evening as mediumship, then mediumship
also produced the globe of water and fishes from the empty cloth.
J. T. Rhodes.
26, Albert-street, Leith-walk, Edinboro’.
MATERIALISATION OF SPIRIT HEADS.—NO. 11.
Sir,—September 9.—I have little worth writing to you this week,
but yet, as my further stay in Paris will be short, I. note for you two
or three things, though of no great importance.
On the 6th Colonel X (mentioned in my last) was present, and
a veiled figure appeared at the middle opening of the curtains, just in
front of him. Evidently a young woman. Her arms (bare) and hands
were extended towards him, and one hand rested on his head. She
appeared for but a few moments ; perhaps half a minute. In the
dark he received various soft caresses about his head. As shown by
other evidences, what they call “ the power ” was weak. The veil
(contrary to what is usual) was not so transparent as to allow any idea
of the face behind it. We were afterwards told (by John King) that
her face could not get formed so as to show it to him, but he hoped it
would to-morrow.
The next day (7th) Colonel X returned, and brought a photo¬
graph of her, that we too might judge of resemblance. But nothing
took place. “ No power? Whether this veiled figure was his wife,
“ Adrienne,” or not, we cannot do more than conjecture. He has not
since attended, having been summoned compulsorily away from Paris
for a few days.
On the 7th, after having thought myself quite cured of my suffering
in the back, and having even arrived at Firman’s in entire comfort, I
got suddenly attacked there with a violent revived pain, so that I
could scarcely either lie, recline, or sit. I was conscious at the time
that (after feeling quite well and restored) I had made a sudden move¬
ment to one side in my chair, which gave me an instantaneous sharp
stab of pain at the weak point—a sort of crick, or strain—which
brought back, and in a persistent way, all the suffering which I had
thought to have quite departed. It was with great effort and pain that
I went in to take my seat in the seance room, which I did only in the
hope that I should there again receive the relief, as before, of the
mesmerisation by the kind invisible spirit physician. And there I
sat suffering acutely.
I have told above how the form purporting to be that of Mrs.
X could only show, thickly veiled, for a few minutes, and how
there was “ no power.” After waiting some time, I thought I was
not going to get mesmerised. The familiar hand did, however, at last
begin the attempt, but evidently had no force to continue it. It
raised me up (as before described) twice from my chair, then thrust
me back into it. It then began the manipulation on my spinal column,
at the top, near the neck, moving downward, but had scarcely got a
fourth of the distance down towards the seat of pain, when it ceased,
and there was nothing more. After a few minutes further of waiting—
I expecting the mesmerising to be resumed—we were dismissed by
John King saying that there was “ no power,” and giving us his usual
farewell. I was afterwards, by writing, told to go home and stay
there by a good fire, or it would become worse, and to wear the mes¬
merised paper (see my last letter). After half an hour on a sofa I ex¬
perienced considerable relief, and managed to drive home.
The next day (8th) I was much better, and was able to go to a seance,
which proved to be absolutely null. The day was rainy, and the
“ atmosphere ” so bad that we had not even the sound of John King’s
voice. Only, he afterwards wrote to me calling me a “ madman ” for
having come out—telling me to go home immediately and stay there by
the fire, and threatening me with consequences if I did not “ obey
orders? Now “ obeying orders ” isnot my forte. I acted with reason¬
able judgment in attending to some business outside, and took care of
myself indoors, without the commanded fire, but wearing the mes¬
merised paper ; and to-day (9th) I have a mere trifle of pain left,
scarcely more than a sensation, and attended the seance in spite of the
scolding I expected for it. Here is certainly a very curious phenomenon,
which I have now experienced on three different occasions of illness and
suffering—the first two several months apart, the present after the
lapse of more than a year. The spirit operating in the way before
described is certainly not John King, because the latter is sometimes
speaking inside the cabinet, while the other (purporting, and believed to
be Glaucus) is manipulating me outside. And it was very curious how
he was unable to keep up the muscular operation, on a day when “ the
power ’’ was weak, after having begun it with the evident purpose of
continuing it down to the affected part—just as we have on various
occasions witnessed the sudden failure of the power in the stoppage of
John King’s voice, sometimes in the middle of a sentence. \Ve have
sometimes, too, observed his voice vary greatly in strength and fulness
at the same seance. To-day, for instance, it dropped into a faint distant
sound, without interruption of what he was saying. I said, in a
whispered aside to the Count, “ Observe the great change in his voice.”
He presently asked, rather sharply, “ What teas that you said? ” I
told him; adding that he knew I always liked to notice the small
details of phenomena, as tending to throw light on this strange thing—
materialisation. “ Tes,” he answered, “ J could not keep my voice up.
130
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 14, 1877.
Didn't you notice, too, how soon my light faded out ? ” And such had
been the case. He told me to put a glass of water on the table to¬
morrow, and Glaucus would mesmerise it for me.
August IQth.—I am afraid it will be some time before we get further
moulds. John King said to-day he thought we had better wait till
colder weather. Good materialisations of Nathalie and Alexandrine.
The tumbler of water was taken from the table into the cabinet. John
King presently said, “ Somebody is putting something into it. He is
poisoning it. Won't you be afraid to drink it ? ” “ Oh, no, it is divine
poison.” “Anyhow, you can't accuse him, for you can't identify him."
‘‘My gratitude identifies him well enough.” Presently the glass was
placed on the musical box in front of me. “ Drink it at once." And
so I did. “ You haven't left any for me. But I did take a little before
I gave it to you." There was no difference in the taste.
The Count received yesterday from M. Boyard, of Brussels (see my
last letter), a spirit photograph taken by M. Boyard himself, in the
presence of Dr.,'Slade. It was not, as these photographs generally are,
a picture of Slade with a spirit form near him. Dr. Slade did not pose
at all. It presents simply the picture of a child, rather vapoury, but
with distinct and pleasant features. It was taken on M. Boyard’s own
plate, and by himself alone. I will prompt him to send you a copy.
This is an incontestably genuine spirit photograph.
 — J. L. O’Sullivan.
THE REAL IDENTITY OF SPIRITS.
Sir,—In the excellent paper by Mr. Stainton-Moses in your number
of last week (Aug. 31st), he deals with the subject of the real identity of
the spirits communicating with us, with the departed relatives or friends
they profess to be. He says that he has about a hundred cases recorded
going far to establish a “ moral certainty ” of that real identity, difficult
as it confessedly is to establish it with perfect conclusiveness of “ proof.”
It is impossible to prove, beyond the same “ moral certainty,” the
existence of God. How can the finite “ prove ” the infinite ? Hair-
splitters and wood-thrashers can make out that nothing is, or can be
proved, outside of mathematics. But I will not stray into that field of
discussion, for fear of having the metaphysicians down on me. I only
desire to suggest that the most valuable and the most welcome book that
could now come to enrich the already splendid literature of Spiritualism
will be one devoted to the sole object of collecting the cases of good
evidence of the real identity. This would be a book wholly narrative,
and mainly of compilation from volumes, magazines, and newspapers
already printed. Public invitation would also attract the statements
of numbers of cases never yet published. The cases supported with
names, dates, and particulars would, of course, be the most valuable.
But a second category of cases might be included, in which the Editor
could vouch for the facts certified to him, confidentially, by trustworthy
parties, whom various motives entitled to respect might restrain from
venturing into the blaze of publicity. I wish I had the possession of
the materials and the time to devote to such a compilation. Mr.
Stainton-Moses would no doubt contribute his hundred cases. I could
contribute one, but a very good one, if I could overcome the considera¬
tions which have hitherto prevented me from printing it, though often
doubting whether I was not weakly shrinking from a duty. One does
not like to pin one’s heart upon one’s sleeve for daws to peck at. There
are some things too sacred to be laid open to the scoffs of coarse hosti¬
lity. Anyhow, I will at least leave the narrative in manuscript to be
printed after my—death, as we call it. I will only say about it now,
that I had known of the phenomena of Spiritualism for over a year,
and knew it to be a reality and a truth. But I was conscious (as are
so many Spiritualists) of the weakness of the evidence of real identity.
Mesmeric rapport—thought-reading—invention of invisible spirits (very
conceivable) other than those which had been incarnate in fleshly
humanity—hitherto unsuspected psychic forces or faculties in ourselves
—in all or some of these there seemed a possibility of explanation
of the incontestable phenomena. At the same time I recognised that
the simple and straightforward Spiritualist theory was in itself a very
credible and reasonable one; and that once granted (what could not be
honestly denied), the existence of intelligent invisible beings about us, it
was at least as easy to believe them to be what they all professed to be,
and what they went far towards proving themselves to be by their know¬
ledge of particulars which would naturally be in the knowledge of our
disembodied relatives and friends, as to believe them to be all “ ele¬
mentary ” impostors. And yet so recalcitrant against evidence is the
prepossessed and adverse human mind (and mine was both), that I !
never accepted with fulness of “moral certainty” the fact of real
identity until the experience came to me to which I refer. And it came
to me through that fine (rapping) medium Mary Marshall, whose
eclipse, total as it unfortunately appears, is a great loss to Spiritualism
in England. I will not now give the particulars, I have often narrated
them orally and confidentially to a worthy listener, and all have evi¬
dently been deeply interested in them. I will only say that they in¬
volve, necessarily, conclusive evidence that the spirit communicating
with me (my mother—that point I may mention)
1. Knew a matter the most secret and the most sacred, connected with
the occasion of her own death-bed.
2. That though the main central fact given was within my own know¬
ledge, and so far might have been presumed to have been taken out of,
or reflected from, my own mind, yet there were so many points quite at
variance with—quite opposite—what I was expecting, and what was in
my mind and wish—that the evidence was demonstrative that the com¬
munications were no reflections from my brain or my knowledge.
3. That there was an extraordinary manifestation of a peculiar trait
of temperament, which had characterised her in the life of the flesh, in
a very remarkable degree, well known to all her family and friends, and
which still attached to her in the spirit life (a phenomenon familiar to j
experienced Spiritualists). , , . . > :
The combination of these three things (and whenever it is printed it will
1 be found to be perfect),which took me entirely by surprise, was, I submit,
conclusive of the real identity. And from that time dates my full and
entire and vital conversion to Spiritualism. No one to whom I have
ever narrated it has ever hesitated to admit that such a personal experi¬
ence must make any man a Spiritualist. And once thus made a Spirit¬
ualist, what can any man thenceforth care whether for present unpopu¬
larity, or sacrifice of material interests, or for the scoff of ignorant in¬
credulity, whether unlearned or scientific—-honest ignorance, or base
and disloyal ignoring.
For honest ignorance and consequent incredulity, I have more than
tolerance, more than indulgence, sincere respect. Did not I pass
through the same state and phase of mind ? And was not I more and
longer recalcitrant ? did not I more and longer “ kick against the
pricks ” than I ought to have done ? But if it is lawful for us to despise
anybody (which I do not think is lawful, any more than to call any
man, Baka, thou fool), it can only be those who from the pride, and
vanity, and self-interest of priestcraft, whether theological or scientific,
wilfully ignore a truth so grand and so momentous to all humanity. I
am not sure but that that is the mysterious “ sin against the Holy
Ghost.”
And to return to that which was the object with which I started, I
repeat that I do hope that some capable person will undertake the
volume above suggested. W. H. Harrison could do it, or Stainton-
Moses, or, better still, the two in collaboration; or, better still, those
two in collaboration with some American writer, more familiar with the
American records of the facts—say Epes Sargent, Emma Hardinge
Britten, or Dr. Crowell (and there are others). Such a book would be
invaluable, and just at this time; for after all the pearl of great price in
Spiritualism is its demonstration of the immortality of the soul, through
our continued communion with the spirits of those we have known in the
flesh, under circumstances and conditions which establish their real
identity. J. L. O’Sullivan.
2, Rue Solferino, Paris.  
THE PARLIAMENTARY LUNACY LAW COMMITTEE.
Sir,—Will you kindly insert the following letter and a few com¬
ments from me thereupon:—
House of Commons, Tuesday, 3rd July, 1877.
Madam, — I am directed by the Select Committee on Lunacy Law to
inform you that when the committee entertained the idea of calling you again
before them, it was before the evidence furnished by your own pamphlets and
letters had convinced them you had been under insane delusions. The pro¬
duction of these documents has, in fact, altered the case. The committee un¬
derstand that you now wish to raise the question whether a person who was the
author of these pamphlets ought not to be considered of sound mind. This
is, in their opinion, entirely foreign to the purpose for which they were ap¬
pointed, and therefore, not wishing to express any opinion on your present
state, they consider that they would not be justified in reopening this ques¬
tion, and that they must consider your case as closed.—Your obedient servant,
C. E. Austen Leigh.
Now, sir, I will remark first that what is here styled “ entertaining
the idea of recalling me ” was a formal and official concession by Mr.
Stephen Cave, chairman of the committee, of my demand for a re¬
hearing in order to refute various allegations against my character and
sanity made by the various doctors who had respectively certified me
a lunatic, and been my jailors. As these gentlemen’s evidence was
taken publicly, and so got into the papers, and since I, as a married
woman, cannot prosecute for libel, I felt then, and feel now, that my
claim to be heard in defence was imperative. That a committee of the
House of Commons should have disallowed that claim—more especially
when by so doing they also disallowed the act of their chairman, and
that right hon. gentleman should have continued to preside over a
body that had thus repudiated his engagement—can only be taken as
proofs of the prejudice, I might almost say virulent hatred, enter¬
tained by our rulers against Spiritualism and its emancipating
doctrines. Of the documents alluded to by Mr. Austen Leigh, I
only put in two pamphlets, which have long been before the public,
and certainly contain no trace of insanity, unless the abstract
belief in “ Passive Writing ” be accounted such. What other
papers may have been put in by others without my cog¬
nisance, I cannot tell, having twice applied to the committee for
copies, or, at any rate, for a description of these “documents,” and had
my request ignored. They are probably some mediumistic trash, such
as is so common in the earlier stages of development, as writings of that
description were in my possession under lock and key before my incar¬
ceration, and were surreptitiously abstracted in my absence. I mention
this circumstance specially as a warning to passive writers dwelling
among anti-Spiritualists not to allow inferior mediumistic communica¬
tions to subsist even for a day, since such, by being represented as
the passive writer’s “ delusions,” may at any time be made available
in shelving the medium as a lunatic. It is now more than ever certain
that no medium or even Spiritualist so shelved will ever be released by
superior authority. In 1871 the Lunacy Commissioners gave forth
their ever memorable judgment—“All Spiritualists are mad.” Since
then Dr. Forbes Winslow’s pamphlet, declaring that “ all who see or
talk with a spirit should be taken care of by their friends,” has
appeared, and been, I believe, endorsed by a large portion of the medical
profession; and now this most dangerous doctrine has been further
recognised and acted on in my case by a Select Committee of the House
of Commons. Happily that committee has dissolved without making
any report, and there is yet time before its probable reappointment next
session to take such action as may prevent the report being injurious to
Spiritualism. Mr. Austen Leigh’s letter, given above, is official, and
therefore affords sufficient ground for action. I would suggest that all
the associations of Spiritualists throughout Britain should severally be
invited to memorialise the Home Secretary for a judicial inquiry into
the question which the Select Committee has declared not to be of its
Sept. 14, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
131
cognizance, viz., “Whether a person who was the author of certain
pamphlets ought not to be considered of sound mind.” How the com¬
mittee can hold this to be “ quite foreign to the purpose for which they
were appointed ” is perplexing enough. They were appointed expressly
“to inquire into the operation of the Lunacy Laws as regards the
security of personal liberty,” and certainly to the unofficial mind nothing
would seem more cognate to that end than the inquiry whether a certain
“ supposed lunatic ” was really insane when incarcerated or not. But
the fact is that the Select Committee, in inquiring into “ cases” at all,
undertook what it had not the means of doing satisfactorily. No
evidence is taken before it on oath, nor is any tested by cross-examina¬
tion deserving the name. It is clearly impossible for a committee of
the House of Commons to elicit truth where conflicting statements are
made. Any further inquiry should be strictly a judicial one, wherein
the usual laws of evidence would be rigorously observed. That such
an inquiry would result in so far establishing the reality of passive
writing and other Spiritualistic phenomena as to check persecution in
mad-houses, and prosecutions in law courts on account of them, I cannot
doubt. Louisa Lowe, Hon. Sec.
of the Lunacy Law Reform Association,
64, Berners-street, W., August 10th, 1877.
SPIRITUALISM IN BIRMINGHAM. |U
Sir,—Miss Keeves and Miss Record, of London, have kindly pro- 11 j
mised to give some stances in Birmingham. The arrangements are as I (j
follows:— 11 j
Mr. Gray’s, 71, Pershore-road, Sept. 16, at 7 p.m. |(|
Mr. Perks’, 312, Bridge-street, West, Sept. 17, at 8 p.m. prompt.
Mr. Groom’s, 166, St. Yincent-street, Lady wood, Sept. 18 at 8 p.m. i|!
Mr. Sunderland’s, photographers, Bull-street, Sept. 19, at 8 p.m. || I
By inserting this notice in your next issue, you will greatly oblige j i
C. W. Anderson. I/!
60, Bristol-street, Birmingham, Sept. 11, 1877. ] (|
AUTOMATIC WRITING AND SPIRIT-RAPPING IN THE | j
SEVENTEENTH CENTURY. | |
It cannot but be interesting to the readers of these pages j j
to trace the historical continuity of those manifestations of I
spirit which are specially characteristic of its recent activity. j|
Spirit-rapping and automatic writing are popularly supposed I
to be modern forms of fraud and delusion ; the appropriate !
treatment of the first, a prison ; of the second, a madhouse, j
I have therefore translated some passages from the autobio- I
graphy of Madame Guyon, published at Cologne in 1720, in j |
which that saintly mystic records her own experience of these || i
phenomena. It is of course natural that she should, accord- j j
ing to the ideas of her age and of her life, attribute them to j j
Divine or to demoniac agency. We are only concerned with I
the facts. j j
“ Thou hast done me the favour, my God, to put my affairs j j
in a very great order, and so, that I was myself surprised by j i
it, and by the letters which Thou causedst me to write, in | |
which I had scarcely any other part than the movements of j j
the hand ; and it was at that time that it was given me | |
to write by the spirit and not by my mind, a thing which I j j
had not before experienced. Moreover, my style of writing j j
was altogether changed, and people were astonished at the j j
facility with which I wrote. I was not myself at all as- If
tonished at it, but that which was vouchsafed to me then j j
as a trial has been given to me since with much greater | |
force and perfection, as I shall presently relate. Thou j j
commenced by taking from me the power of writing j I
humanly.”—(P. 2.) | j
4(As soon as I commenced reading the Sacred Scripture, i
it was given me to write the passage that I read, and im- ] j
mediately afterwards the explanation of it was given me. I
In writing the passage, I had not the least thought about |
the explanation; and as soon as it was written, it was given |
me to explain it, writing with an inconceivable rapidity, j
Before writing I knew not what I was going to write; in |
writing I saw that I was writing things which I had never j
known; and during the manifestation the intelligence was j
given me that there were in me treasures of science and know- j
ledge which I had not been conscious of possessing. Had I |
written ? I did not remember what it was that I had written, |
and neither an idea nor image of it remained to me. .... |[;
Thou madest me to write so much at dictation* (avec tant de j
pureU) that I was obliged to cease and to resume as Thou j
didst will. Thou triedst me in all ways; suddenly Thou j
madest me to write, then immediately to cease, and then !
to resume. When I wrote in the daytime I was often sud- ij
denly interrupted, and left the words half written, and Thou !>
* This is an awkward rendering, but it appears to express the meaning, viz.: that wkftt j (
was written was entirely without admixture from her own mind. j i
gavest me afterwards that which pleased Thee. What I wrote
was not in my head ; my mind was entirely vacant. I was
so disengaged from what I wrote, that it was, as it were,
foreign to me.”—C. 21, p. 221 et seq.
Now, for the more objective phenomena. After describing
how the “ Demon ” appeared to her in a horrible shape, and
how she rid herself of the apparition by a calm and courageous
contempt (not even condescending to make the sign of the
cross) she proceeds “ this contemptuous treatment made him
far more spiteful, thus he no longer appeared in that manner
(visibly), but he went into such a rage that every night, at
midnight, when I was going to bed, he came at that hour,
and made terrible noises in my room. After I had laid down
it was still worse; at times he shook my bed; then he fell
upon the paper sashes, which he broke, and every morning,
while that lasted, the sashes were found broken. I had no
fear, not even any tremor of the senses. I rose, lit my candle,
and looked all round the room, and at the sashes when the
demon knocked upon them more loudly than usual. But as
he saw that I feared nothing, he left quite suddenly, and
attacked me no more in person.”—0. 5, p. 43 et seq.
The automatic writing of the Scriptural passages and ex¬
planations was in the year 1684—the other experiences
apparently belong to an earlier date. . C. 0. M.
Mr. William H. Harrison has acceded to a request to read a paper
before the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism towards
the close of the autumn of the current year.
The Fiji Islanders’ Belief.—Mr. J. M. Peebles has visited the
Fiji Islands. He says that the Fijians believe in God and a future
existence, and multitudes of demons, there being one bad king-demon
above all hosts whom they call Taboro. To him they pray. God they
denominate Halo. He resides in the sun, whispers in the winds,
and manifests his displeasure in the hurricane. They hold converse
with spirits. They fast, and in an ecstatic state they profess to see
their dead relatives, and to foretell the future. They also cast out
bad spirits.
Contradictory Spirit Messages.—Our sources of religious know¬
ledge are not in the affirmations of any man or any spirit, but in a
devout study of the works of God, of the moral order of the universe,
and of the phenomena of life, natural and spiritual, and of all great
thoughts from whatever sources. The very contradictions and absur¬
dities which come to us from the spiritual world convey a stupendous
truth, showing what a blind guide the dominant theology has been;
they show that the change produced in us by death is not so great that
we grow at once from dunces into wise men, from villains into saints,
from misanthropes into philanthropists, or from sneaks into gentlemen.
These confusing, contradictory, and very illiterate communications, so
shocking to the sesthetic sensibilities of the dilettanti, show that man is
still man after he has thrown off this mortal envelope, and that no
magical presto change uttered by theology in his behalf on his accept¬
ing an atonement, or acquiescing in a peculiar interpretation of certain
old books, or putting himself in the hands of a priest, is going to
transmute him, by the mere process of. physical death, from a very poor
creature into an angel of light.—JEpes Sargent.
Temptation.—In the old burying ground adjoining the Goshen-
hoppen Reformed Church, in Upper Hanover township, is a tomb¬
stone which bears the inscription, “ A. D., Rosina Schultz, murdered
June 14th, anno 1750. Aged 29 years. For death is come into our
windows. Jer. ix. 21.” The Scriptural quotation has an actual sig¬
nificance. The story of the affair is now told as a tradition. Her
husband was away, from home, and she lightly punished a slave for
some offence. He made up his mind to kill her, but a better spirit
prevailed, and he went to work in the field. The old story says that
while there an apparition in the form of a white man appeared before
him and said, “ Don’t kill her! ” It disappeared, and a black man
came, who whispered, “ Kill her ! ” These two spectres confronted
him alternately all day, until nightfall, when the white man disap¬
peared, leaving the black man alone, who still kept telling him to
kill her. At midnight he seized a butcher’s knife, and, getting into her
room through a window, stabbed her and fled. Thus it was that
death came to her through her window.—Norristown Herald.
Spirit Music near a Dying Woman.—The Salem (J/gss.) Gazette
says:—“ The following phenomenon was witnessed at the death-bed of
an old lady who recently died in this city, and was related to the
writer by two members of the party present. Between the hours of
four and five in the morning, while four women were watching in the
chamber of death, loud knockings were heard by all of them on the
head-board of the bedstead. Soon beautiful music was heard outside
of the back window, which approached nearer and nearer, until it
entered the room and filled it with melody. After these sweet "sounds
had entered the room, one of the ladies asked another if she heard
anything. * Yes,’ said she, ‘ I heard beautiful music.’ The two
other watchers heard it distinctly; so did the dying one, who feebly
spoke and said, ‘Sweet music ; sweet music.’ Could these women have
deceived themselves, and merely imagined that they heard the angelic
host ? Would not a man be hanged for murder on less positive
evidence 1 ”
132
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 14, 1877,
U THE ORACLE.”
The following is one of the Poems of Progress, given through the
trance mediumship of Miss Lizzie Doten:—
Like the roar of distant cataracts,
Like the slumb’rous roll of waves,
Like the night wind in the willows,
Sighing over lonely graves,
Like oracular responses,
Echoing from their secret caves.
Comes a sound of solemn meaning,
From the spirits gone before,
Comes a terrible ‘‘ Awake thou 1 ”
Startling man from sleep once more,
Like a wild wave, heating, breaking,
On this Life’s tempestuous shore.
In Earth’s desolated temples
Have the oracles grown dumb,
And the priests, with lifeless rituals,
All man’s noblest powers benumb;
But a solemn voice is speaking,
Speaking of the yet to come;
There will be a chosen priestess,
Springing from the lap of Ease,
Hastening to the soul’s Dodona,
Where, amid the sacred trees,
She will hear Divine responses
Whispered in the passing breeze.
She will be a meek-faced woman,
Chastened by affliction’s rod,
Who hath worshipped at the altar
Of the spirits’ “ unknown God ; ”
Who, in want, and woe, and weakness,
All alone the wine-press trod,
Till the salt-sea foam of sorrow
Whitened on her quivering lips,
Till her heart’s full tide of anguish
Flooded to her finger tips,
And her soul sank down in darkness
Smitten by a dread eclipse.
“Pure in heart ” and “ poor in spirit,”
Hers will be that inner life
Which earth’s martyr-souls inherit
Who are conquerors in the strife.
Bom of God, they walk with angels,
Where the air with love is rife—
Men will call her “ Laureola,’’
And her pale, meek brow will crown;
But with holiest aspirations
She will shun the world’s renown,
And before the Truth’s high altar
Cast earth’s votive offerings down.
Men will sit like little children
At her feet, high truths to learn;
And for love, the pure and holy,
She will cause their hearts to yearn.
Then the innocence of Eden
To their spirits shall return.
Very fearless in her freedom,
She will scorn to simply please:
But the fiercest lion-spirits
She will lead with quiet ease ;
Calm, but earnest, firm, and truthful,
She will utter words like these:—
t‘ Wherefore, 0! ye sons of sorrow,
Do ye idly sit and borrow
Care and trouble for the morrow,
Filling up your cup of woe ?
Leave, 0 leave your visions dreary!
Hush your doleful miserere l
See the lilies how they grow—
Bending down their heads so lowly,
As though heaven were far too holy,
Growing patiently and slowly
To the end that God designed,
In their fragrance and their beauty
Filling up their sphere of duty—
Each is perfect in its kind.
“Deeper than all sense of seeing
Lies the secret source of being,
And the soul with truth agreeing
Learns to live in thoughts and deeds;
For the life is more than raiment,
And the earth is pledged for payment,
Unto man for all his needs.
“ Nature is your common mother,
Every living man your brother,
Therefore love and serve each other,
Not to meet the law’s behest,
But because through cheerful giving
You will learn the art of living,
And to love and serve is best.
“ Life is more than mankind fancies,
Not a game of idle chances,
But it steadily advances
Up the rugged steep of Time;
Till man’s complex web of trouble,
Every sad hope’s broken bubble,
Hath a meaning most sublime.
“ More of practice, less profession,
More of firmness, less concession,
More of freedom, less oppression,
In your Church and in your State.
More of life, and less of fashion,
More of love, and less of passion—
These will make you good and great.
“ When true hearts divinely gifted,
From the chaff of Error sifted,
On their crosses are uplifted,
Shall your souls most clearly see
That Earth’s greatest time of trial
Calls for holy self-denial,
Calls our men to do and be.
“ But, for ever, and for ever,
Let it be your soul’s endeavour,
Love from hatred to dissever;
And in whatso’er ye do,
Won by truth’s eternal beauty,
To your highest sense of duty
Evermore be firm and true.
“ Heavenly messengers descending
With a patience never ending,
Evermore their strength are lending,
And will aid you lest you fall.
Truth is an eternal mountain.
Love a never-failing fountain
Which will cleanse and save you all.”
List to her, ye worn and weary,
Hush your heart-throbs, hold the breath,
Lest ye lose one word of wisdom,
Which the answering spirit saith.
Hear her, O ye blood-stained nations,
In your holocaust of death,
Lo, your oracles have failed you
In the dust your idols fall,
And a mighty hand is writing
Words of judgment on the wall:
“ Ye are weighed within the balance,
And found wanting,” one and all.
Mournful murmurs, direful discords,
Greet you from Destruction’s night,
For life’s lower stratum heaving
Brings long-buried wrongs to light.
And your souls shall find no refuge,
Save with the Eternal Right.
In one grand unbroken phalanx,
Firm, united, bravely stand,
Faithful in the way of duty,
Ready at the Truth’s command,
And for ever let your motto
Be this—“ God and my Right hand.”
Sept. 14, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Kepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of W. H, Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6d.
EOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OP ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. Is. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OP SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.'
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 8s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. P.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem. Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 16s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rale, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents : The
Xnti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
,eving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo,,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
hy vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no douht as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. ,24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a’trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. „
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testunony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. fid.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. Ss.
WORKS BT ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer," s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . • .76
The Seer. „ III, „ . , . .76
The Beformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . • .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
r Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims , . 1 . . ,26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. , . . .30
Morning Lectures . , * . . , .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. di
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spibitualist Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds ......
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism .
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ....
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ....
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 a.d. and 618 Am.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind’; or. A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople , ... . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . .18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10
2 6
6 0
14 0
18 0
12 6
15 0
7 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description o/ Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W. C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is. singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—-
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he bo
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself? To those who are un•
acquamted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russe
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIEIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold iti the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders. THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ’’ an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, Georgo-street,
Sloaue-square, S.W.
IV
THE SPIKITXJALIST,
Sept. 14, 1877,
The great question of the day.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PHI NOE
ALBERT THE (IREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were. rude in
comparison to ours,
INQUESTS. —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO'S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature’s own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIO in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Tbirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
muts be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water. &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine proauct of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping ihe system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious Diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M R.C.S., L A.C., London, writes:—
“I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being tne only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will he very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T, A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say : “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c."
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16, 1877.
“A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says be never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
u M. BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PH ARM ACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
PE LA PAIX
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—^Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State ot Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—^Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Spontar
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious pr Waking State—Dr, Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must-be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy , of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly (Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Oautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER Xll:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic. ' f '
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions Of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Oases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Oases.
CHAPTER XV :—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Will be Published in a few days.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo. richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing GifLBook of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
, Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
L The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of tbe Fat Man —6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish' Loan,' to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride's Bay.—10, The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the M6ther-in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Obtainable at The Spiritvsalit Newspaper Branch Office, London.
PSYCHISCBE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakoe, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price 1ft. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritunlist Newspaper Blanch pffice.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
_ People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ’’ Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
A LADY ARTIST, Spiritualist, and pupil of
Signor Belucci, Florence, and other schools, will, from
the 15th October, receive sitters for portraits in her studio,
Kensington. Moderate prices to mediums and Spiritualists.
w
ANTED BY A LADY (Medium) a re¬
spectable girl of fourteen or fifteen, to train as
nursemaid for two little girls (ages three and two years).
Wages £6 per annum ; to be increased after six mouths’ training
and regularly so up to ten or twelve pounds per year; wash¬
ing and all found.—Apply first by letter, to Mrs. O. A., 4, The
Terrace, fcouth Lancing, Sussex.
WL. CANEY, photographer. Studio
• opposite the Unity Church, 151, Upper-street,
Islington. London, N.
F HUDSON, photographer, earnestly desires
• EMPLOYMENT that will keep him and his family
from want. Having no premises that can be used for photo¬
graphy, he is forced to look to other means of gaining a liveli¬
hood, and is willing to undertake any other sort of work suited
to his capacity. Address—25, Covent-gardens, Notting hill.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address C.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.C.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
vJ ciown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reatli the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wedi.es day
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, pos
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1, AveMaria lane, London,
E.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-ahove-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Avg
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
