BeGistebed as a Newspaper
S>ff)
&\i£ #lb.esf fxri^nK^b foitlj Spinlxtalism m (&xmi §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : ir, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosquc 246, Boule
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi/Via della Maltonaia
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 344. (Vol. XIV.—No. 13.) liONDON : FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
A Curious Method of Producing Sleep    ... 14S
“Building-up” Work Inside Spiritualism. By S. B.
Brittan, M.D   145
Dr. Slade in Australia 146
Change of Opinion. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.... ... 147
Spiritualism in Lancashire 147
Healing by Spirit Power     147
The Experiences of a Seer 148
Mesmerising with the Electric Light  148
Spontaneous Psychological Phenomena. By Eliza Boucher 149
New and Curious Manifestations in Philadelphia  150
Death-Bope Repentance    ... 150
Spiritualism and the Materialistic Philosophy of Germany.
By E. T. Wakefield     ...150
The Wakefulness and Dreams of Old Persons  150 .
The Practice of Cremation in Great Britain 151
Law Intelligence:—High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division—The Queen v. Mortimer and Another  152
Sunday Services at the Cavendish Booms  153
Poetry:—“loPean!"  154
Correspondence:—Madame Blavatsky—Plagiarism and
Spirit Communication 154
“ Spirits Before our Eyes"   155
March Sonnets—1879. By J. T. Markley. (Poetry.)... ... 155
Presentiments of Death          156
Paragraphs:—Spirits: Their Nature and Power, 146; As¬
sumed Premature Burial, 146 ; Indian Home Life,
146 ; Mr. Eglinton’s Medium ship, 147 ; A Tumour Re¬
moved by Mesmerism   ... ... .. ... ... ... 156
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record oj the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
nPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-i- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions in its columns are Mr. C. E. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess oi
CaithnessIlls Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples) ;• Baron Dirckinck-Hohnfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey: Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. O. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. RobertWyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the'Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Bpes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Ishani. Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof; Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelina Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Tcmpleman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. O. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Ooleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S.;
Mr. II. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O,
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Gapucines. and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Si' nor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Go. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010Seventh-street.
T3 APHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
JL\j AND EPHEMERTS for 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the'Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS.
The Offices of the Association are open between the hours of
2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except Saturday,
when they are open between the hours of 2 p.m. and 6 p.m.
TERMS.
A subscription of 5s. a year entitles to membership of the
Association with a vote at the Annual and other General
Meetings, and the right of purchasing tickets to the seances.
A further payment of half a guinea entitles to a book from the
Lending Library. A subscription of two guineas a year
includes membership, use of the Reading Room and Library,
two books from the Lending Library, free entrance to the
Fortnightly Discussion Meetings, and admission, at low
charges, to the stances of the Association. It further entitles
all other members of the family residing in the same house,
and who are also members of the Association, to share in the
above privileges. C. A. BURKE, Secretary.
At cayendish .rooms, mortimer
STREET, REGENT STREET, LONDON. March
80th, a Meeting will be held tp celebrate the 31st Anniversary
of Modem Spiritualism. The programme will consist of
short speeches from noted speakers.
A GRAND S OIREE, to conclude with dancing, will also
be given at the same place on Wednesday Evening, April 2nd.
Tickets may be had of Mr. Fletcher, 4, Bloomsbury-place,
W.C.; Miss O. Leslie-Younge, 32, Fairfax-road, N.W.; Mrs.
Maltby, 61, Gower-street; Mr. Caleb Bull, 32, Crawford-
street; Mr. Frank Everitt, 26, Penton-street.
BRIXTON psychological society.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-rOAd, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of boobs on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of, membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
The Religion of Spiritualism.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will LECTURE
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
At the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, W.
Admission Free.
Lecture begins at 7.30. Doors closed at 7.45.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Has the honour to announce
A GRAND SOIREE,
At CAVENDISH ROOMS, MORTIMER STREET, W., on
Wednesday Evening, April 2nd, to celebrate the 31st Anni¬
versary of Modem Spiritualism.
Many eminent artistes will appear, and the Soiree will con¬
clude with dancing.
Single tickets 2s. 6d., double tickets 4s., which can be had of
Mrs. Maltby, 61,(Gower-street; Miss Leslie-Younge, 32, Fairfax-
road, N.W.; Mrs. Fletcher, 4, Bloomsbury place; Mr. Frank
Everitt, 26, Penton-street; Mr. Cabel Bull, 32, Crawford-street.
Doors open at 6.30, commence 7.30.
MR. FLETCHER’S SUNDAY LECTURES.
These Lectures at the Cavendish Rooms will be continued
during the months of April, May, and June. Admission free.
A Committee has been formed to defray the expenses of the
Rooms, and earnestly ask for contributions. Contributors
will have seats reserved for them.
Particulars on application to the Secretary, Miss Leslie-
Younge, 32, Fairfax-road, N.W.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following Engagements:—Hastings, Gensing Hall,
Afternoon and Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial
Society, February 4. Plymouth Mechanics’ Institute, February
12 (second time this season). Redruth Institution, February
13. Truro Institution, February 14 (second time this season).
Leamington Institute, February 25. Finchley (Church end),
February 27. Croydon Literary Institution, March 6 (second
time). Favourable terms arranged with Institutes ,en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given .at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-
street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
March 12th, April 9th, May 14th, June 11th. Tickets 6s., 8s.,
2s., and Is.
N.B.—The Second Recitation of the Series will be given on
Friday, February 28, instead of Ash Wednesday, February 26.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 8 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon. ;
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi-
cations. as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
 Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
  Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & CO. London. 
ASTROLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT
BRITAIN.
Founded February 19<A, 1879.
The Committee invite ladies and gentlemen who take an
interest in Astrology to join the above-named Society. As
soon as the funds of the Society shall permit, a Journal will
be published, and papers read at the meetings of the Society
will be printed, subject to the approval of the Committee. By
this means each member will be made conversant with the
scientific experience of hundreds of experts. Terms of mem¬
bership may be had of the Hon. Sec., Alfred J. Pearce, 3,
Cedars-terrace, Queen’s-road, South Lambeth, London, S.W.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “Apparitions of the Living.’’
Feb. 17.—Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kislingbury’s Paper.
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mr. Calder, “ The New Era.”
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “ Experiences in the Home
Circle,” No. 2.
April 21.—The Rev. W. Miall, “ Exoteric Observation in Spirit¬
ualism.”
MayS.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.. “Recent Research i
the Phenomena of Sniritualism.”
May 19.—
June 2.—Mr. G. F. Green, “ Spiritualism and its Teachings, in
their relation to Problems of Government.”
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ Review of the Session.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.Vl
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—8, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated- pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &e., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
 FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Lunacy law reform association
64, Berners-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 28, 1879,
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President, j / fj
Alex. Ca'der, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, Seuth Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1. Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs , 19, Camtirtdg-e-street, Hyde-park, W.
Eitz-Gerald, Desmond G-> M.s.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Honvwood Mrs.. 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jenrken, Henry D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Bogers, E. Dawson, Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhone Tom pi cm a n, M. D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
r'-ad. Soufb Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adsl’ead, W P., Derby House. Belner.
Barkas, T- P.. Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tjme.
Barrett, F , The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addisconibe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Blnno.y, F A., 24, St. Ann s-square. Manchester
Komvick, J., F.R.G.S.. Vale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W, H., 94, Cornwali-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dswe, N- Fabyan, S, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Fernands, T. H . 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
F.llis, Mrs., S9, Tuftiell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton. R., 34, Walnut-street, Oheetham, Manchester.
Kite-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, O. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hiil. Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton. Miss. 90 Deiamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hunt. Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charks, Bart, Lamport-hall, Northampton.
L'Toont, J'ohn, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Mnlthy, Mrs., fil, Gower-street, W.G.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
.Miall, Rev. W., 71,' Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, .T. J., F.lm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road. Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, "Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Pearoe, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, (!.. 13. Harpur-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Reirrers. Christian, 47, Morning*on-road -Regent’s-park.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford. *
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granviile-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Trcdwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vY.
Turner, j. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. .J-, 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, ,T., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withal!, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. Jbhn’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Ke nsington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Secretary.
Miss rurke, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg. Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme.. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy,
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
j. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co..New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Borlogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
lames Mylne, Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drum m end-street, Carlton, Melbourne
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy 1,
Paris.
F. pes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq.. M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. 11. Gledstanes, Esq., Merjgnac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrleux, Quartier de 1’Europe,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxel’es.
Lieut -Col. P. Jacoby, 11,Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30, Upper Gloueester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton. F.R.G.S.. H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.Sf, Waidron Edge, Duppas-hlll,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epc^es, Hungary. .
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigli-street, Belgrave-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna,
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street. Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. See.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Daisto n Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. See., Mr, A. J. Smart,.22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola.. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
 dent, Sener Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT BUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. For
terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Government prosecutions for
MEDICAL HERESY: a Verbatim Report of the Case
‘j Regina v. Tebb.” Dedicated to the Board of St. Pancras
Guardians, London. With letters from the Right Hon. W. E.
Gladstone, M.P., the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P., and others.
Forty pp., Price 2d., or Is. 9d. per dozen, or 12s. per 100. This
pamphlet should be circulated largely during elections of
Guardians and Members of Parliament. Published by Edward
W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love.may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state oj trance
during which some oj the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Pakt I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Chiid.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer XXIV- Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
doth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
-By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE, COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It shows
(we think successfully) that every form of mediumship, now so
familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of
identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These hooks, consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrowing
parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper BrRnch Office, London, W.O.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. 4. January. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Is Immortality a Delusion? By Epes Sargent.
II.—Sister Celeste. By J. O. Earle.
III. —Spiritual Philosophy in Relation to Death and Spirit Life.
By Rev. J. Page Hopps.
IV. —Inspiration. No. 2. By Mrs. De Morgan.
V.—Reminiscences of George Thompson. By his Daughter,
Mrs. Nosworthy,
VI.—Zetalethes, the Truthseeker. By Miss Greenfield.
VII.—The Mound-Buildeis. By William Denton.
V III.—Montanism.
Materialistic Mysticism—A Geologist’s Confession—The Seat
of Evil)
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O,
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
ME. OMERIN,
s, Northumberland street, strand, London.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 t j 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St Honord,
Paris.
W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
_J © engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 35, Blurton-road, Clap-
ton-park, E.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal-
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit-circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Franklin
gives Seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Brunswiek-square,
from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every evening from
8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engagements can be made
by letter sent to the above address.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
flURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
I ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes-
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 10,5. Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday evenings, office hours, owing to press of business,
extended to nine o’clock.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
A NNALI DELLO SPIR1T1SMO IN
-Ol ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15ih of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23. «
KEVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiqu.es, fondS par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSYCHISCBE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsie: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a' twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
BRIGHTON.—MISS WOOD, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. — Terms on
application.
I [FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms: References to Spiritualists can he
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Miohael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each ; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
sonnerie. Paris.
W-ANTED.—CHARGE OF~CHAMBERS
or Offices, or as Housekeeper in any place of trust,
by a Middle-aged Person. Good references.—Address,
R. E. M., Molly’s, Newsagent, Roman-road, Barnsbury, Isling¬
ton, London.
BRIGHTON.—2'he Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Bough ton, St. George’s-road.
i®
gyj
m
ip
ZW
Si/«
xA $f il^ imit ^(|it[$ tl ^jtijjiiurfbiu*
No. 344.—YojLUjVIE FOURTEEN ; NuMBEH THIF(TEEJ^.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
A CURIOUS METHOD OF PRODUCING SLEEP. -
Dr. Darwin states that a man placed on a rapidly
revolving mill-stone soon goes to sleep, and Dr. Macnish
observes:—“By lying flat upon a mill-stone while per¬
forming its revolutions, sleep is soon produced, and death
without pain would be the result, if the experiment were
greatly protracted.” Sir John Sinclair says:—“The cele¬
brated engineer, Brindley, often saw the experiment tried,
of a man extending himself across the large stone of a corn-
mill, and gradually falling asleep by the stone whirling
round, before the stone had gained its full velocity.”
Why should the rotation of the human body produce this
effect? Dr. Herbert Mayo suggests that “pressure upon
the brain, and stupor, would be the natural physical and
physiological consequences of such an experiment.”
There may be another cause. With each half rotation the
magnetism of the earth would act with opposite poles upon
the diamagnetic human body. These momentary reversals of
a physical force may, in some unknown way, have to
do with the result. The Lord Lindsay might solve this point
by placing a man longitudinally between the movable poles
of his monster electro-magnet, and setting up momentary
reversals in a weak electrical current sent through its helices.
If the motionless man then went to sleep, it would prove
that the rotation of the human body had nothing to do
with the result, but that magnetic pulsations produced the
effect.
Travellers in foreign lands are seldom psychologists,
wherefore interesting facts are constantly lost to the world.
May it not be possible that the dancing dervishes are thrown
into a state of trance by their bodily rotations, consequently
that there is a certain amount of spiritual philosophy in their
fantastic method of devotion? Probably no European
observer has taken the trouble to ascertain this point, or
seen the use of ascertaining the psychological state of the
dervishes when occupied in their teetotum exercises.
“BUILDING UP” WORK INSIDE SPIRITUALISM.*
BY S. B. BRITT AN, M.D.
There’s a midnight blackness changicg
Into grey:
Men of thought, and men of action,
Clear the way!
In 1853—twenty-five years ngo—I prepared a memorial
addressed to the United States Senate, asking for the
appointment of a Scientific Commissioner to investigate the
spiritual manifestations. This document was signed by
13,000 American citizens. With the names attached, it was
two hundred feet long. For convenience in handling it
was backed with muslin, handsomely bound, and mounted on
a cylinder. In April, 1854, the memorial was presented to
the Senate by Hon. James Shields, of Illinois, in a charac¬
teristic speech of considerable length, and in which the general
said :—“ I have now given a faithful synopsis of this petition,
which, however unprecedented in itself, has been prepared
with singular ability, presenting the subject with great
delicacy and moderation.”
After some discussion respecting its reference to a special
committee, the memorial was, on motion of Senator Mason,
ordered to lie on the table; and it now remains in the
archives at Washington. It is true the United States
Government often appoints commissioners to consider
questions of less moment, and sends its agents to look after
interests of inferior magnitude. A grave legislative body,
composed mainly of infidels and materialists, might at least
have referred such a petition to its Committee of Foreign
* A portion of a public address on Leadership and Organisation delivered in New York.
MARCH 28th, 1879.
Relations; but it did not. The spirit world was not down
on the congressional atlas; and as the Government had
formed no treaty with that country, it occurs to me that such
a reference, after all, might have been inappropriate. Com¬
mercial treaties alone take hold of interests that are so
tangible that even Government officials can see their import¬
ance, especially when avarice sharpens the vision, and they
are well paid for their services.
Now, why may we not proceed at once, without the aid of
Congress, and appoint a commission to mould into becoming
and practical shape the essential elements of the New Faith,
philosophy and religion, taking care, of course, to provide
for the commissioners until their work is accomplished.
This matter is doubtless of as much consequence to mankind
as many of the objects for which the National Government
annually expends large sums of the people’s money. We
make frequent drafts on the public Treasury to defray the
expenses of the legislative lawyers whom we employ to tinker
the tariff laws, while, as a rule, they know little or nothing
of the wants of a commercial people. We also send com¬
missioners to the Black Hills to smoke pipes with Modocs ;
we employ secret agents to watch Custom-house officers and
look after Sitting Bull; we send others to negotiate for the
privilege of catching cod fish on the banks of Newfoundland ;
and others still to search for the bones of Sir John Franklin
or some other man. Why not now resolve to employ some
time and means on a live subject ? Organise Spiritualism
I on a broad, natural and rational basis; make a decent
| provision for carrying forward the great objects suggested by
its liberal principles and benign spirit, and it will speedily
| command the respect of the world. Lift its white banner
I from the dust. Too long has it been desecrated by infidel
| feet. Let us make haste to cleanse it from the pollutions of
| this world. Plant the standard on the highest moral
| eminence; and its silken folds, waving aloft in the clear
I light and pure air of heaven, will gladden the eyes and inspire
| the hearts of millions with rejoicing.
We still wait for the organising mind to comprehend the
I necessities of the hour; and for the strong hand that shall
| gather up, as from the four winds, the moral elements and
| spiritual forces of the great reformation. We invoke the
] presence of
A spirit fit to start into an empire,
And look the world to law.
We have reviewed the lawless army of the iconoclasts, and
! the implements of destruction in their hands. In their
| madness they hurled the ancient idols from their pedestals,
| demolished the temples, and extinguished the fires on the
| old altars. The very ground beneath the feet of the in-
| vaders is covered with the fragments of sacred images. With
I a fine sense of propriety the Iscariots went out early—pro-
j bably to hang themselves, as they have not returned. The
I waster has had his day. He came in the morning ; and,
! lo ! at evening his work was done. Many looked sorrowful
| while they gazed upon the ruins.
Grey-bearded Use, who, deaf and blind,
Groped for his old accustomed stone,
Leaned on his staff, and wept, to find
His seat o’erthrown.
We are weary of the discordant sounds that signal the
| progress of the destroyer. Let the rude din be hushed ;
| we would have silence for noise. The waster must retire.
| There is room for the builder now. He may come to his
| place and perform his work. We demand now and here-
| after the earnest labour of reconstruction. The true disciples
I will become living stones in the sacred building. Let them
i come together, each in his proper place and relation. Then
| will the new spiritual edifice, like the walls of the ancient
i temple, be upreared without the sound of a hammer.
146
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 28, 1879.
PR. SLADE IN AUSTRALIA.
(From the “Harbinger of Light," Melbourne.)
It was not our intention to have directly noticed the conjuring enter- |
tainment now taking place at St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, but on
Monday last an imitation of Dr. Slade’s slate-writing having been I
announced, we felt it incumbent upon us to be present, on public
grounds, to enable us to denote the difference between the real and fic- j
titious phenomena. Being called upon by several to join the committee,
we acceded, and assisted in tying the performers for the cabinet trick,
which was cleverly performed, though wanting in much which distin¬
guished the Davenport seances.
Our interest, however, was centred in the slate-writing, which we |
waited patiently for, and in due time the table and slates made their
appearance on the stage. They were placed on the opposite side to j
where the committee were seated, one of their number, Mr. A. P. I
Martin, being requested by Mr. Baldwin to sit with him at the table, a
small cedar one, with flaps, which, when closed, fitted into slots or i
recesses, and when opened left a ledge nearly an inch wide. The sitter j
(Mr. Martin) was placed with his knees between the close legs of the j
table, about sixteen inches apart, Mr. Baldwin sitting near the corner j
of the table to his left. The slates used were very small, about 6 + 8,
outside measure. After cleaning both sides of one and one side of the j
other, and exhibiting the clean one to Mr. Martin, Mr. Baldwin placed j
it with a small piece of pencil under the table. Holding it close up and j
scratching it with his nail, he desired Mr. Martin to listen to the writing, !
which the latter said he heard. One or two taps were given i
with the slate in imitation of raps, and then with the right hand, j
the left being still on the table, Mr. Baldwin fixed the slate in the j
slot in a slanting position, and, taking the pencil in his fingers, delibe¬
rately wrote a line on it: he then released it and passed it up on to the j
table with the words “ We have come,” on it. This performance he re- I
peated, with a little variation, and he then proposed to try the double |
slate. A grain of pencil was placed on the clean slate, and the other, |
with the ready written message, put over it. It was then placed under j
the table, Mr.* Martin being allowed to hold one end of it. After a little |
scratching with the finger-nail, the long-written message was produced.
Mr. Baldwin stated to the audience that this was what Dr. Slade !
charged a guinea for, and made several other glaring misstatements in
reference to that gentleman.
We waited for the finish, and then arising from our seat on the j
platform, intimated to the audience our desire to correct some of the
misstatements made. We invited anyone present to accompany us from !
the hall direct to Dr. Slade’s room, for the purpose of examining his j
table, which had no slot or rest for the slate. We gave Mr. Baldwin j
credit for having produced a fair imitation of the Davenport per- !
formances, but pronounced the slate-writing business a miserable j
travesty of Dr. Slade’s stances ; that, besides their being no slot in j
the table, the slates' used by Dr. Slade were much larger, were i
almost invariably brought by the sitters, and were frequently filled |
with writing.
Mr. Winter, of the Herald, then rose and said that he and a fellow
pressman had attended three seances of Dr. Slade’s, and considered ,
Professor Baldwin’s expose of the slate-writing a fair duplication of <
what he had witnessed.
Mr. Baldwin said the discussion could not be continued, but offered (
to discuss physical phenomena with ourselves or anyone else on Sunday
evening; or to make a series of bets against Dr. Slade’s doing certain
things proposed by him, concluding by quoting an Americanism,
which he considered appropriate, viz., “ Put up, or shut up.” As
Dr. Slade was absent from Melbourne, the alternative was necessarily
accepted, and the talking ended.
After the performance, Mr. Winter asked if we had any objection to
let Mr. Baldwin see the table, and, accompanied by two other gentle¬
men, we conducted them to Dr. Slade’s room for this purpose, and
proved that the table was not a trick one. Baldwin, however,
suggested that the brace running across the middle of the table would
serve to support the slate. On being requested to demonstrate this, he
declined unless paid; and, using offensive language in reference to Dr.
Slade, we were under the necessity of cautioning him against its repe¬
tition on our premises.
- Since then he has been publishing personal challenges to Dr. Slade, i
though aware that that gentleman is not in Melbourne. Our own I
opinion is, that if he were here, he would treat Baldwin’s challenges I
with contempt. The verdict of the judicial committee, for whom he has j
been sitting, is of infinitely more importance than that of a professed j
conjurer, who would not be likely to confess himself beaten under any
circumstances.
Assumed Prematube Buriai..—-APlymouth correspondent telegraphs: j
—A strange affair has just happened at Linkinhorne, Cornwall. Last j
week William Seymour, a miner, was found dead in Phoenix mine. It j
was supposed he had died in a fit, and a verdict to that effect was
returned at the coroner’s inquest. He was interred last Sunday at the j
burial-ground of Darley Chapel. A neighbour of the deceased the next I
night dreamed that a gentleman in a carriage and pair had driven up to I
the house of the mother of the deceased and said her son was not dead, |
but had been buried alive. This dream being noised abroad, the next |
night seven or eight men went to the graveyard, dug up the coffin, and I
carried it to a chapel. They unscrewed the coffin-lid, and there was the j
body of their comrade apparently still living and breathing. So con¬
vinced were they of this that they set him up, and while some attempted
to revive him by stimulants and friction, others ran off to the nearest
surgeon, two miles distant. The surgeon, Mr. Newsam, soon arrived,
and examined the body amid great excitement; and then stated that the I
man was dead, and had been dead some days. Mr. Newsam rebuked j
the men for their folly, and the body was then quickly reinterred ; but
the matter has excihd much commotion.”—The Observer.
When reason is against a man, a man will be against reason.—
f Hobbes.
Art is the effort of man to express the ideas which nature suggests to
him of a power above nature, whether that power be within the recesses
| of his own being or in the Great First Cause, of which nature, like
himself, is but the effect.—JBulwer Lytton.
Indian Home Life.—Professor Monier Williams gave a lecture
| recently at the London Institution on the subject of “ Indian Home
! Life.” He said that home life in India—he had reference solely to
I Hindoos, not Mohammedans—was intimately interwoven with caste and
religion; caste, custom, and religion were almost convertible terms, and
| every man found himself curbed In all he did by the most minute regu¬
lations. The lecturer described many of the religious observances and
domestic manners and customs of high-caste Hindoos ; and, speaking
1 of religious belief and marriage, he said :—Hindoos believed that the
! soul had three bodies—one, a material or gross body, which was burnt
| after death; the second, a body which rose with the soul from the
[ funeral pyre, and accompanied it through its innumerable existences ;
| and the third, an intermediate body with which the soul was invested
i during its intermediate condition of happiness or of misery, before its
reappearance in another gross body on the earth. The intermediate
| body required to be refreshed by food, which was offered to it by sons
or grandsons. The most important event, therefore, in Indian home-
j life was the birth of a son, and a wife was a person of very slight value
except in her character of mother. Daughters were but little regarded.
| A son was to every Hindoo the first and last of all necessary things,
j When a son was born the family priest was sent for, and the process of
I regenerating the child went on, one of the ceremonies, accompanied
with prayers, being that of feeding him with honey and clarified butter.
The family astrologer also drew up the record of the child’s nativity,
and wrote a prophecy of his life. When a boy was five years old he
was betrothed, a professional matchmaker being employed. On his
initiation into the Hindoo faith he was invested with a three-fold cotton
cord, which symbolised the trinities of the Hindoo religion, and was a
mark that the person wearing it was “ twice born,” that he had been
born again, regenerated. As soon as he had been made regenerate, his
religious life began. Englishmen were, in the opinion of orthodox
Hindoos, unregenerate and unclean, and their very touch was believed
to defile. After the nuptial ceremony a boy returned without his bride
to his father’s house, but at the age of fifteen or sixteen he was allowed
to live with his child wife. He (Professor Williams) had at Indian high
schools and colleges often examined boys, half of whom were fathers.
Early marriages were the curse of India. The condition of Hindoo
girls was one of hopeless ignorance ; they were unable to read, they
were never taught rules of health, or the most elementary truths of
science. A feeling prevailed that a girl who had learned to read had
committed a sin which would bring down a judgment on her or her hus¬
band. A young widow had practically no existence; an old widow was
cared for by her children; but a young childless widow was regarded
as worse than dead. She might not marry again (a man would marry
again eleven or twelve days after the death of his wife); she was sup¬
posed to be in perpetual mourning for her dead husband, although she
might never have seen him except at her child-wedding; and she was a
household drudge.
Spirits : their Nature and Powers.—This was the title of a
lecture delivered in the Mechanics’ Institution, Heywood, on Tuesday
evening, by Mr. J. J. Morse, trance medium, under the auspices of
the spiritualistic body in Heywood, who have lately been holding a
series of meetings of a similar character, with a view to propagate their
tenets in this locality. The chair was occupied by Mr. James Wild,
and there was a fair attendance. The lecturer opened his remarks by
informing his hearers that Spiritualism was a necessity, and that its
would-be exposers should be acquainted with its phenomena before
condemning it. It dealt with facts, rather than theories and dogmas.
There were many instances in the past of what was called second
sight, and this could only be acquired by intercourse with the spiritual
world. Most people could tell of some strange thing that was predicted,
which had happened even although it was apparently beyond the ken
of mortals. People might well ask were these things contrary to the
laws of nature. The Spiritualists emphatically answered “No.”
These were simply the outcome of higher laws which humanity could
not understand. The phenomena of Spiritualism claimed to be ruled
by those higher laws. First, as to its evidence, he might ask if the
orthodox church of the present day would be prepared to renounce all
attested facts of spiritual intervention in moral affairs. They had
heard of ghost stories, and they were either true or false; they were
either lies or facts. Their veracity had been testified by people who
might be regarded as above practising deception, and who carried
their senses with them. Spiritualists began to be distinguished as a
sect about thirty years ago, and in spite of the opposition, interest, and
social caste of modern times, Spiritualism had made such progress as
to enter almost all their churches, and to mould to a considerable
extent the theology of the day. If there was no truth in it, it was a
remarkable fact that there was so much smoke and no fire. Spirit¬
ualism was the only present-day evidence of a future state. It had
therefore done more for the Atheists than all the churches, and if this
had been done by the instrumentality of the devil and his angels, the
churches ought to move a vote of thanks to his Satanic majesty for
bringing these men to a knowledge and belief in future life. The power
of spirits over those with whom they were in communication in this life
was exercised in the same manner as that of the mesmerist over his
subject, namely, the will. That power was incontestable, and continued
even after death. Spiritualism was not yet elevated to a science, and
its laws were not sufficiently well known to be appreciated and under¬
stood. (Applause.) Several questions were asked, and answered in a
satisfactory manner, and the proceedings terminated with the usual
complimentary votes.—The Bury Times.
Maech 28, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
147
CHANGE OF OPINION.
BY HENRY Gr. ATKINSON, F.G.S.
Many years ago Emerson, the writer and philosopher,
ef the Carlyle of America,” said: “ With the strongest
Christian faith the belief in a future life is but a hope at
best. It can be nothing more, but the best proof of it we
can find is the feeling and desire to have it. But what we
most need is not eternal duration, but more depth.” What
this word <( depth” may signify I do not know. Does it
mean more knowledge and learning ? more earnestness and
devotedness to the cause of truth in the view of elevating
and ameliorating the condition of mankind ? I cannot say.
The meaning of metaphysical expressions is often indefinite
and misleading, or perhaps used as a mask to disguise the
real opinions. Emerson is now old, and I am told that his
opinion concerning another life is quite changed : that, in
fact, he is now a believer in another or future life. It is
difficult to account for such a change in such a thinker,
unless the facts of Spiritualism have influenced him. He
still remains vice-president of the “ Free Religious Associa¬
tion,” which includes most of the best writers and thinkers
in America.
Mr. Lewes was another instance of change of opinion in
his later days. In his biographical history of philosophy he
had all along declared philosophy to be impossible, but came
round to my opinion at last in his Problems of Life and
Mind, that philosophy is quite possible if you will use the
right method—that same fruitful method which you apply
to all other sciences. Metaphysics cuts the flowers from the
stem; no wonder that they wither in the hand and come to
nothing, and leave men wildly contending over the ashes.
Miss Martineau was another instance of the change of
opinion in after life—that is after forty—when, like Lewes
years afterwards, she came to be of my opinion in respect to
philosophy, or what I may term the method and science of
philosophy, and the consequences therefrom; but with her
stronger faith in truth—11 the body of God,” as Plato terms
it—or at least in the right method of interpretation, her
taste and estimate of literary productions changed, and she
could no longer tolerate her own novel of Deerbroolu “ I have
got beyond that now,” she would say. She had always
considered Scott’s Bride of Lammermoor to be his best
novel, with which I never would agree, but said, “ I suppose | j
you ought to know best,” and no doubt it is something 1
wanting in me, and so it must pass. I cannot understand | i
it, or see it differently.” But in a postscript to one of her j j
last letters to me she says: “P.S.—I am in a state of j j
amazement at a discovery just made; I have read again [after j j
half a lifetime] Scott’s Bride of Lammermoor, and am utterly j |
disappointed in it. The change in my taste is beyond j j
accounting for—almost beyond belief.” The reason of her I j
former impression given me was that it was a real story, and i
that all the incidents told upon the results. But I said, j I
“ Character is the great thing, and there is no character in j !
the whole novel that interests me, as is the case in most of j j
Scott’s romances ; and the humour is too ridiculous.” It is j j
a curious psychological fact that Mr. Scott dictated the work j j
from his bed of sickness, and when it was soon afterwards i |
shown him in print, he had forgotten all about it, and read j j
it through with fear and apprehension lest it should prove a I
blunder. When asked afterwards how he found it: “Oh,” j
he said, “ it is overstrained; but it made me laugh and I must !
hope the public will be indulgent.” It was felt to] be a j
painful subject, and they never ventured to refer to it again, j
It is not easy to account for such a phenomenon, unless we
refer it to spiritual inspiration ; yet his memory at the time |
must have been quite collected and clear, since the story and j
incidents are correctly told. j (
Mr. and Miss Dietz, Mrs. Weldon, Miss Elene Webster, Madame j
Scbneegaus, Mrs. Nosworthy, Mr. Earnest Lietkins, Miss Dickson, j
Miss Evans, Miss Leslie-Younge, and others, will take part in the |
soiree at the Cavendish Rooms on Wednesday, April 2nd.
Mr. Eglinton’s Mediumship,—Dr. T. L. Nichols, of 32, Fopstone- j 1
road, Earl’s-court, London, writes:—“ I think Mr. Willie Eglinton will | (
be pleased to have it announced in your columns that he will return i |
from South Africa to London in May, but does not intend to be longer a j)
‘professional’ medium, but to establish himself in his proper pro- jj
fession as surgeon-dentist. His gifts will not be lost by this means, but i j
may become more available and important.” j (
SPIRITUALISM IN LANCASHIRE.
In the course of the quarterly report of the Lancashire Association
| of Spiritualists, it is stated:—
“It is gratifying to know that your committee has just passed
through a very successful winter session. The objects of your propa¬
ganda have been more widely disseminated. The Midlands Committee
| have taken up vigorously the system of your work, and bids fair to
become a powerful sister organisation. The North of England Con¬
ference Committee is being revived, and may be expected to take prac¬
tical shape very shortly ; and, in fact, in all parts of the kingdom your
system of work and organisation is looked upon with exceeding favour.
Although trade has been and is in a very depressed state, yet the
meetings held in the district continue to attract an average audience.
We feel a great reform can be made in Sunday lectures amongst the
various societies in the district. United efforts and good speakers will
win our way to be known as having a good and attractive platform.
Liverpool has already entered into a scheme with you to supply its
platform with good speakers. It has now been in operation one
month, and the society is highly satisfied. If this were carried into
operation generally a fund would be so placed at your disposal as to
enable you to enter into engagements with the best speakers, and also
with gentlemen of ability connected with other movements, but who
are favourable to our principles. These suggestions are worthy of
your careful and mature consideration, inasmuch as such policy will
! help our movement to attain a more dignified and satisfactory position
j than it has hitherto enjoyed.
“ During the quarter now passed 156 meetings have been held under
your auspices. . . . The return lists for the quarter show a slight
falling off in membership in comparison to last quarter; but the state
| of trade will account for this. Altogether your work is in an
exceedingly prosperous position, and, with continued work and unflag-
| ging energy, much more may be accomplished in the future than has
been even attempted in the past.”
HEALING BY SPIRIT POWER.
Waterville, N. Y., Dec. 30th, 1878.—News reached Waterville this
| morning of considerable excitement in Deansville, about what was said
J to be a remarkable cure that had just been effected in that village.
| The case, as reported, was so unaccountable that many regarded it as
j little short of a miracle, and the circumstances entire were so peculiar
that your correspondent has taken the pains to learn from David W.
Barton, the father of the sick girl, the story of the cure. The- parties
| concerned are reputable and well known, and are not Spiritualists. Mr.
i Barton says that his daughter Gertie, aged about fourteen years, has
] been sick for several months with a chronic disease of the: stomach,
which has baffled the physicians. Latterly she has been under the
care of Drs. Munger and Allen, of Waterville. For the past fortnight
I she has been running down, and has not taken any nourishment in nine
I days. Mrs. C. T. Pooler, wife of the ex-school commissioner, a lady
who claims to be a “Perfectionist” in religious matters, had inci¬
dentally remarked to her husband that she believed she could cure Miss
Barton. “Why don’t you do it ?” was the reply. _ “ The time has not
yet come,” said Mrs. Pooler. Yesterday, after the regular visit of the
physicians, Mrs. Pooler started up, and went to the house of Mr.
Barton, entering rather unceremoniously, and made her way into the
room where the sick daughter was in company with her nurse, Mrs.
Hatheway.
“ Jesus Christ has sent me here to cure you,” said Mrs. Pooler; “ do
you want to be cured P”
The somewhat wild appearance of the comer startled all parties in
the house, and the event, it was feared, would prove fatal to the
sick girl. Mrs. Pooler grasped the hands of the invalid, shook them
violently, and permeated her with what Mr. Barton terms “ mesmerism,”
or “ magnetism,” and, after the mesmeric flutter, told her to get up and
eat. Though she had not been able to take a particle of the most
simple nourishment for days, she roused, dressed herself, and has eaten
hearty meals since.
Miss Gertie is about the house to-day for the first time in some
months, has to-day eaten a hearty dinner, and is comparatively “a
well girl.” Her home has been visited by many to-day, but only a few
have been allowed to see the convalescent girl.
A leading Spiritualist remarked this afternoon that Mrs. Pooler
had effected the cure “ by the essence of Spiritualismbut there is
not one of the persons concerned but what is opposed to Spiritualism,
and denies any association with what are called spiritual manifesta¬
tions. The case is at least a remarkable one, as the decease of Miss
Gertie had been expected hourly—indeed, the rumour of her death had
reached Waterville yesterday. Dr. Munger states that the disease was
as above stated, but that the case is not more surprising than other cures
on record. He says her pulse was good yesterday, and that he made
the remark that all that was needed for her recovery was an ability to
take nourishment. The story of her recovery was not, in view of her
recent condition, credited in Waterville till the testimony of Mr. Barton
was secured. The case is on every one’s lips, and Mr. Barton is a happy
man, though at a loss to account for the sudden transition.— Correspon¬
dence of the Utica Herald,
Mr. J. W. Fletcher informs us that a celebration of the thirty-
first anniversary of modern Spiritualism will take place at the Cavendish
Rooms next Sunday by two services—one in the morning at eleven
o’clock, in which children will take part; and a second in the
evening at seven, at which many well-known speakers will be present,
and letters from prominent Spiritualists both at home and abroad
will be read. All are cordially invited to attend.
148
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 28, 1879.
THE EXPERIENCES OF A SEER.
The chapter on “ Second Sight” in the Rev. Charles 11
Beecher’s book on Spiritualism is chiefly devoted to the j i
singular and life-long experience of the Rev. Prof. Dr. C. | \
E. Stowe, of Hartford.- Prof. Stowe (now in Florida with j \
his wife) is a seer; he has all his life seen visions—some of | j
them actual spiritual beings, some mere phantoms, or sub- | j
jective creatures, depending, as he thinks, on the condition j
of his brain in childhood. His account of them is certainly j
curious. The professor says :— I
My childish steps were surrounded by a species of vision I
or apparition, so clear and distinct that I often found great j
difHqulty in discriminating between the forms of real life |
and these shifting shapes, that had every appearance of !
reality, except that they dissolved at the touch. All my
favourite haunts had their particular shapes and forms,
which it afforded me infinite amusement to watch, in their
varying movements.
Particularly at night, after I had gone to bed, and the (
candle was removed from my room, the whole atmosphere )
around my bed seemed like that which Raphael shadowed |
forth around his Madonna San Sisto—a palpitating crowd of
faces and forms, changing in dim and gliding quietude. I )
have often wondered whether any personal experience similar j |
to mine suggested to the artist this living background to j
this picture. For the most part these phantoms were >
agreeable to me, and filled me with dreamy delight. Some- j j
times distinct scenes or visions would rise before my mind, j \
in which I seemed to looked far beyond the walls of the | j
house, and see things passing wherein were several actors.
I remember one of these, which I saw very often, represent- | j
ing a venerable, old, white-headed man, playing on a violin, j j
He was always accompanied by a tall, magnetic woman, | !
dressed in a strange, outlandish costume, in which I parti- j j
cularly remarked a high fur cap of a peculiar form. As he j j
played, the woman appeared to dance, in time to the music. | j
Another scene which frequently presented itself to my eyes j
was that of a green meadow by the side of a lake of very j j
calm water. From a grove on one side of the lake would j
issue the miniature form of a woman, clothed in white, with j j
a wide golden girdle around her waist, and long black hair ! j
hanging down to her middle, which she constantly smoothed j |
down with both her hands, with gentle, rythmical move- j j
ments, as she approached me. At a certain point of approach j I
she always turned her back and began a rapid retreat to the j !
grove, and' invariably, as she turned, there appeared behind ! (I
her the image of a little misshapen dwarf, who pattered j j
after her with ridiculous movements which always made me I j
laugh. Night after night during a certain year of my life j ] I
this pantomime never failed to follow the extinction of the j |
candle, and was to me a never-failing source of delight.
One thing was peculiar about these forms—they appeared ! j
to cause a vibration of the great central nerves of the body, j 11
as when a harpstring is struck. So I could feel in myself j
the jar of the dwarf’s pattering feet, the soft rhythmic move- ' j j
ments of the little woman stroking down her long hair, the ! j I
vibration of the violin, and the steps of the dancing old j j
woman. Nobody knew of this still and hidden world of j j
pleasure which was thus nightly opened to me.
My mother used often to wonder, when, hours after she j
had put me to bed, she would find me lying perfectly quiet j
with my eyes widely and calmly open. Once or twice I j j j
undertook to tell her what I saw, and was hushed up with i j
“ Nonsense, child ! there hasn’t been anybody in the room, j !
You shouldn’t talk so ” . . . One peculiarity of these | j
appearances was that certain of them seemed like a sort of j
genis loci—shapes belonging to certain places. The appa- j j
rition of the fairy woman with the golden girdle appeared ! j
only in a certain room, where I slept one year, and which I j j
had across one of its corners a sort of closet called a buffet, j j j
From this buffet the vision took its rise; and when my j j |
parents moved to another house it never appeared again. j j
A similar event in my shadow-world had marked our j j
coming to my grandfather’s to live. The old violin-player | !
and his wife had for a long time been my nightly enter- j j
tainers, but the first night after we were established in the j I
apartments given us for our use by Aunt Lois, I saw them i' ^
enter as they usually did, seeming to come right through
the wall of the room. They, however, surveyed the apart¬
ment with a sort of confused, discontented movement, and
seemed to talk to each other with their backs to me ; finally
I heard the old woman say, “We can’t stay here ; ” and
immediately I saw them passing through the hall of the
house. I saw after them as clearly as if the wall had
dissolved, and given my eyes a vision of all out-doors. They
went to my grandfather’s wood-pile and looked irresolutely
round; finally they mounted on the pile and seemed to sink
gradually through it and disappear. I never saw them
afterwards.
But another of the companions of my solitude was more
constant to me. This was the form of a young boy, about
my own age, who for a year past had frequently come to me
at night, and seemed to look lovingly upon me, and with
whom I used to have a sort of social communion, without
words, in a manner far more perfect than human language.
I thought to him, and in return I received silent demon¬
strations of sympathy and fellowship from him. I called
him Harvey, and used, as I lay looking in his face, mentally
to tell him many things about the books I read, the games
I played, and the childish joys and griefs I had; and in
return he seemed to express affection and sympathy, by a
strange communication, as lovers sometimes talk to each
other by distant glances.
To the author’s inquiry whether these visions were subject
to his (Prof. Stowe’s) volition, the reply was :—
“ Never, in the slightest degree.”
“ Have you ever seen and touched departed friends ? ”
“ Yes, I have seen H., and felt his hand in my own.”
MESMERISING WITH THE ELECTRIC LIGHT.
For some years past Dr. Charcot, an eminent medical
professor, has been giving, at the Asylum of La Salpetriere,
Paris, extra official courses of clinical lectures on the ner¬
vous maladies with which his work is so largely con¬
cerned. These weekly lectures have been highly popular,
and special interest has been excited this year, as the
professor has taken up questions connected with somnam¬
bulism and animal magnetism, a class of phenomena which
have, perhaps, been too much in the hands of charlatans
hitherto, and the truth about which has been largely mixed
with error and absurdity. Reporting the professor’s experi¬
ments to La Nature, Dr. Cartaz considers he has given
positive demonstration that somnambulism, catalepsy, &c.,
are among the numerous forms of hysteria.
Dr. Charcot showed that certain hysteric persons could be
easily thrown, under certain conditions, into such states.
Thus, a patient is placed before an intense light—&y., the
electric—and requested to look at it. In a few seconds or
minutes she becomes motionless in a state of catalepsy. The
eyes are fixed, the limbs are supple, and will keep any
position given them. In this state physiognomy seems to
reflect to some extent the expressions of the gestures : if the
limbs be put in a threatening attitude, the face darkens; if
the fingers be joined on the lips as if to wave a kiss, the face
becomes smiling and open ; but beyond such modifications
from attitude the patient remains impassive, fixed, and
insensible to the outer world. If the luminous beam be now
interrupted with a screen or by closing the eyelids, the cata¬
lepsy suddenly gives place to a state of lethargy or somnam¬
bulism. The patient falls on her back, her neck being
stretched, her breathing loud (accompanied by slight hiccup),
the eyes convulsed, with all the symptoms of the beginning
of a hystero epileptic attack.
On being called loudly, she will rise and come to the
person calling, will perform at request various combined
movements, as writing, sewing, &c., and sometimes answer
questions, all the time being in complete anaesthesia. Other
agencies besides light will bring on those crises—e.g., they
may be produced by sound ; and to illustrate this Dr. Charcot
procured a gigantic tuning-fork, giving a very deep note, and
sounded it when one of the patients was seated on the reson¬
ance case; she soon fell into catalepsy. The somnambulist
state is easily dissipated—e.g., by blowing in the face. One
notable experiment of Dr. Charcot proved that the two
M a rch 28, 1879
149
THE SPI
states—catalepsy and lethargy—could exist simultaneously
in one person.
The patient being putin the former state is made lethargic
on one side by crossing the eye of that side or shutting off
the luminous ray from it with a screen ; this side (say the
left) has then no longer the property which the right has of
maintaining any given attitude in the limbs. A peculiar
muscular hyperexcitability (as Dr. Charcot further shows)
appears with the lethargy. By gently pressing or rubbing
a muscle it can be made to contract immediately; and on
pressing the trunk of a nerve, the muscle to which it passes
will contract. In this way may be produced those various
facial changes which Dr. Duchenne, of Boulogne, has ob¬
tained with electricity. The nature of the nervous disorders
in question is far from being adequately known as yet, and
Dr. Charcot does not offer any scientific explanations. It is
important that exact observations should be accumulated,
and the precise conditions of the phenomena, their modifi¬
cations under such and such causes, &c., be determined.—
The Times.
SPONTANEOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
BY ELIZA BOUCHER.
The following two narratives I met with in the Hon.
Grantley Berkeley’s Life and Recollections. The author is,
I believe, still living, and is one of the younger sons of the
late Earl Berkeley, of Berkeley Castle, Gloucestershire. It
was in the kitchen, at Cranford (one of the family residences,
and adjoining Hounslow Heath), that the author and his
brother witnessed the following phenomenon.
The strong points which make the narrative particularly
worthy of notice are, first, the fact that the apparition
was seen by two persons at the same time; secondly, the
absence of excitement or suggestion; thirdly, that coming
from a non-Spiritualistic source, it corroborates and illus¬
trates the Spiritualistic theory of the gradual and sometimes
interrupted formation of the spirit body ; and fourthly, that
the gliding motion of the figure precisely corresponds with
the ancients’ description of the movements of their Lemurs,
and shows, therefore, the wonderful similarity which exists
between the records of this class of natural though some¬
what rare and inexplicable phenomena.
Premising that the rule of the house was that all servants
should be in bed by ten o’clock, that himself and brother
were on the eve of a midnight expedition in search of
poachers, “ well armed, in no mood to be nervously excited,
and little inclined to be afraid of anything,” the author
proceeds: “We passed by the still-room, intending, by
crossing the kitchen and going through the scullery, to reach
the courtyard by the back way. The large old house was as
still as death when my hand turned the handle of the
kitchen door, which partially admitted me to the room, at
the bottom of the long table which—starting from between
the entrance where I was, and the door of exit to the
scullery—ran up, to my left in its full length to the great
fireplace and tall, expansive kitchen screen. The screen
stood to the right of the fireplace as I looked at it, so that a
large body of glowing embers in the grate threw a steady,
distinct glare of red light throughout the entire of the large
apartment, making the smallest thing visible, and falling
full on the tall figure of a woman, divided from me only by
the breadth of the bottom of the table. She was dressed,
or seemed to bo dressed, as a maid-servant, with a sort of
poke bonnet and a dark shawl drawn or pinned tightly across
her breast. On my entrance she slowly turned her head to
look at me, and as she did so every feature ought to have
stood forth in the light of the fire, but I at once saw that
there was beneath the bonnet an indistinctness of outline
not to be accounted for.
“ Holding the door open with my left hand, with the right
against the post, I addressed to my brother, who was behind
me, simply the word ‘ Look.’ As I uttered this the figure
seemed to commence gliding, rather than proceeding by steps,
slowly on up the kitchen towards the fireplace, while I
lowered my right arm from the post, and turned to let my
brother in, then closed the door, locked it, and put the key
in my pocket. In reply to me my brother said, ‘ I see her ;
there she goes.’
RITUALIST.
!lt I had not told him what I had seen; therefore could in
I no way have suggested the idea he seemed to entertain.
u After I had thus locked the door, on turning round there
| was no woman to be seen, so I asked my brother whither she
I had gone. He instantly replied, ‘ Up the kitchen towards
| the screen.’ ‘ Come on then,’ I cried; ‘ let’s have some fun
! and catch her to see who it is.’
“ Our impression was that it was one of the maid-servants
i sitting up long after the usual hours, and we at once pro-
i ceeded, each taking a separate corner of the screen, and
| meeting on the side next the fire—but there was nothing
! there! Astonished at this, we then commenced a minute search
| of the kitchen, looked up the chimney and beneath the table,
i into the oven, and into the drawers ; in short, into every nook
! and corner that could have held a rat. There was no living
| thing in the kitchen but ourselves. The windows were fast,
| and so high in the walls that even with the aid of the dresser
| no one could have reached them. The door by which we
| had entered was locked, and the key in my custody ; and the
j only other door into the scullery we found locked, and the
I key on the side with us. The form resembled no one we had
! ever known. It came to indicate no treasure, nor to point to
| any spot of perpetrated crime; it came we knew not why, and
i went we know not whither, and the only rumour of a ghost
| we had ever heard arose from an occurrence that happened
| many years before to my father.”
This occurrence the author proceeds to narrate. It relates
! to the mysterious disappearance of a figure from a court-
j yard adjoining the kitchen into the cellars, but with his
; usual candour and accuracy he adds that there was a possi-
! bility that it might have been a “ follower ” of one of the
| | servants, who watched the entrance while the cellar was
| j being searched, and whose escape was consequently facilitated
| I by them.
The second occurrence, which also happened in the experi-
! ence of the same author, points to the conclusion that, under
| | certain conditions during sleep, the soul is temporarily freed
i 11 from its connection with the body, and enabled to communi-
| | cate with those for whom it has a strong spiritual affinity,
j j I give it also in the author’s own words ; he says :—“ I had
j i been asleep some time when there appeared to come to my
j j bedside a lady whom I had known very well, and she seemed
j | to speak to me on a particular occurrence. She did not look
1| on me as she had done of late years, after her marriage,
with melancholy eyes and a handsome face pallid with
regret, but she came or seemed to come in the freshness of
her early youth; her eyes lustrously bright indeed, but
softly and sweetly expressive, denoting a heart at rest, or if
not quite at rest, enjoying the calm confidence of first affec¬
tion. She was in a white muslin dress, precisely like one I
had seen her wear, with a gold tiara on her forehead. What
| she said to me matters very little to others; in my sleep,
! I however, I thought that after hearing from her lips what she
| came to declare I informed her ‘ that she was but a vision
| j created by sleep, sent to mock me with sweet and bitter
| | recollections, and that in the morning I should set it all
III down to distempered imagination.’ She was not angry
I with me, but smiling as in her happiest days ; then holding
up her hand as if to draw my attention, she sat down on
I the foot of the bed, leaned on her arm, and regarding me
i with a look of peculiar intelligence pointed to the place
I where she had rested. She disappeared, and I awoke, and
sat up in bed. The figure and the dream, cn the instant,
I made an impression on me, and so simultaneously did she
| fade away as I started up that I instantly left my bed, lit a
| candle at the lamp close at hand, and in two steps examined
the place where the phantom had seemed to rest. There
was a double indentation there, as if a weight had sunk on
the bed in one place, and in the other as evident a mark as
| any hand could have made when supporting a leaning form.
As, with the light in my hand, I stood in amazement over
j|| the spot, I distinctly saw the hollows that were there
II gradually rise up and fill out, so that in a moment, and as I
looked upon them, the bed became on its surface as smooth
j as before.”
I cannot help thinking that were these two narratives
i more widely known they would soon occupy a high position
j in the history of psychological phenomena.
| Albion Villa, Fremantie-square, Bristol,
150
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 28, 1879.
NEW AND CURIOUS MANIFESTATIONS IN
PHILADELPHIA.
(To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”)
Sir,—Among the new manifestations in this city of
Philadelphia of a peculiar character, I will mention the new
phase of control over the organism of Mr. William B.
Powell, now residing at 422, North Eighth-street. It claims
to be effected by an Indian band. The old war-chiefs
“Tecumseh” and “ Wyonia” are announced as the leading
spirits connected with the band, and to give these new and
marvellous manifestations.
The spirit writes through this medium on paper, and on
the slate. The marks on the paper resemble those made
with a lead pencil; those on the slate are white, like writing
done with a slate pencil, although neither are held or used
by the medium. His fingers are moved over the paper or
slate, sometimes in contact, at other times at a distance,
and plain legible writing is produced under some scientific
law unknown to us. It sometimes appears just as legibly on
the opposite side of a closed double slate, when he passes his
index finger over the outer slate; his finger is not always in
contact with the cover. On opening the slate, where
previously there was only a clean surface, we find legible
words and short sentences.
It is known when Mr. Powell is being entranced. His
eyes begin to stare, they are nearly fixed, and look forwards
and downwards ; there is no motion of the head while he is
under this influence, except when the Indian “ grunt ” is
well imitated. When the writing is going on, every word
terminates in a grunt. Tecumseh’s is of a bass sound,
Wyonia’s more of a tenor. The right hand is gradually
raised to a level with his shoulder, then closing all his fingers
except one, which stands out straight and rigid, the latter
is held there till all the persons in the circle touch' it or
handle it; then the writing commences.
I enclose you a sample which was written under full gas¬
light, in his own house, in the presence of witnesses. The
paper was pinned on the wall some time before a question
was asked, to which the answer—-“Me. Yes”—was written.
While the medium was pointing his finger towards the
paper, his feet, by actual measurement, stood seven feet out
from the wall.
Some very wonderful tests were also written there in my
presence on the slate, in answer to questions propounded
while Mr. Powell was entranced.
Solomon W. Jewett, D.M.
Philadelphia, Pa., Feb. 9th, 1879.
DEATH-ROPE REPENTANCE.
The demoralising effect of the doctrine of momentary
repentance atoning for a life of crime, was noticed by not a
few general newspapers, directly after the recent execution
of the murderer Peace.
The American Inter-Ocean has a Cleveland letter reporting
the last days of a murderer, Charles McGill, who shot his
mistrees, Mary Kelly, a year ago. With no word of
dispute or warning, he fired ten bullets into her bleeding
body, as she was so near him on a lounge that the powder
burned his hair as the first shot disfigured her beautiful face.
The Inter-Ocean reporter found him smoking a cigar and
talking of his crime in a cool and heartless manner, and
says:—
“ Instead of passing his last night on earth in restlessness
and horrible dwelling on the morrow, Charles R. McGill,
Mary Kelly’s murderer, spent most of the time in quiet
slumber. i It’s genuine sweet repose, too,’ stated the guard,
in answer to the question, and i McGill has repented, and is
satisfied that he will be saved through Christ.’
“ The Inter-Ocean correspondent accompanied the Rev. L.
Cooley, spiritual adviser of McGill, to his cell to-day, and
listened to fervent prayers by the gentleman and the con¬
demned. The latter then sung a hymn with a fine tenor
voice, and expressed his satisfaction that Christ had died for
sinners, and he among the chiefest might be saved. The
prisoner viewed the scaffold, and expressed himself satisfied
with it. The remainder of the day was occupied conversing
with counsel and his brothers, and reading the Bible.”
! SPIRITUALISM AND THE MATERIALISTIC PHILOSOPHY
OF GERMANY.
BY E, T. WAKEFIELD.
In a work just published, The Evolution of Man, from the
German of Professor Haeckel, p. 99, there occurs the follow-
i ing passage :—
“It is most unfortunate that the imagination of this
| gifted naturalist” [Mr. Wallace] “has since become diseased,
and that he now only plays the part of a Spiritualist in the
spiritualistic society of London.”
That so weak a statement should be put forward by a
| writer advocating a “ new philosophy ” is unfortunate, for
it is difficult to avoid drawing the practical inference that
an author so egregiously wrong on a subject with which
| many millions of educated men and women are familiar, is
i not equally wrong in his inferences as to other subjects with
| which they are not well acquainted.
Allow me to ask the learned professor: Who has the
most diseased imagination, or evinces the greatest credulity—
he whose belief rests on the broad, solid basis of fact now
laid by Spiritualists, as compared with which the professor’s
too often fine-spun inferences are as airy nothings, or the
I man who can believe or imagine that many millions of
i educated minds can at one and the same time all be insane
on one subject, and perfectly sane on every other?
Let the professor remember that nine-tenths of those
who believe the facts of Spiritualism, believe after investi¬
gation ; and nine-tenths of those who disbelieve them,
disbelieve without investigation.
As a question of weight of evidence, the belief in alleged
facts that follows investigation in one person outweighs the
belief of a thousand formed without investigation.
One is manly conviction—the honest desire to know the
truth, with courage to profess it; the other I will not
characterise, beyond observing that the best of it is no
better than the belief of the unthinking, following herd.
As I regard the attitude of the spirits of German philo¬
sophy of the present day towards these incontrovertible but
most inconvenient facts of Spiritualism, the long-ago
recorded cry of disquieted spirits forcibly occurs to me :—
“ Why art thou come to torment us before our time ? ”
| For assuredly these great facts of Spiritualism lay the axe
! to the root of German scepticism.
Its high priests of to-day may never investigate and
never believe; but the facts remain, and the men, passing
away, will be succeeded by others who will believe ; and it
is at the hands of such men, worthy to give it, that great
men like Mr. Wallace will receive their due reward.
i Hanover Lodge, Harrow-on-the-Hill, March 21, 1879.
| THE WAKEFULNESS AND DREAMS OF OLD PERSONS.
When age begins, the quantity of sound sleep lessens,
s | In extreme age the tendency to longer sleep returns, and
II part of the day is past in somnolency, the more necessary
(| that the rest at night is frequently broken.
(| The celebrated Be Moivre slept twenty hours out of the
?! twenty-four, and Thomas Parr latterly slept away by far
) | the greater part of his existence.
s | Dr. Rush observes of the wakefulness of old people :—
11 “ Such is the excitability of the system in the first stages
III of old age, that there is no pain so light, no anxiety so
(] trifling, and no sound so small, as not to produce wake-
{/1 fulness in old people. It is owing to their imperfect sleep
| y| that they are sometimes as unconscious of the moment of
I! their passing from a sleeping to a waking state, as young
| and middle-aged people are of the moment in which they
pass from a waking to a sleeping state. Hence we so often
| hear them complain of passing sleepless nights. This, no
j doubt, frequently is the case; but I am satisfied, from the
result of an inquiry made upon the subject, that they often
sleep without knowing it, and that their complaints in the
morning of the want of sleep arise from ignorance, without
•| the least intention to deceive.”
Dreaming is universal among old people. It probably
i has to do with their imperfect sleep.—Er. Herbert Mayo,
Maech 28, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
151
THE PRACTICE OF CREMATION IN GREAT BRITAIN. i
The following correspondence has just "been issued from the Home 11
Office:— i 1
“ The Secretary to the Cremation Society to the Right Hon. R. A. Cross, j I
fyc., Secretary of State for the Home Department. j \
“ 11, Argyll-street, London, Feb. 3,1879. i j
“Sir,—Referring to the published report of the proceedings on the bj
occasion of a deputation which waited upon you relative to the esta- i J
blishment of a Crematory at Woking, I am instructed by the executive j
body of the Council of the Cremation Society, for which I act, a list of j
which Council is herewith attached, to lay before you the following j
facts;,
“ The Cremation Society of England was founded in 1874, with purely |1
public objects, and not for gain, by a number of scientific and other gen- i1
tlemen, on the basis of the following declaration, which has been very j!
numerously signed:—
'* Cremation Society.—Cremation, having now been performed with
perfect success, a society has been constituted on the basis of the
following declaration, which has been influentially signed:—‘ We dis- i
approve the present custom of burying the dead, and desire to substitute
some mode which shall rapidly resolve the body into its component
elements by a process which cannot offend the living, and shall render
the remains absolutely innocuous. Until some better method is devised
we desire to adopt that usually known as cremation.’ A great number 1
of adhesions to this were afterwards sent in, and subscriptions were I
received. The earliest duty of the Council was to ascertain whether 1
cremation could be legally performed in this country, and a case was j
drawn up and submitted to eminent counsel. A copy of opinion is en-
closed herewith, and being in favour of the proposed reform, the Council j
decided to go on. A still more decidedly favourable opinion was given |
in writing, although unofficially, by Lord Selborne to one of the Council. !
In 1875 it was proposed to erect a building for the performance of the
rite, and a large sum of money was subscribed for the purpose. A i
piece of ground was offered to the society in the Great Northern |
Cemetery of London, and a building would have been at once erected
had the bishop of the diocese not objected to its establishment in
consecrated ground. The history of the society at this stage will be
seen in the report sent herewith. Soon after this it appeared that
in several parts of Europe and in America, cremation was becoming
permissive, and several cremations took place in Milan, Dresden, and
other places. Still later on cremation was permitted in Gotha. A
paper descriptive of the systems in use in Europe and America also
accompanies this communication. This paper also furnishes a list of
the modern cremations up to that date. The last cremation at Gotha
was attended by a great many of the clergy. A short translation
from a journal describing this ceremony is enclosed. After much
seeking for a secluded yet accessible spot, a piece of ground not far
from the Cemetery at Woking was obtained, atnd the Council of the
society thought this a suitable site for a cemetery pyre, as being
near the Necropolis, and having a service of trains suitable for the
conveyance of the dead. It may here be repeated that the society is
not in any way a trading society, but simply a scientific society. In
order that the scope and aim of the society may be fully understood,
I enclose a copy of No. 1 of the Transactions of the Society, in which
are set forth its rules and regulations. I am further instructed to say
that some of the members of Council will be happy to wait upon you, if
agreeable to your wish, with further information, or for the purpose of
learning your views in the matter of their further procedure at any time
you may appoint. The society have throughout aimed at carrying on
what they beheve to be hygienic reform, with thoughtful consideration
of the sentiments and interests of other persons concerned, and they are
anxious at this stage, as at all others, to proceed in the same spirit.
“ W. Eassie, C.E.,
“ Engineer and Secretary to the Society.'*
Provisional Council of the Cremation Society. — Sir Henry
Thompson, London, chairman, pro tern; the Right Hon. the Earl of
Mar; Watkin Williams, Esq., M.P.; Mrs. Crawshay, Merthyr; Miss
Frances Power Cobbe, London; the Rev. H. R. Haweis, London; the
Rev. Brooke Lambert, Tamworth ; the Rev. Charles Voysey, London;
the Rev. James Long, Church missionary, Calcutta; the Rev. Maurice
Davies, M.A., London; the Rev. E. Fisher, M.A., London ; the Rev.
W. W. Jackson, Fellow and Tutor of Exeter College, Oxford; the'Rev.
M. Kirkham, Hampstead; G. Du Maurier, Esq., Hampstead; F. D.
Mocatta, Esq., London; John Marshall, Esq., J.P., London; E. J.
Welby, B.A., Trinity College, Cambridge ; Geo. J. Wild, Esq., LL.D.,
barrister, London; Dr. Humphrey Sandwith, C.B., London; T. Spencer
Wells, Esq., London; Ernest Hart, Esq., London; Chas. F. J. Lord,
Esq., Hampstead; Alex. Strahan, Esq., London: Fredk. Lehmann,
Esq., London, hon. treasurer; Geo. Hawkins, Esq., London; W. Shaen,
Esq., London; Major Vaughan, Army and Navy Club, London ; Major
H. H. Godwin Austen, London ; Professor Cairnes, Blackheath; Francis
Galton, Esq*, F.R.S., London ; Anthony Trollope, Esq., London; J. E.
Millais, Esq., R.A., London; John Tenniel, Esq., London; M. Berke¬
ley Hill, Esq., London; Tom Taylor, Esq., London; Higford Bun,
Esq., Reading ; Titus Salt, Esq., J.P., Saltaire; Dr. Priestley, London;
and Henry Leslie, Esq., London.
“ The Tinder Secretary of State to the Secretary to the Cremation Society.
“ Whitehall, Feb. 7th, 1879.
“ Sir,—I am directed by the Secretary of State to acknowledge the
receipt of your letter of the 3rd instant, and enclosures, explaining the
objects of the society calling itself the Cremation Society, and giving
the names of the principal members constituting tho Council of the
society; and with reference to the wish conveyed in your letter of the
Council of the society to see the Secretary of State on the subject of the
objections in the way of carrying out the design of the society, I am to
inform you that the Secretary of State will shortly make an appointment
for the purpose of receiving such a deputation.
“A. F. 0. Liddell.
“W. Eassie, Esq., C.E., 11, Argyll-street, W.”
“ The Assistant Tinder Secretary of State to the Secretary to the
Cremation Society.
« Whitehall, Feb. 21, 1879.
“ Sir,—With reference to your letter and enclosures of the 3rd inst.,
I am directed by Mr. Secretary Cross to request that you will bring
I j before the gentlemen forming the Council of the Association, calling
\ | itself the Cremation Society, the following observations on the subject of
> i the introduction into this country of the practice of burning the remains
| of the dead, now generally known as the practice of cremation, which it
j | appears that the above society has been organised to promote. Mr.
| Cross does not propose to enter into the question whether or not the
| system of cremation is in accordance with the feelings of the public,
| or with the respect due by law to dead bodies; it is sufficient for him
{I to point out that it is a system which, in this country, is entirely novel,
j | and that whether or not the law forbids it altogether, the public interest
|! requires that it should not be adopted until many matters of great social
) I import have been duly considered and provided for. Burial can be fol-
| j lowed by exhumation, but the process of cremation is final; the result
j j of the practice, therefore, would be, that it would tend, in cases where
I, death had been occasioned by violence or poison, to defeat the ends of
j j justice; there will no longer be an opportunity for that examination
j | which in so many cases has led to the detection and punishment of
j j crime. The practice of ordinary burial has become interwoven with the
j i legislative arrangements of the country, and is closely connected with
I various safeguards respecting death, with the statistics of death, and
j with the evidence of death. The minister buries a corpse on the pro-
( i duction of a certificate of death and its cause, the burial ensures the
) I certificate, the certificate ensures the certainty of death, and is a check
] i against foul practices. Again, the form in which the certificate is pro-
| i duced to the minister is that given by the registrar, who issues the cer-
) | tificate in exchange for that of the medical attendant, and thus
I j the statistical object is secured. Further, the certificate of burial is
j | in all legal proceedings the proper and most economical form of the
) j evidence of death. All these objects would be frustrated by the practice
111 of cremation, unless that practice were in its turn surrounded by legis-
| lative provisions analogous to those which surround burial. I am,
; j j therefore, to acquaint you, for the information of the promoters of the
j j i Cremation Society, that Mr. Cross cannot acquiesce in the continuance
IJ j of the undertaking of the society to carry out the practice of cremation,
]) | either at their works now in progress at Woking or elsewhere in this
| | country, until Parliament has authorised such a practice by either a
j | j special or a general Act, and that if the undertaking is persisted in it
I) will be his duty either to test its legahty in a court of law, or to apply
i (I to Parliament for an Act to prohibit it until Parliament has had an
! I \ opportunity of considering the whole subject. “ Godfrey Lushington.
j t “ The Secretary to the Cremation Society,
I (I 11, Argyll-street, London, W.”
> “ The Secretary to the Cremation Society to the Right Honourable R. A.
t Cross, Her Majesty's Secretary of State, Home Department.
“ 11, Argyle-street, London, Feb. 28, 1879.
i “ Sir,—I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
referring to the practice of cremation, and beg to state that I will, as
j soon as possible, call a meeting of the Council of the Cremation Society,
I and lay it before them, after which I will take the first opportunity of
| communicating to you the results of that meeting. “ W. Eassie.”
Deputation to the Home Office,
i A deputation, consisting of the Committee of the Council of the
Cremation Society of England, Sir Henry Thompson, Mr. Ernest Hart,
Mr. T. Spencer Wells, Mr. W. Robinson, and Mr. W. Eassie, C.E.,had
j an interview on March 20th with Mr. Cross at the Home Office, for the
purpose of discussing the principles on which they propose to estabhsh
1 cremation in the United Kingdom.—The deputation stated that the
I society had been instituted for the purpose of ascertaining the value,
and promoting inquiries into the subject of cremation. They did not
desire to interfere with the religious belief of the people, and their
motives, primarily, were of a purely sanitary, social, and scientific
character. But while they admitted that there was manifest prejudice
against the innovation, nevertheless they ventured to predict that the
time would come when cremation would, from a hygienic point of view,
i i be the recognised system of dealing with the dead. Besides many other
[ defects of the present mode of interment, it was notorious that burial
) I grounds were both iniurious to the health of the inhabitants around and
I j largely contributed to the pollution of wells and streams throughout the
| country. In one burial ground alone in the north of London it was
| computed that 400,000 bodies had been stacked upon the top of each
I other.—Mr. Cross, in reply, suggested that a Bill might be brought into the
i House of Lords, so as to determine the matter upon a legal basis, and
I clear the ground of any doubt as to the wisdom of establishing crema-
I tion. He thought that the best way of dealing with the matter, which
I was one of no ordinary difficulty.—The deputation agreed, in deference
) i to the wishes expressed by Mr. Cross, not to proceed further at present
II with the erection of more machinery until the question raised could be
i settled by discussion in Parliament upon the proposed new system of
i registration.
j | As the matter of cremation has been raised in Parliament, it may not
11 be uninteresting to state what has actually been done at Woking. The
j | crematory chamber of the proposed establishment of the Cremation
11 Society of London having been completed under the supervision of Pro-
fessor Gorini, of Lodi—the inventor of the system adopted—and the
U2
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 28, 1879.
immediate direction of his assistant, Signor Carlo Zeda, of Milan, its
practical capabilities have just been tested in ihe presence of two or
three members of the 'Cremation Society, including Mr. Wm. Eassie,
C.E., the secretary; Professor Gorini, Signor Zeda, and two friends
of the last-named gentlemen. A mass of flesh and bone, of the weight
of one hundred and fifty pounds, was introduced into the chamber, the
fire having been lighted about twenty minutes before the flames were
turned on and made to act upon it.
The desired and expected effect was entirely attained, and the appa¬
ratus worked admirably. The degree of heat attained was said by
Professor Gorini to be about six hundred centigrade degrees, which is
over a thousand degrees Fahrenheit. In about twenty minutes after
the mass had been enveloped in flames all the softer or fleshy portions
had nearly disappeared, and the gases resulting from their decompo¬
sition came actively into play as fuel for the consumption of the
remainder. The attention of the bystanders was naturally directed to
the detection of unpleasant odours produced by the process of combus¬
tion, or other disagreeable^; but none could be discovered, from the
simple fact that the intense heat within the furnace, upon opening any
or all of the air-holes on the side of the chamber, produced such an
in-draught that the escape of any obnoxious odour or gas was impos¬
sible. Nor was there smoke of any kind from the tall chimney. Not
only for the purpose of consuming the ordinary fuel smoke, but for
intercepting the unconsumed products of the body, gaseous or otherwise,
there is placed a little above the base of the chimney, within it, a grate,
full of burning coke, which performs its intended office most effectually.
Certainly the experiment could give physical annoyance to no one.
LAW INTELLIGENCE.
HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE.—QUEEN’S BENCH DIVISION.
(Sittings in Banco, before the Lord Chief Justice and Mr. Justice
Manisty.)
THE QUEEN V. MORTIMER AND ANOTHER.
In this case a rule had been obtained by Mr. Leigh Parry, on behalf
of Mr. Weldon and Sir Henry de Bathe, calling on Mr. James Mortimer,
the editor and proprietor of the London Figaro, and Mr. William Joseph
Brown, the publisher of that journal, to show cause why a criminal
information should not be filed against them. The alleged libel was
contained in a letter written by Mrs. Weldon, and which appeared in the
Figaro of January 22nd as one of a series of letters on the subject of
the lunacy laws, and formed a narrative of her own experiences, and
of the attempts made by her husband to put her in a lunatic asylum.
When the rule came to be argued Mr. Mortimer appeared in person to
show cause on his own behalf and that of his co-defendant, assuming
all responsibility for the publication of the matter complained of, and
making a statement of facts which, he submitted, entitled him to the
merciful consideration of the Court, and which their lordships directed
he should embody in an affidavit.
The matter now argued came before the Court, when Mr. Serjeant
Parry (with whom was Mr. Montagu Williams) appeared in support of
the rule, and said that Mr. Mortimer was present, and had, he believed,
filed the affidavits required. Mr. Mortimer, in showing cause, read the
following affidavit:—
“ 1. That until a few weeks past I was not personally acquainted with
Mrs. Weldon, and I only knew her name in connection with reports of
certain lunacy proceedings in which she had been concerned.
“ 2. That she wrote to me in October last a letter thanking me for
publishing in the London Figaro an editorial article in reference to the
present condition of the lunacy laws, and urging the necessity for their
revision. She subsequently proposed to me (still without any personal
acquaintance between us) to write for publication in the Figaro a narra¬
tive of her own Case, and the attempts alleged to have been made to
incarcerate her in a private lunatic asylum. The general circumstances
had been frequently brought before the public notice, and from what I
had heard of Mrs. Weldon I thought, not only that she was entitled to
submit her own statement to the public, but also that the facts were of
great interest and public benefit in connection with the working of the
lunacy laws. I therefore consented to her letters appearing in the
London Figaro, subject to editorial supervision.
“3. In the course of the publication of Mrs. Weldon’s letters I
objected to and suppressed numerous passages which seemed to me to
be improper and unlawful, because they were not statements of facts,
but mere imputations of motives.
“ 4. During the month of January last I was pressed with work,
which temporarily absorbed almost my undivided attention, and I
entrusted the supervision of Mrs. Weldon’s letters to my assistant
editor. It therefore happened most unfortunately that the letter pub¬
lished on the 22nd January, in which the enumerated passages occur,
escaped my personal supervision.
“ 5. I did not read the enumerated letter until my attention was
directed to it by the published report of the application to the Court for
a criminal information against me.
“0. If I had seen the said passage in manuscript or proof I should
not have allowed it to appear in the London Figaro.
“ 7, In the London Figaro of the 19th February, being the first
number of the paper that went to press after I heard of the. application
for a criminal information, there appeared an article written by me,
which I declared on oath not to have been as an aggravation of the
offence complained of, but merely a defence of my motives in having
allowed numerous letters of Mrs. Weldon to be published in the columns
of the London Figaro. In that article I wrote and published the follow¬
ing words:—
I ‘ Up to the time of writing this paragraph, four days after the
hearing of the application, we have received no official notice of the
|) ] rule, and we therefore voluntarily declare that our sole object in pub-
| j | lishing Mrs. Weldon’s story has been and is ,to permit a defenceless
| ) woman, whom we sincerely believe to have been cruelly misrepresented
i 11 and ill-used, an opportunity of vindicating herself before the public.
[ j I We have had frequent interviews with Mrs. Weldon, and never have we
] | observed in her the slightest symptoms of insanity. Mrs. Weldon is,
111 ’ in fact, endowed with talents far above the average amongst ordinary
111 men or women, and if, in manifesting our sympathies for her by granting
i | her the hospitality of our columns, we have allowed her more freedom
I i than should have been accorded, we have her assurance that she has
I | only told the truth, and is prepared to substantiate it. As a matter of
; | course, we entertain no animosity towards the personages who are men-
! | tioned in Mrs. Weldon’s letters, and, as she herself states, we have felt
| | compelled to suppress some portions of her narrative. We utterly dis-
j | claim all malice in this publication, and we were actuated solely and
j i exclusively by a sense of public duty and the conviction that great
| | wrongs are perpetrated under the present lunacy laws of England.’
I “I declare on my oath that my intention in writing the above was not
j j in any manner to confirm or endorse the enumerated passages published
j | on January 22, but that my purpose was, on the contrary, to make
i | known to my readers that Mrs. Weldon alone was responsible for the
| j truth or falsity of her statements, my allusion referring only to the general
| J | tenor of Mrs. Weldon’s narrative, the publication of which had com-
I | menced in the Figaro of December 4, 1878, and had been continued
| j from week to week without interruption until this prosecution was
| instituted, when it was voluntarily suspended by me. I say upon my
11 oath that allusion was not made in the above article to the unenumerated
| passage, which I would have suppressed had I seen it previously to
| publication.
j “8. That the passages complained of did not appear as a statement
j of the paper, or as an editorial comment; but was part of a letter bearing
| the signature of Mrs. Weldon. I believed that Mrs. Weldon’s state-
| | i ments, written by herself and published under her signature, were
j | entirely her own, and would be accepted with due reservation, as made
III on her sole responsibility.
j 11 “ 9. Mr. Weldon and Sir Henry de Bathe are entire strangers to me,
j | and I do declare upon my oath that I am perfectly guiltless of any
11 sentiment of malice towards them.
| i j “10. That during the many years I have been a journalist no criminal
| | information has ever previously been filed against me.”
| | Having concluded reading his own affidavit, Mr. Mortimer said that
I j through some mistake of his Mr. Wm. Joseph Brown, the other
| | defendant, was not present, but he read his affidavit, which set forth
j I that he was not appointed the publisher of the London Figaro until July
! | 8th last. That he was a total stranger to the matter contained in the
j|| number of July 22nd, in which the article complained of as libellous
111 had appeared, and that he had no control over or interest in the publi-
I I cation of the London Figaro, save as a clerk under the order and
I j I direction of the proprietor.
Mr.' Mortimer having read the affidavits, said: My lords, I have
ill nothing more to add at present.
|| Mr. Serjeant Parry—I am sorry that I cannot concur on the part of
my clients in accepting the apology that has been made by Mr. Mor¬
timer, unless it is the decided opinion of the Court that I should do so ;
| I therefore ask your lordships to make the rule absolute. The libel
j complained of is of a most serious character as affecting the honour of
the two gentlemen I represent, against whom charges of the most painful
| nature have been made. The letter which formed the subject of the
j present proceedings was written by Mrs. Weldon, and couched in the
| following terms :—
<c My own version or opinion on the whole affair is that Mr. Weldon
j wanted to get an excuse for putting into his own pocket the money he
j had to allow me, while Sir H. de Bathe was glad to get a husband for
i his eldest daughter, a young lady of twenty, and Dr. Winslow was glad
to possess .£500 a year. Once in his asylum, I should have been soon
driven mad by tickling-. Mr. Weldon often said he could drive anyone
| mad in that way in five minutes ; and as it is easy to bribe anyone,
| especially lawyers, witnesses would easily be found to give evidence
| against me, so that my husband could obtain a divorce and marry Miss
| de Bathe, in case I did not die quickly enough, and I should be utterly
j ruined and made to disappear from the earth without my being able to
say a word in my own defence.”
I Now, at the time this was written Mrs. Weldon was in the possession
| of Tavistock House, and her husband was allowing her £1,000 a year
j since their separation. This libel had been most extensively circulated,
| and had caused great pain and annoyance both to Mr. Weldon and Sir
| Henry de Bathe. Mr. Mortimer had now apologised for its publication,
I but I must remind your lordships tha't he never did so until he came into
| Court. I would now call your lordships’ attention to the article which
| appeared in the Figaro of February 19th, and which Mr. Mortimer in
i his affidavit admits he wrote.
| The Lord Chief Justice—I cannot help saying I very much regret
| that that article was published. If Mr. Mortimer had taken his stand
j on the ground that he had not seen the letter complained of as libellous
| before it was published, and that it had been inserted without his know-
! j | ledge ; yet, although an editor is responsible for everything that appears
j-j in the paper he conducts, it would make all the difference on an applica-
| j | tion for a criminal information whether the publication of the libel was
I (I within his knowledge. The explanatory article makes the matter worse,
j 1 Mr. Serjeant Parry—No apology is made by Mr. Mortimer in that
i ) article, in which the writer said he had had several interviews with Mrs.
IJ • Weldon, and never discovered in her auy evidences of insanity.
|) The Lord Chief Justice—It was quite open to him to say that.
11 Mr. Sergeant Parry said that this statement by Mr. Mortimer gave
11 additional force to what Mrs. Weldon had published in his paper ; and,
|) | further, speaking of the hospitality he had extended to Mrs. Weldon in
I (i his columns, said, if “we have allowed her more freedom than should
THE SPIRITUALIST.
153
Maech 28, 1879.
have been accorded, we have her assurance that she only told the truth,
and is prepared to substantiate it.” That was the language used by the
defendant in reference to a very gross, and, as the Lord Chief Justice
had called it, a “ flagitious libel.”
The Lord Chief Justice—Mr. Mortimer says in his article: “ Our
sole object in publishing Mrs. Weldon’s story has been, and is, to permit
a defenceless woman, whom we most sincerely believe to have been
cruelly misrepresented and ill-used, an opportunity of vindicating her¬
self before the public.” After such an article we have no alternative
but to make the rule absolute; and the less said about it at present the
better. But the rule will be made absolute against Mr. Mortimer only.
Mrs. Weldon (who occupied a seat at the back of the Court)—My lord,
may I be allowed 
The Lord Chief Justice—Oh! dear no!
Mrs. Weldon—I only wish to say that everything I have said is true.
Rule absolute for a criminal information against the defendant
Mortimer.
SUNDAY SERVICES AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.
After some introductory remarks by Mr. Desmond Fitz-G-erald and
the usual service, Mr. J. W. Fletcher began his inspirational lecture last
Sunday night at the Cavendish Rooms, London, upon “ Death in the
Transition Sphere, or the Beginning of Immortality.”
He said that it is impossible for a man to take the beauty, peace, and
enjoyment of the spirit world, while the duties and responsibilities of
this world are left unfulfilled. It is useless to say that the spirit can be
at rest, and at peace with all the world, while it retains the conscious¬
ness that its life-work has been a failure. Looking back through the
vista of time he sees the life work mapped, which had been, out clearly
and distinctly before him. He sees also the duties he has left un¬
performed standing before his eyes like some accusing angel, so it is
impossible for such a man to dream of happiness until he has returned
and endeavoured to conquer the unhappy past. There are many spirits
in the spirit world, noble, strong, and good, who, having failed to fulfil
all life’s duties, are prohibited from entering into the enjoyment awaiting
them, until these duties are performed. They are prohibited by the un¬
fulfilled demands of their own nature, and by that spiritual law which
holds them down to the sphere of life to which they belong, until they
have grown the wings of higher thoughts with which to rise into brighter
and holier regions. Each human being has the salvation which he or
she may earn; no more, no less. If he is barred out from the hap¬
piness of the higher life, it is not because God has forbidden him to
cross the boundary line between light and shadow, but because his
own condition unfits him for the enjoyment of that life, until he clearly
sees the mistakes he has made, and uses all opportunities to rectify
them. Looking into the world we see a-great dark shadow resting over
it; a shadow which fills the heart and the spirit with terror; which
follows the strong and weak, high and low, rich and poor, without dis¬
tinction, and this terror is the monster called “ Death.” The strong
grow weak in its presence, because it seems to take them from the world
of the known and the real into that of the (to them) unknown and un¬
real ; to give them only the shadow for the substance; to separate them
from all the heart holds dear; and, through their ignorance, they
tremble and grow pale as the hand of death falls upon them. When
men dare to violate human laws, they come within the reach of various
forms of punishment, and in cases of murder death is made the penalty.
When some poor soul has been swept out of the world in this manner,
man feels as if he has yielded up about all that he could, and God¬
fearing people sit quietly down in their homes, and feel they have done
their duty, and satisfied justice. But is this the truth? We are told in
the name of theology that death solves the puzzle of existence, and
either happiness and peace, or misery and punishment, will be the
ultimate. It may be because of the uncertainty of the question, it
may be because we have understood so little of the subject that
death seems so terrible to us; but greater than all else is the
thought that it is a bourne from which no traveller can
ever return. The suicide, longing for rest and peace, folds
his arms at last, and thinks to find it in death; perhaps the poet
induces the thought when he says “ Life is the goal and death the angel
that draws the bolt and lets the spirit free.” We see by the light of
Spiritualism that death is the angel which opens the door through
which the spirit can enter a higher and better life; but this method of
taking life is not the way to stop crime; on the contrary, it is just the
way to increase it. When men take the lives of those who violate their
laws, they are rendering themselves more subject to the evil natures of
the departed than when they were on the earth and walked the streets,
for then they could guard themselves against the criminals ; but when
their spirits—before their time—are sent out into the world of the
unknown, they can come back as they will. Many of the forms of
insanity that are in your midst are the result of the work of undeveloped
spirits whom you have sent to the other world before their mission in
this one had been accomplished. This fear of death has taken more
people into the theological heaven than would ever have got there by
any other means. The question is asked—Is death a necessity? Is
there a reason why people should die out of this world ? In the present
condition of society we answer in the affirmative; to live a natural life
in this world, as it is now constituted, would be an impossibility. None
of us are living up to our understanding of the laws of Nature, but
are constantly violating those laws, and then death comes in as a
natural consequence. It is said that “ the wages of sin are death,”
which means the “ consequence of sin is death; ” that every wrong
committed means death. St. Paul said, “I die daily,” mean¬
ing that he “ sinned ” daily, which is nothing more than a
degree of death. There are laws of the spirit as well as of the
body, of wldeh we must be mindful if we aim for the perfection of
life; instead of being controlled by our needs, we are too often led by
) | our wants and desires, and thereby our development, both physically
(| and spiritually, is limited. Every power we use, except for the highest
) I and grandest purpose possible for us to conceive, is a sin against our-
(i selves, and writes itself indelibly upon our life. It is in the light of
(l this sin that death follows; not as an avenger, but as a redeemer.
) I Death is indeed the sin of the age ; for if human beings lived true lives,
c! no death could possibly come. If you protect the life and requirements
(| of the body in which you live, as you pretend to care for your souls, the
I world would be much better, and heaven much nearer than it is now.
(| You heed every desire rather than every need which comes to the body,
(! and when your soul endeavours to aspire towards higher and better
| things, it finds itself dragged down by these self-same wants; a clean,
| healthy body begets a pure, noble spirit. The great law of supply and
i demand must be observed, for then you are living wholly in accordance
| with the law of compensation, and no death can follow. You see a
i young man rushing down the path of pleasure, plucking the fruit from
) i every tree he may pass, regardless of everything save that which may
I serve to gratify him for the moment. He is then cut off by death in the
I flower of his youth and manhood, while all the possibilities of his life
| lie before him. The world stands aghast and exclaims, “ There must be
I something wrong, that year, after year the, young of .our land are
j dying before their time.” There is, indeed, something very wrong;
> j it is simply this, there was power and life enough in him to have lasted
) j centuries, but his strength was all consumed in a few years of idle,
| thoughtless pleasure and gratification. Nature avenged herself, and
5 death, her strongest ally, entered and bore his spirit to the sphere of
(| the transition where he has, sooner or later, to fulfil the work which
j | should have been completed in this world. There is not a human being
| { who does not understand the law of right and wrong in this matter;
| j that if we sacrifice the life that is within us in order that we may out-
)! strip another; if we yield up our lives to gratifications and ambitions,
) [ we are sure to find that a great mistake has been made, and are stopped
| in the midst of our mad career. Each human being is born to live in
) i the world, and fulfil a mission before leaving it, and so far as this is accom-
| plished, is his spiritual condition improved. We here repeat that the
! more natural and pure your physical life, the more spiritual and exalted
j.i the spiritual condition will become. You stand aghast to-day at the
ji idea that the spirits from the higher life can return to earth and take
] j upon themselves human forms again; that they can leave their fair
j j home, and again mingle with the world of men, to sorrow with the sor-
) | rowing, and rejoice with the happy. Age, the law of materialisation,
(i which is the glory of the century, seems to confound the wisest and
II most learned among you, and yet this demonstration is but a reflection
of a much grander law which may be realised by coming generations.
; If spirits, after certain development, can leave their sphere and come to
j I you, so may you, by earnest and right living, take upon yourselves the
i law of spiritual conditions and roam through their world as they now
j | visit this; you may, in fact, become spiritualised ; the law of spiritual-
) j isation is one of the possibilities of the future. You shall go to them as
).| well as they come to you, and when the question is asked, “Is there
11 death?” we answer “No.” The dwellers in the spirit world will
j! - influence gradually all the conditions of this life, until the earthly
) I shadows of existence will one by one pass away, and the spirit of man
|! will become so sanctified by its life that it will no longer have anything
[ to die for. Jesus, by His peculiarly natural life, had the power of
II becoming spiritualised and entering into the heavenly life. In this
(j condition His face became bright with Divine beauty and His garments
H “ whiter than snow.” He was then no longer of this earth; He had
| taken on His spiritual body. Elijah was caught up in a chariot of fire,
11 because he was ready for the life of the spirit and needed not the change
) i called death; and so may the modern saint also become spiritualised,
| i and enter into the realms of eternal life and beauty, there to hold converse
{j with the “just made perfect ” and to learn more completely the lesson
5 j of life. The sphere of transition is only a condition which the present
| earth-life renders necessary, in order to complete that work which should
! have been done here. Wherever you turn in this sphere, there is
11 written in letters of living flame, “ Conquer self, conquer self, conquer
j; self,” and here you must remain until you can say to every temptation
I; which may come, “ I know thee now. Get thee behind me, Satan.”
1 When you can say this, when you can put all things under your feet,
and be true to the higher law of your being, then, and never till then,
| the gates of heaven swing open wide. There are desires and temptations
born of the earth-life, and that man is greatest who resists them most,
j The great power Jesus possessed lay in the fact that He had conquered
Himself, that He could reach out His hand lovingly to all, whoever they
might be, could comfort the sorrowing, cheer the downcast, and give
to all the blessed “ hope of heaven at last.” And when death came, well
could He overcome pain, for passing through the sphere of the transi-
11 tion, He at once entered “ one of the mansions in our Father’s house,”
11 there to find rest and peace after the weary storm of life; for in con-
) i quering self the light of heaveh was bom within Him, whereby He
i forgot all, save the great truth for which He worked, and regarded not
|! the opinions of men. So must you work only for truth’s.sake, “for he
) j who has his hand to the plough and turns back is not worthy the
j kingdom of heaven.” How many of you are ready to say “this
11 Spiritualism is so true that I will carry it in my heart, in spite of all
) | the world may say ? ” Not many perhaps, and yet there are a few who,
< | having once caught a glimpse of that life, can never forget it.
|i For them will the hour of triumph come. They will be “weighed
; | in the scales and not found wanting.” They can well afford to wait, for
11 their happiness is eternal happiness, which begins as heaven opens, and
{| ends only with eternity. When you have sacrificed yourself and con-
11 qUered every power of nature then you have passed beyond the transition
| sphere, then has immortality begun; thus death in the transition sphere
! 11 is but a rising out of all the sins of life into the glory and the beauty of
!) i eternal sunshine. There stands before us an angel of surpassing beauty,
i’i her face_beams with heavenly light, and as she gazes outward the
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 28, 1879
154
“ pearly gates of heaven open,” and a scene of beauty unfolds itself
before us. The sun shines o’er a thousand hills ; the air is filled with
songs of arisen saints, who in one grand anthem are singing, “ She has
risen! She has risen!- Welcome home! Welcome home! ” The fair
spirit looks down the pathway of her life—sees all the weary journey
over which her feet have passed; sees the wrongs righted, the good
done; sees the earth-life, with its clouds of sin and crime resting like
heavy shadows over it, and with one glad cry, “Oh grave, where is
thy victory? Oh death, where is thy sting?” is borne away on the
wings of good deeds to a land of rest and peace. Hers the eternal
summer, hers the joy unspeakable, hers the bliss born of God; ours the
land of winter, of discord, and contention; hers the sweet re-union with !)
loved ones gone before ; hers the never-fading crown, the crown of i)
immortality. | (
Pfletrg. I
“10 PEAN! |
Triumphant o’er trouble, triumphant o’er pain, j (
Triumphant o’er all and'through all we shall hie, j (
With the cry “ lo Pean ! ” and Echo—the strain— j j
From her cave “ 16 Pean 1 ” enraptured shall cry. j)
The storm may set in, and the summer may go— } |
But when keenest the cold—and the keener the more— ! (
Will a gleam in the cloud and a bloom in the snow j (
Give a pledge of a glory-girt future in store. !)
When from the dire Box of Pandora out-sprang i 5
The ills of mankind, at the bottom was found, ! M
What, a sweet panacea for every pang— ! ( j
What, a balsam should furnish for every wound. j
As it was in the myth, so it is in the fact, j J
And as long as the world on its axis shall move, |)
The Parcee from mortals will never exact I)
What a ban, not a boon, in the sequel would prove. j t
Not only our manifold evils externe— j (
But the ashes fill’d apples by Error pluck’d—they— j j
Even they emanate from a fountain Superne, j )
And will prove to be true golden apples one day. !)
Through the regions of Erebus lay the rough x’oad __ j).
By which the brave entered the Fields of the Blest; i (
But from Hades escaped and Elysium trode— I \
The toil but made sweeter the pleasure ppssost, j)
Dragon-watched was the idol of Jason’s desire, i)
Yet a triumph awaited the noble and wise: j /
And as sure as the faggot but heatens the fire, i (
As sure did the danger make richer the prize. i \
Creation itself from a Chaos was iborn, !\
And by the Great Law good from evil proceeds, j
And our Ate herself to an Eros would turn i)
If aright we could look at the drift of our deeds. j (
Nay, neither tho gloom that o’ershadows our skies, j (
Nor the danger that lies in the path to our goal, j \
Nor the keenest of pangs need awaken our sighs,— j)
From woe the soul fashions delight for the soul. !)
Triumphant o’er trouble, triumphant o’er pain, i)
Triumphant o’er death and through death we shall hie, i (
With the cry “ 16 Pean! ” and Echo—the strain— ! j
From her cave “ 16.Pean! ” enraptured shall cry. 11
Joseph Skipsey. j|
OToraaponUence. j
t Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically j)
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited commimications cannot j /
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which \)
are not anonymous.']   j)
MADAME BLAVATSKY. j <
Sir,—I have cut out a passage from the Revue Spirite of October, i /
1878, which is referred to by Madame Blavatsky in her letter to you of i \
March 21st, and I have appended the cutting to this page, by which you |)
will see that Madame Blavatsky’s words, as published in the Revue, I)
were “ Je n'ai pas 1 passe plus de trente ans dans I’Inde,' C'est justement i j
mon age,—quoique fort respectable tel qvCil est,—il s'"oppose violemment I >
d cette chronologic^ &c., which I translated thus, “ I have not ‘ passed ])
more than thirty years in India.’ It is exactly my age—although very j j
respectable such as it is—it is in violent opposition to this chronology,” j)
&c. In this last letter to you Madame Blavatsky tells you that the 11
words were “ C'est justement mon age—quoique fort respectable tel qu'il j (
est—qui s'oppose violemment d cette chronologic f &c. Madame Blavatsky j)
adds, “ I reproduce the sentence exactly as it appears, with the sole j (
exception of restoring the period after ‘ Vlndej in place of the comma, } \
which is simply a typographical mistake.” Madame Blavatsky will ||
pardon me, I hope, for saying that her sentence does not appear I (
in her letter to'1, you as it did in the Revue ; for, as you will I j
see, in the Revue itself her words were “ il s'oppose'' while |)
in her letter to you they are “qui s'oppose," which substitution of i
the word qui for the world il makes all the difference to the translator, i j
After this it is a little strange for Madame Blavatsky to send me to I j
study French on account of her own error. It is also rather severe to i (
accuse me of an error of punctuation, which I actually amended in my i \
translation by putting a full stop after the word “ India,” instead of the i)
comma after “ PInde" That error, whose ever it was, was not mine, as | (
any one could easily see by referring to my letter of January 31st. | j
It pains me to be regarded as a Nemesis. I would rather be looked
on as one who, like others, upholds principles in which he believes.
| With regard to masking my face, I only wish that circumstances would
allow me to show it a little oftener than I do ; and with regard to my
] humble name, as I have before intimated to the Editor, I do not wish it
| to be concealed either from Madame Blavatsky or from any other
person with whom I am in conference in The Spiritualist.
Scrutator.
PLAGIARISM AND SPIRIT COMMUNICATIONS.
Sir,—On the 20th of last month I had a sitting ; my wife, mother,
and nephew. Mr. Eglinton (the medium) and myself made five
persons. Without going into details I wish to inform your readers that
a few days previously “ Ernest,” one of the spirit guides, told me,
speaking in the direct voice, that some of my telegraphic friends
(spirits) would probably pay me a visit again, and requested us to sit
on the 20th January. We did so, and had the gratification of seeing
the fully materialised form of “ Abdullah,” and other spirits, in a good
light; the medium and materialised spirits were seen together, and
instead of five persons being in the room we had sometimes six or seven
individuals in my private seance-room.
Just before one of the spirit forms came out we were told to sing
whilst it (the form) remained with us, as it was a very high spirit. We
all saw it come out, go up to the mantelshelf, take down some blank
cards, go to the table, sit down on a chair, and begin writing; as we
were singing I could not hear what was going on, but noticed the
hand manipulating the lead pencil. I made a note, mentally, that the
form remained much longer than the one on a previous occasion, and to
prove that I was not mistaken, after the form had risen and come
within two feet of me, and then bowed and retired, I took the paper and
found it covered on one side, and part of the other, in characters which
looked like the last telegraphic message (9th Dec., 1878); but I found on
closer inspection that although the characters were telegraphic, they
were in the English code, the former one having been written in the
American code, so that unless one knew the code it would be impossible
to transcribe it. Fortunately, I am acquainted with both systems,
having learnt the English code out here for my private use, and after a
considerable time I succeeded in making out nearly the whole of it.
Before I give the words I must remark that “ Ernest,” speaking so that
all could hear him, told my wife that the spirit who wrote on the card
occasionally controlled Mrs. Cora L. Tappin, New Richmond, when
delivering her inspirational discourses, and that when we had tran¬
scribed the message we should treasure the words in our hearts, and live
up to the advice given. Note, that the spirit who gave the message
occasionally controlled Mrs. Tappan. After much trouble I managed to
make out the following message :—<c Spirits are thronging around you
to-night; the air is full of their breath ; your lives are largely made up
of their influences; they impel you in one way; they impede it in
another; seek, therefore, the good influences—the soft voice of angelic
ministration. You are often angry; anger attracts undeveloped souls.
You are often envious; envy does not draw the brighter spirits. Mete
out to others that which we would have them do to you. The. soul must
 (I could not make out these two words) pure and garnished.
Seek the best light, the holiest influences ; then you may benefit others
and lead them to the light. God Is Love.—Your Guide.”
This was my translation, but I was not certain about one or two lines,
although it had got the sense of the message. The spirit had omitted to
make some of the dots and dashes (which I had to anticipate), and for
you wrote u, an old way of abbreviating. Having showed the translation
to several of my friends, one of them (who is a thorough spiritual
student, devouring every book I lend him) gave me a paper on which
was an extract taken from Mrs. Tappan’s oration on “Mediumship,”
and which was, with the exception of three or four words, literally the
same lines as in my telegram. The word to-night (after “ spirits are
thronging around you ”) was after “ you,” and “ souls ” was put
instead of “ undeveloped spirits.” “ God Is Love ” and “ Your Guide ”
were added. Now if I were not thoroughly sure that I »aw this spirit
write the message, and then saw the medium and spirit, both at once,
would I have been to blame if I thought plagiarism had been practised ?
I think not; but being a cautious, though enthusiastic, investigator, I
had already made my notes about what “ Ernest ” had told my wife,
viz., that the spirit who had given us the message occasionally controlled
Mrs. Tappan. I could not persuade “ Joey ” or “Ernest ” to give me
the name, but I know that it was a materialised spirit, whose physique
was entirely different to that of the medium.
Truth is immortal, and is applicable to all people, at all times and
places. The message the spirit wrote us had been given in one of Mrs.
Tappan’s orations on “ Mediumship,” and was only an extract for our
edification. The spirit controlling the inspirational medium (Mrs.
Tappan) at the time was the same one who wrote the telegraphic cha¬
racters. This “ Ernest ” told us, after I had importuned him to give us
his name, which he refused. But to satisfy our curiosity, he said that
he had occasionally controlled Mrs. Tappan. I am as sure as my life
that there was no plagiarism about the matter; but to a tyro or captious
person, Spiritualist or sceptic, a hasty opinion would have been formed,
resulting probably in openly accusing the faithful and innocent medium
of wilful fraud, as in the case of poor Dr. Slade whilst in Holland in
1877, and of late in the case of Mr. Lambelle, who was accused by a
gentleman of plagiarism, who, I believe, did so on conscientious grounds.
It pained me much to see plagiarism imputed to Mr. Lambelle, who I
believe to be a good and true inspirational medium; but we are only
mortals,, and see through a glass darkly. I sincerely hope and trust
that investigators will in future be more careful before denouncing any
medium or person on circumstantial evidence.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Rental Surgeon^
Cape Town, South Africa, February 25th, 1879,
March 28, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
155
“ SPIRITS BEFOKE OUR EYES.”
The following is a synopsis of the contents of the first volume of
Mr. Harrison’s book, Spirits before our Eyes, which will be out in
about ten days’ time
Chapter I. — The objects and method of this book — Ultra¬
materialism a necessary reaction from blind superstition, but now
probably at its highest altitude—The destructive effects of ultra¬
materialism on the finer elements of man’s nature—A reaction from
abnormal materialism taking place in society—The mental demand for
the play of ideality a natural one, with means in the universe for its
legitimate gratification—Knowledge of physics not the highest order
of intellectual acquirement—The moral and religious social influence
of individual certainty of the reality of a life beyond the grave—
Abundant phenomenal evidence of the reality of a future life open for
critical examination.
Chapter II.—Apparitions seen in one place at about the time of
the death of the body in another—The simplest class of death-bed
apparitions—Death-bed apparitions seen by solitary witnesses—Death¬
bed apparitions seen by Lord Brougham, Lieutenant-General Fytche,
the Queen of Navarre, Mr. James Sutherland, Miss Elizabeth Hobson,
and Lord Chedworth—Death-bed apparitions published by Mr. W. T.
Drewry, the Lord Lindsay, Mr. John Carson, Henry IV. of France,
Prebendary Dennis, and the Rev. J. S. Pollock—Death-bed apparitions
verified at f both ends of the line ”—Attestations of the Rev. Thomas
Tilson and Dr. Werner.
Chapter III.—Death-bed apparitions seen by one witness (continued)
—Some apparitions temporarily materialised forms, others psychical—
Some psychical apparitions real—Physical effects produced by death¬
bed apparitions — A rose-scattering spirit — Permanent results of a
spirit grasp—Curtains and doors moved by death-bed apparitions—
Apparitions of Catholic priests to their friends, and of parents to their
children—Universality of the general characteristics of the phenomena
—Certain resemblances to those produced through mediums—Spirit
clothing — The source of the matter composing the bodies of
materialised death-bed apparitions—Death-bed apparitions seen by
Lady Beresford, Lord Westmoreland, the Marquis de Rambouillet,
Lord Balcarres, Colonel Nathan Wilson, Mrs. Tantum, and Captain
Ridd—Death-bed apparitions attested or published by Mrs. Hardinge-
Britten, the Marquis de Precy, John Wesley, Mr. William Howitt,
Mr. Plumer Ward, M.P., Lord Byron, and the Rev. J. S. Pollock,
M.A.
Chapter IV.—Death-bed apparitions seen by one person (continued)
—Impressional, but real, apparitions—Mesmeric influence of the spirit
over the sensitive—What the spirit thinks, the sensitive sees'—The
sensations and temporarily abnormal condition of the seers—Trust¬
worthy information about events at a distance given by the psychical
method—The ruling passion of a Russian doctor strong in death—
Particulars relating to death-bed apparitions seen by St. Benedict,
Catherine de Medicis, Madame Sophie Aksakof, and M. Bezule—
Death-bed apparitions testified to or published by Mr. Serjeant Cox,
Father Newman, Queen Marguerite, and the Abb4 de St. Pierre—The
-condition of mind in which irruptions from the spirit world are
imminent.
Chapter V.—Death-bed apparitions seen by one person (continued)
—Sometimes when apparitions are seen spiritually, what the spirit
thinks the sensitive sees—The same phenomena producible by experi¬
ment between spirits still in the earthly body—Details of experiments
—Visions produced by the will-power of mesmerists and by the
thoughts of inquirers—Synchronous dreams—Spiritual revelation of
a murder—Spiritual appearances on board the cable-repairing ship
Robert Lowe — Spiritual revelations in agreement with demon¬
strations by experiment—The seership of Swedenborg and Thomas
Lake Harris—“ En rapport.”
Chapter VI.—Death-bed apparitions seen by several witnesses at
once—Death-bed apparition seen by five witnesses, and their trust¬
worthiness attested by Mrs. Margaret Balfour; by three witnesses,
and attested by Mrs. Backhouse ; by three witnesses, and attested by
Mr. Richard Grattan, M.D. ; by two or three witnesses, including
Prebendary Salter ; by two witnesses, Sir John Sherbroke and General
Wynyard ; by four witnesses, the Rev. Thomas Savage and rela¬
tives ; by two witnesses, and attested by Mr. Frederick Sinclair;
by two witnesses, and attested by the Rev. F. G. Lee; by thirty
witnesses, and sworn to in the Court of King’s Bench; by five
witnesses, and attested by Mrs. Crowe—Old Booty’s ghost and the
appearance of “ a gentleman in black ”—Apparitions sometimes seen
by psychical impression by more than one person at the same time.
Chapter VII. — Death indications given otherwise than by
apparition to persons at a distance—News of death revealed in dreams
•—Further experimental illustrations of means whereby dreams can be
set up in the brains of sleeping mortals—Major Owen’s experiments—
Dr. Abercrombie’s statement—A distant death revealed to Bishop
Hall and his brother by a synchronous dream — Distant deaths
revealed by dream to Mrs. Gilmonr, Mrs. Murray, Bishop Lee’s son,
the Duchess of Guelderland, the Countess of Cork, Ben Jonson, and
St. Basil—News of death given in a synchronous dream to two ladies
—Symbolical indication of distant deaths given by dream to James V.
of Scotland, Bishop Jewel, and Sir Francis Bacon—Indications of a
distant death given to Dr. Grattan in a railway carriage—A death-
scene at Oxford seen in detail in a dream—Death-bed indication to a
distant blind relative-—Physical effects produced by death-bed appari¬
tions—Sir Walter Scott’s narrative—The temperature of temporarily
materialised death-bed apparitions.
Chapter VIII.—Apparitions of living mortals—The spirit leaving
the body during sleep and trance—The spirits of living mortals seen
at distant places—Verification of spiritual travels at “both ends of the
line ”—Details of funerals seen in dream or trance—The materialised
spirit of a living Methodist minister seen, recognised, touched, and
heard by two witnesses—A human “ double ” seen by the Rev. Mr.
Moore and another witness—The spirit of Shelley seen by several
persons during his life—The apparition of a living murderer seen in
daylight by some of the Glasgow police—A spiritual interview between
two unembodied Americans — Communion with the spirits of the
living, the dying, and the dead through the clairvoyance of the wife
of a New York physician—War news conveyed to the Baroness Von
Vay by the spirit of a living man—Messages carried between London
and New Zealand by living human spirits—Strange experiences of
Prince Wittgenstein in relation to the evocation of the spirits of the
living—A stranger story still.
Chapter IX.—Hallucinations—Untrustworthy dreams and sub¬
jective impressions—Materialistic medical men do not understand the
nature of some of the maladies with which they deal—False mental
impressions may be given by mesmerism—How a susceptible young
man saw an angel named Sarah Seabold—How Sarah Seabold
inspired him to deliver trance speeches—An interview with Elijah, the
prophet—How a policeman tried to converse on spiritual subjects and
failed.
Chapter X.—The major and minor phenomena recorded in this
volume, reproducible, for the most part, by experiment—Examples
—The direction experimental research should take in the future—
General conclusions.
In the second volume it will be shown that there is no break in the
phenomena at the time of the death of the body, but that each series
of facts continues in an unbroken line, the same with the spirits of
the departed as with the spirits of the living and the dying.
MARCH SONNETS.—1879.
BY J. T. MARKLET.
I.
Bring Light and Hope young Month, in snow-drop peep !
Fair signs of scents and songs of golden days :
Warm winds—with Music mellow’d by bold rays
Of daring suns,—aroused from old year sleep.
0 God ! but breathe, and Life itself will leap
To pulsing pictures on wild fallow-lands !
Now break slow frosts’ enthralling Death-grip bands
That Babe and Bird may feed, and cease to weep.
Old Earth—long star-stung with ice marbled fire,
Hath been too long an Arctic, mocking hell,
Unfed by roaring sins, free guilt, or crime.
We part to laugh again, lead on ! aspire!
Nor see a funeral, where we fainting fell,
Adown the deadliest steeps of thorn-fenced Time !
n.
Drown Hunger’s angry wail, with dancing trill
Of all-souls, glee-linked, tim^d-thankfulness,
Until such Concert pleases, but to bless
Our great Land’s Life—no longer black and still.
From Cottage homes, forgotten on the hill—
From villas moist with cavern-coldness now;
And from deserted haunts of Ox and Plough,
0! let rare flowery warmth come forth, and fill
Each stretch of Field and Flood, with wid’ning bliss.
Ah! soon sunk winter—in sad hearts of men,
Must melt before deep-kindled Crocus flame:
Stray beauty, from rich worlds, burn into this :
Till cloud-screen’d souls, long dumb, are found again,
Fresh thron’d on Toil’s strong skyward tiers of fame!
in
Ye southern gales ! confirm a holy thaw !
Waft bread upon thy unlocked, trembling streams,
That men may catch swift affluence of dreams,
And Mother’s breasts flow babewards, in pure law.
Give famish’d crowds full horns, our father’s saw
Of Plenty! and of Peace !—beneath free vines
Quick bursting ! into Fruit’s red, swelling lines !
And scenic nourishment. What wealth of awe,
The heightened heart must feel in that clear morn—
That dazzling harvest-blush, in sheaf and tree.
Fret cheerily 1 transition skies—with rain;
Fall metre-touch’d on lean, eruptive corn,
That sleeping gods may hear Sap’s Jubilee,
And watch men lose fine sacrificial pain!
3, Park-terrace, Horsham.
The Rev. JohnS Tyerman left for Australia last Tuesday. His ship
will call for a few "days at Cape Town, where there is a great desire that
he should remain and lecture.
156
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 28, 1879.
PRESENTIMENTS OF DEATH.
Now ready, the Second and Concluding Volume of the
MECHANISM OF MAN:
From “The Religio-Philosophical Journal,” March \&t, 1879.
Detroit, Michigan, February 17th, 1879.
The following statement of facts was made to me by the parents of
the children whose death is spoken of
In November last one of the two daughters of J. H. Post, living three
and a half miles west of Ithaca, Gratiot county, was taken seriously ill
with congestion of the lungs, and within three days died. During her
sickness she said she saw the Saviour, and that when he came again
she was going with him. She told her older sister the day after she was
taken sick that she, too, was going to die very soon. The latter, a girl
nearly sixteen years old, rather indignantly resented the assertion,
having no thought at the time that her end was near; but the little girl
repeated the statement, saying it was so because God or Jesus had told
her so.
She seemed perfectly happy at the thought of dying, and continued to
talk about it to her parents, her sister, and the neighbour’s children who
had been her playmates.
One remarkable feature about her sickness was the fact that she
retained her strength until she died, and within five minutes of the time
when she breathed her last, she said to her mother, “He is coming for
me now, and I must go.’’
Her mother had just finished a new dress for her, and she said,
‘ ‘ Mamma, I want my new dress on now, so that I can go, for He is almost
here! ” At her urgent request her mother got the dress, and the little
girl got down on the floor and put the dress on herself, when she seemed
perfectly contented. Then, after asking to be carried to each room in
the house, she called each member of the family to her, and bidding
them farewell, she said, “ He has come now, and I must go,” and almost
immediately expired!
Two days after this her older sister was taken with diphtheria, and
after a brief illness died. During her sickness she said to her mother,
“There is Rosa (her young sister who had just died). Don’t you see
her ? Her mother said, “ No, I don’t see her, but I suppose you can.”
This satisfied her, and she seemed to feel happy at the thought of death,
although previous to her sickness she had not been an especially
thoughtful girl. During her illness, too, she retained her strength to a
remarkable degree, and within five minutes of her death sat in a rocking-
chair and rocked herself as naturally as when in health.
The day before her death she said she saw another funeral procession
on its way to the cemetery, and although she did not mention the name
of any one, she pointed in the direction of one of their neighbours, and
said, “ You will see very soon.” She died while seated in her rocking-
chair, suddenly ceasing to breathe, without a struggle.
One of the neighbour’s girls who attended her funeral, just as the
coffin was carried off, called out to the deceased by name, saying,
“ Hettie, I will come very soon! ”
Two days after, this girl, although at the time in good health, was
taken sick, and after a very brief illness also died.
The foregoing I have given briefly, as related to me by Mr. and Mrs.
Post, the parents of the two children first mentioned above. They are
not educated people, but seemed to be candid and truthful, and were
evidently very deeply impressed with the peculiar experience of their
children during their sickness.
Before this sad event Mr. Post was an utter disbeliever in God or a
future state. Now he believes in both, and says he thinks God took his
children and gave them the experience they had to convince him of the
reality of eternal things. Who can account for it on a better hypothesis ?
—“ M. M.” in “ Truth for the People.”
To soil others is no way to make ourselves clean.—Tennyson.
He that believes without having any reason for believing may be in
love with his own fancies, but neither seeks truth as he ought, nor pays
due obedience to his Maker, who would have him use those discerning
faculties he has given him to keep him out of mistake and crime.—
John Locke.
A Tumour Removed by Mesmerism.—Mr. H. E. Dickinson, of
Milwaukee, Wis., sends to Mind and Matter the particulars of a case
in which a lady, who suffered much from a tumour, was cured by Dr.
Horning, a healing medium. The diagnosis of her disease was dropsy
and ovarian tumour. She applied for medical treatment at the Thermal
Baths, where she was attended by Drs. M. P. Hunson and Sergeant-
General Wolcott. Eighteen pounds of water were removed by the
common process of tapping. This operation would have to be performed
several times before any attempt could be made to remove the tumour,
which, it was estimated, weighed nine pounds. In the meantime, a
sister called upon Dr. Wm. W. Horning, a healing medium and clair¬
voyant, and, being entranced, he made a diagnosis of the case, never
having seen the patient, or heard of her. The sister then made appli¬
cation to the physicians at the Bath to permit Dr. Horning to attend
the patient. They gave their consent, expressing the opinion that he
could not do the sufferer any good. The Indian doctor, as he is called,
attended the patient at his office, and in three weeks’ time she was
entirely cured, without resort to surgery. The patient having been
restored started for her home in the interior of the State, but before
leaving Milwaukee called upon Doctor Wolcott, who had attended her
at the Bath when he removed the eighteen pounds of water already
alluded to. He did not recognise her first. She then informed him that
Dr. Horning, the Indian doctor, had removed the tumour by manipula¬
tion. Dr. Wolcott said he knew Dr. Horning could read minds, but he !
never knew that he could remove tumours, such as had afflicted her. j
It may be stated that he removed by manipulation several tumours j
within a few weeks that had been pronounced hopeless by attending
physicians,—From “ Mind and Matter,” Philadelphia, Feb. Find. I
LIFE, MIND, SOUL.
A POPULAR INTRODUCTION TO MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY.
By EDWARD W. COX, S.L.,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Vol. II. Treating of the Mechanism in Action, Price 12s. 6cl.
Yol. I. may be had, price 10s. 6d.; the work complete, 22s. 6d.
CONTENTS:
Part II.—THE MECHANISM IN ACTION.
Book I.—The Normal Action of the Mechanism of Man.—Chapter 1. Intro¬
ductory ; 2. The Action of the Material Mechanism in Health; 3. Of Un¬
conscious Cerebration; 4. Of Mental Sympathy and Communion; 5. Body,
Mind, and Soul in Health.
Book II.—The Abnormal Action of the Mechanism.—Chapter 1. Introduction
—The Psychology of the Future; 2. How to be Pursued; 3. Objections and
Objectors ; 4. Precautions in Research ; 5. Prepossession and Dominant Idea;
6, How we Know; 7. Scientific Evidence ; 8. The Plan Proposed.
Book III.—Of Sleep and Dream.—Chapter 1. What Sleep Is ; 2. The
Physiology of Sleep; 3. The Mental Condition of Sleep; 4. The Seat of
Sleep ; 5. Of Dream ; 6. The Material Mechanism of Dream ; 7. The Psycho¬
logy of Dream ; 8. The Phenomena of Dream; 9. The Philosophy of Dream ;
10. Conclusions.
Book IV.—The Phenomena of Delirium and Insanity.—Chapter 1. Delirium ;
2. Insanity.
Book V.—The Phenomena of Somnambulism.—Chapter 1. Introduction ; 2.
Somnambulism; 3. Natural Somnambulism; 4. Artificial Somnambulism;
5. The Phenomena of Artificial Somnambulism; 6. The Physiology of Som¬
nambulism ; 7. The Psychology of Somnambulism.
Book VI. — Supersensuous Perception. — Introduction ; Chapter 1. The
Phenomena of Supersensuous Perception ; 2. The Physiology and Psychology
of Supersensuous Perception.
Book VII.—Trance.—Introduction; Chapter 1. The Phenomena of Trance ;
2. The Physiology and Psychology of Trance.
Book VIII,—Psychism.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. Objections and Objectors ;
2. The Witnesses; 3. Psychic Force ; 4. The Methods of Investigation; 5.
The Phenomena of Psychism ; 6. The Psychic ; 7. The Physiology of Psychic
Force; 8. The Directing Intelligence; 9. Phenomena of Psychism ; 10. More
Phenomena of Psychism ; 11. Other Phenomena of Psychism; 12. Communi¬
cated Phenomena ; 13. The Physiology and Psychology of Psychism.
Book IX.—The Argument.—Chapter 1. The Summing up ; 2. Conclusions.
LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Rod Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena.
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spintualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Just Published,
SPIRIT-IDENTITY,
By M.A. (Oxon).
Cloth 8vo, red edges, price 5s, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilif,
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
| Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
| writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
'The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
THE SPIRITUALIST
March 28, 1879.
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OP THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor o<
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them: they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BT ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
27ie “ Poughkeepsie Seer." .?. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . 13 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ ..76
The Seer. „ III. „ ..76
The Reformei „ IV. „ ... 7 6
The Thinker. „ V. . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis . . .76
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . • .70
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .70
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . • .20
Death and the After-Life . . . • • .30
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . • .30
Harbinger of Health , . . . • ■ . 7 6
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .30
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . , .70
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . • . .36
Penetralia; Containing Hannonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .00
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .7
.he Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .7
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love: Truth v. Theology . . 3 0
Morning Lectures . . . . • • .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . is
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my .Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. .10
Awas-I-Hind'; or, A Voice from the Ganges.by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation . of the Mysteries of Modern . Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M. D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople . ... 1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three veils. . . .... IS
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
0
0
0
0
6
0
0
0
0
6
0
0
6
0
6
6
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
S00 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says;—‘‘ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in Its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is, Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, TT.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have-
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistie throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in bis preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who areun
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—Nowf/t Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Gloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in. the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, aud Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality. -
Chapter III—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Heme—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter Vl.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Keva. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumslup of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardee—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon— ■
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality —Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt —
Newman Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstuhhe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain-from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Variey, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning couductprs.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s
Loudon : W. II. Harrison, 3S, Great Russell-strcct, W.C
Price five shillinga. Grown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
1. —That Attested by the Senses:—
Ij Of /SiyW.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T.-T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ilf From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.E.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wvld
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Proiessor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post tree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
medfumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”) and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship oi Cora L. V. Tappan-Riehmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
HI.—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumsliip ot
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals
ByEmile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
X,VI.—Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A .
Oxon.”
XVII Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelina Yon Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burxe.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—Tire Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint. ” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX111.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV  The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship a
“ M.A, Os.on.”
XXXV  The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVl—The Predie fion. By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow's Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury „
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W.H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. Bv Alex.
Caldcr.
XLI Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for LVd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Maroh 28, 1879
V
THE SPIRITUALIST.
'. Price ..6d.; po'st free, 7Jd;; 'cloth.
Prize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OP SOCIETY. . Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. P. Green. I
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
The trapped medium • or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers. — This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G. A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
AT MRS. PARKER’S, 66, WARWICK
STREET, BELGRAVE ROAD, LONDON, a Philo¬
sophical and Developing Circle is being formed. Those wishing
to join will please send in their names. Terms on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing into
clairvoyance; she is replying to sealed questions when condi¬
tions favour. Office hours from 12 to 6 o'clock.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiometer, and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Varley, Pro£ Zb'llner, and a great
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIROLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
arc not), they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table filtings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,’1 and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? " Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two stances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARBISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. Q'he Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacahac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobbtcjaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke-,
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not ttoat his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced huinour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured."
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘ a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and! satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If om readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
■ “A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lav of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers. ’
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous,...
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in Itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
, “ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \N.B. An
irate member or the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,'’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, YV.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
1 the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intnition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Setr—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
a^d Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method audits Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric -
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S >i ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets,Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications o»
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan
ity. Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second. Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER a. :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyllc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.. Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—^Effects of Suggestion on Persond in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Wat
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
info Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Cone udi
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London E.O.
