Ekcwsteued as a Newspaper.-
dltaf m <&xmt §r^ain*
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : xi, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule*
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 9x8, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON :
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 317. (Vol. XIII.—No. 12.) LONDON: FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
©ontents.
An Exposure of Imposture      ...133
Dangerous Illness of Prince Wittgenstein .-. 135
Religion of Magic  ... 135
Answers to Correspondents     ... 185
The Spiritual Body...     136
The Passage of Matter through Matter...  136
Review:—Egyptian Belief and Modern Thought. By
James Bonwick, F.R.GLS 137
Professor Ziillner’s Experiments with Dr. Slade... ... ... 138
Address by Mr. W. J. Oolville 139
Correspondence:—Art Magic and Spiritualism—Healing
Mediumship—Strange Lights  f. 141
Second Sight in the Highlands of Scotland. By Daniel
De Foe... ... ... ... ...     142
Strange Antipathies  144
Paragraphs:—Mr. Colville’s Farewell Meeting, 134 ; Dr.
Johnson’s Prayer, 134; A Spirit Foot, 134; Death of
a Somnambulist, 136; A Child with a Tail, 136; Arti¬
ficial Memory, 137; A Curious Action, 137; Bishop
Jewel, 144; A Secular Monastery    ... 144
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHES IN 1869.
rriHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-•- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.B., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, hut has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess ox
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywobd; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ol
the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F-R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A^ LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling.
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd. ;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.C,
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view ofModern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Rgiigious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 6s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOR SEPTEMBER.
Tuesday, 3rd.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 6th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Tuesday, \6th.—Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
“ “ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m._
Friday, \3th.—Experimental Research Committee.
Saturday, Vtth.—Farewell Address by Mr. J. W. Colville,
at 3.30 p m.
Friday, 20th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
“ “ Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Wednesday, 25th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
“ “ Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 21th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
“ “ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 pan.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of hooks on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MR. and MISS DIETZ having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (“ One of
the most successful series ever known in London”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—the
West of England, during the first week in October; Scotland,
during November; the Midland Counties, early in December.
Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route. For par¬
ticulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, London,
S.W. Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture on
“ American Humour,” illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. II. July. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—The Two Schools of Thought. By St. George Stock.
II.—James Hinton. By William White.
III. —Clairvoyance and Psychography. By Epes Sargent.
IV. —The Abate of San Gandolfo. By J. C. Earle.
V.—Remarkable Psychological Experiences. By A. E.
Newton.
VI.—Psychology of the Bible. By J. W. Farquhar.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. II.—Issoudun. By Rev. H.
N. Grimley.
VIII.—Thirtieth Anniversary of Modem Spiritualism. By
Thomas Shorter.
Leaves from My Life—An Innocent Sinner—Buddhism—
Miss Martineau Defended—More Glimpses of the World
Unseen — Concerning Everlasting Punishment — Possible
Planetary Influences—An Intelligent Tree—Psychography—
The Truthseeker — Views of our Heavenly Home —The
Master’s Field—Marguerite Marie Alacoque.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.’
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiqnes, fond@ par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Socitti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Ts. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.: post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may he obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Mediumship i its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the test quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving yon time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. «. SQUINT A NI & Co.
Show Rooms :—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <fcc.
post free, seven stamps.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President. I
Alex. Ca'der, Esq,., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1. Bernard-villas, tipper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Eitz-Gerald, Desmond G-> M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdousall,2l, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honvwood Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.E.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, G. C., Barrister-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Bogers, E. Dawson, Bose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Temp]eman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Citmberland-plaee, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adsbcad, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Langley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Kichmond Hill.'
Binney, F A., 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead,
Chapman, John, 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W H„ 94,' Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Eev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G.. 6. Akerman-road, Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F„ Hale Cottage, Sheoter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H,, 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street. Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfield, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M-l.C-E.. Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A., 14, Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbonld, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Relmers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Stra bridge, Geo. Nelson,84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Rtrawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morel!, 30. Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E-.
Tredwen, E. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M.J , 9, Eandolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leedn.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-souare. Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex..Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J, W, Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland .-
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Fotschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeid, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Yeh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mine, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles,Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. Y. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., MD., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Kreuz
Kirche, par Neuvied, Prusse Rhenance.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq.. 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris.
Jter. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 20, 1878.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre.Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test, Esq,, M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppaa-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epc'jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgra/ve-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Yasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W. »
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
. Buda-Pesth,Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Tofres-Solanot.
Sociedad.’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One, of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 qniet and order essential to English Oustoms. 
THE TRIUMPH OP LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
" Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small Svo, price 3s. 6<i London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Works by the Ooontess oe Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
‘ Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I. .
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—H. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.'—V. L*ve and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XL Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glen are.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth:
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world I Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
T>RIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
JB-? tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, James’s-stroet; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR, J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLAGE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
e engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.  .   .  
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—■
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m <
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Clairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon place, Blooms ■
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Phetos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CCURATIVE MESMERISM AND CLAIR-
f VOYANOE.—Professor Adolphe Didier (33 years estab¬
lished) attends Patients and may he consulted at his residence
from 2 to 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington,
Consultations by letter.
MESMERIC HEALER.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante,^examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
NOTICE.—M. FOX KANE receives friends
at 14,_ Southampton-row, London, Mondays, Wednes¬
days, and Fridays, from 2 to 5p.m. A circle on reduced terms
on Tuesday and Thursday evenings, from 8 to 10.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISM© IN
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Boglno, No. 23.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London Simpkin, makshall & Co.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
mHE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
-JL describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
jl \nptfc m % xtf % Hiil xtf
Ko. si?.-—Volujvie Thirteen; Humber Twelve.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20th, 1878.
AN EXPOSURE OF IMPOSTURE. j
We have received the following letters from Mr. Riko !
and others :—
2'o the Editor of u The Spiritualist.”
j
Sm,—In Spiritualism, as in all sciences and religions, impostors and
quacks are to be found, but they do not injure the system itself. It is
human depravity abusing good things; and here is a new and startling i
example.
You know that Williams and Rita came to The Hague and gave some
sittings here, after which they went to the friends at Amsterdam. In
the night of the lOth-llth September last, I was disturbed in my rest by
receiving a telegram from Amsterdam, which I here translate:—
Mediums Rita and Williams both unmasked. Have all proofs against both
in our hands. Come and we will show you Jobn King and apparel.
(Signed) Krabbe. j
Early next day came another telegram from Mr. Van Maurik with j
details ; then a postal card from the same, and a letter from Mr. Krabbe,
giving further information. As I expected, Rita and Williams returned j
to The Hague on the morning of the 11th, and when I’came home at I \
twelve o’clock I found them in my drawing-room.
As soon as I entered Williams said to me, “ What do you think about ! \
the roughs at Amsterdam, Mr. Riko ? ” I answered, “ I have not yet any i i
opinion. I want to speak to the friends there, whom I expect here ; 1
to-day or to-morrow.” Then he made a feeble effort to excuse himself j ]
by saying, “ I really don’t know how it came about.” I stopped this at j i
once, by telling him very calmly that I knew spirits sometimes made j1
mediums do certain things in trance; but I advised him to never try to j (
convince any person or Spiritualist who possessed a grain of common j i
sense that the spirits provided mediums with muslin, beards, &c., to j ]
play tricks with occasionally, and that I myself could never be made to j (
believe such things. Williams remained silent, and so did Rita, and I j I
proceeded to give them a lesson out of my heart, telling them that their j j
conduct^was a shame; that I did hot understand how men, having a j (
grain of honesty and human feeling in their souls, could cheat true j i
friends in such a base manner: those friends had done all they had in j ]
their power to please them, receiving them as friends under their own
roofs, &c., &c., &c. I further gave them my advice to take the Harwich i1
steamer at five o’clock, and go back to England at once. I assure you I
it was a heavy task to me to remain calm.
They remained silent. Rita seemed to repent, and to be very much j
struck; he was the first to offer test sittings after calm should be
restored, for which purpose he said he would come back to the Hague.
I told them that I had to consult the friends, and that we should decide
together on our line of conduct in this matter. Rita said that this was
right, and he restored to me out of his own money the cost of one night’s
lodging at a friend’s house at Amsterdam. Whereupon they went away,
and, as I heard later, left the Hague at three o’clock for Rotterdam.
Of course I did not pay them the rest of the amount they would have
got if all had finished honourably. The contributors can now divide
this amongst themselves. They had other engagements, but, you under¬
stand, I would not allow them to accept them, nor let them go to other
places.
Mr. Van Maurik visited me on Thursday evening, and in the presence
of some friends he related the history of the exposure with all details,
and showed the dirty John King apparel and the other things found on
the mediums. He told me the Amsterdam friends wished an exposure |
in the English spiritual papers, and so did all who heard Mr. Y. Maurik’s
relation at my house.
This is his version of the affair, and perhaps you may receive their
own report soon:—
On Tuesday evening, the 10th of September, some good investigators
held a seance with Messrs. Williams and Rita at the rooms of one of the
sitters. Two days before the mediums had given another sitting, and
suspicions were aroused by some of the manifestations; therefore some
of the sitters made up their minds to obtain security on that point, con¬
vinced as they were that both mediums cheated in the most impudent
manner. On the said evening, at first the usual physical manifestations
at the table occurred, but were very weak. After that the cabinet was
made, and Messrs. Williams and Rita placed behind the screen. After
some singing and the playing of the musical box, the materialisation
began. “ Charlie,” one of Rita’s spirits, showed his face, lighted by his
spirit-lamp.
At once one of the sitters near the cabinet made a leap, grasped
Charlie, and caught the collar of Mr. Rita’s coat. A struggle ensued in I
perfect darkness. The gentleman cried out, “ I hold the medium,” and
others entered the cabinet to assist in catching the two struggling
mediums. Heavy blows were given and received, and furniture was
broken. As at last a light was struck, the two mediums tried to escape
out of the room, but luckily the lady of the house had shut the front j
door, so that they were again seized, and brought into the room and
searched, notwithstanding their courageous powers of defence, for some j
of the gentlemen who held them can give proof of their muscular force.
Williams, chiefly, was foaming with rage. Rita resisted less. The
| following objects were found on the mediums, but hidden between their
j clothes, shirts, pockets, &c., &c.
I On Rita, a reddish-grey, nearly new beard (Charlie’s); three
I large handkerchiefs, one of them of muslin ; a very small ditto—he kept
in addition two for his own use; a bottle of phosphoric oil: the bottle
is of the size of an ordinary flat round scent bottle, convincing us that
the light of Charlie was nothing else.
On Williams, a black beard (very old, dirty, and used) sewed on
brown silk ribbons (John King’s); several yards of dirty, soiled, and
| very frequently used muslin; some muslin handkerchiefs, which served
without doubt as John’s turban, &c.; a bottle of phosphoric oil; a
small bottle of scent (for the perfume), in which particles of phosphorus
were found, which made us draw the conclusion that they used it for
cleaning their fingers after showing spirit lights in the cabinet. Mind
this, the beard and all the muslin very old, dirty, and been long used.
This is an important point to the English. Afterwards, on searching
Mr. Williams’s hand-bag, a small tube filled wjth very minute pieces of
j slate-pencil was found. These points fitted into a flat, thin fishbone or
j spring, serving probably to produce the phenomenon of writing between
j sealed slates, if room enough is left to introduce the instrument.
| Williams had the most complete apparel. After the finding of the
I above-mentioned objects, the two mediums looked perplexed. It was
j about twelve o’clock ; they were then turned out of doors, without trying
j to gain a better opinion for themselves by accepting the offer of some
! gentlemen to give a test seance to prove that they were mediums. In
fact, they ran away to The Hague next morning as early as possible,
j Such was Mr. V. Maurik’s communication as to the chief facts. Some
I points of less interest may be omitted, but they are of no value,
j Now as to my personal opinion of the matter. As you have them
| back, we feel that the duty rests upon us to warn you and other inves-
| tigators abroad. The facts stand. All the objects which were found
j are to be seen at Amsterdam. We feel sorry for ourselves, but also for
| the good true brethren in England, who for several years have treated
| Williams with all the kindness in their power. It is inconceivable how
I any person can be so heartless as to deal in such a manner with old and
I true Spiritualists, defenders of the cause in all honesty, in all truth.
Were it not for my twenty years’ investigation in the bosoms of quiet,
true-hearted, and fashionable families, with our own good, private Dutch
| mediums, who only offer us ordinary manifestations, and are not yet
j able to produce such “ miracles ” as described above, I should feel
j somewhat discouraged, and perhaps others would also. Let this history
! be a warning for ever to never sit again with public media without
absolute test conditions, that one may be sure of what is obtained. The
Religio-Philosophical Journal of America merits high appreciation for
its line of conduct, and I was just on the point of writing so to the
editor when these events happened. I hope they will print this account
in their columns for the benefit of our true American co-workers who,
like me, only seek truth, and prove they do so by catching the tricksters
and exposing them. If there is one thing worth admiration in this, it
is the shameless intrepidity with which such deception is practised in
the house of strangers. I don’t think they will do it; but should it
happen that one or both try to contradict any point about the conver-
1 sation I had with them in my room before they left Holland, I should
j not care to answer them. There was nobody present but the two
j mediums and myself. . . . Yes, the pure spirits were there to hear us,
| and they are the silent witnesses of what was spoken in that hour of
| inexpressible indignation to me; it made the tears come into my eyes,
! and my voice choke in my throat. So I had tried for years to spread the
| cause on the Continent by introducing public mediums to meet with
such an ending!
I know the spreading of truth cannot be separated from suffering, and
I feel strong enough to bear it; but it requires a great experience in
Spiritualism, and a conviction based on solid facts, to resist such shocks.
I Altogether, this incident makes me mistrust public mediums, who
| perhaps nearly all mix up genuine phenomena with tricks.*—Your
| brother in honest truthseeking, A. J. Riko.
Oude Molstraat, No. 8a, The Hague, Holland.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist?'
The Hague, September 15th, 1878.
! Sir,—We want to add a few lines to this startling history, and to
| express our disgust at the conduct of the mediums, chiefly that of
| Williams, who for so many years has been received at The Hague with
\ all possible friendship. It is totally incomprehensible how he could
! reward true workers and friends in such a way. May these men, for
| their own conscience’ sake, stop playing in such a way with the most
i sacred feelings, and may they promise this publicly and solemnly.
I “ You, Rita, avoid Williams; he exercises a bad psychological
j influence on you, and tries to be your master.”
| We do not deny that Williams and Rita are mediums ; but what-
| ever they produced as genuine media does not make this history right,
j and some of their manifestations become suspicious until they are
proved under the most stringent test conditions to honest Spiritualists.
* How about the ring history, when the Heme’s were from the party ? I think every
one knowing any detail about it must publish it. Let it be cleared up!
134
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 20, 1878.
We think that they are bound to do so chiefly to the Dutch. We will
see whether they can find courage for it, and whether the English
brethren will invite them to do so.
We hope that .Rita and Williams still possess some self-esteem.
We should advise the one to become an honest shopkeeper, and the
other to remain an honest workman, both earning their bread with
honest hands. If they do so, as we hope they will, the time may
come when they will feel redeemed from the sin they have committed
against humanity, for after punishment there is forgiveness for all who
elevate themselves.
But truth above all; and we must obey the impulse of our hearts,
and publicly warn the friends. Spiritualism must be kept pure, and
there would be no excuse for keeping silence about such deeds ; yet
let us pity the men who have committed them. This, the Dutch think,
is really the line of conduct of a true Spiritualist, and all true English
brethren will reach out the hands and unite with us. We expect this.
Several Dutch Spiritualists and Investigators.
Such is the much-to-be-regretted information just received
from The Hague. For a long time past we have ceased to
print, editorially, in these pages any official reports of
cabinet seances, but have recorded only those materialisation
stances in which the mediums gave sittings off their own j
premises, and had their hands held on both sides by respon¬
sible witnesses, without being released for one moment.
Such sittings both Williams and Rita have given in great
number in the houses of good critical witnesses at the
West-end of London, and the powerful results thus obtained
are not vitiated by the character of the mediums or of the
spirits about them. Nevertheless, our stringency in record¬
ing only those results in which the character of the medium
had not to be considered as a factor involved us in much
unpopularity with enthusiasts ; so, also, has our oft-repeated
advice to give up cabinet seances, and to accept no unusual
phenomena obtainable only on the premises of the medium.
At genuine materialisation seances, while the medium is
in one place, one or more forms, the duplicates in appear¬
ance of himself (his clothes being also sometimes duplicated),
begin to form near him. As each materialised form in¬
creases in weight, the weight of the medium decreases;
these duplicates of the medium do very wonderful things,
and claim to be spirits. Dr. Wyld and Mr. Serjeant Cox
think them to be the spirits of the mediums; enthusiastic
Spiritualists, who have seen them in a bad light, recognise them
as their uncles, aunts, and cousins with surprising facility,
and see marvels witnessed by nobody else at the same seance.
Our opinion is that one or more independent spirits are at
work as well as the spirit of the medium, and that these
independent spirits, having no material body of their own,
communicate under such conditions that they are obliged to
take on the form of the body of the medium. The spirits
who produce physical manifestations are sometimes far from
being saints, and in some cases are not averse to aiding
and abetting their mediums in imposture. Indeed, when
genuine mediums swindle the general public by turning
“ exposers,” and showing real manifestations as imposture,
the spirits still help them; and so have some reputedly
respectable men in America who lent their names to the
public performances of such sharpers. Although such
‘‘exposing” mediums are needy people, they have never
been able to expose how that portion of their own perform¬
ance is done which is not conjuring; no reward can bring
forth such exposure, because the impostors and their abettors
do not know themselves how the results are brought about.
For a long time it has been a puzzle to discover where the
white drapery about the “doubles ” comes from, although it
has been found out to be common stuff. In the case of
Williams and Rita it was about their persons, and in those
numerous test seances in which these two mediums were held
by both hands, yet the forms seen floating over the tables, if
the drapery and lamps were taken from the persons of the
mediums, a curious species of spiritual and • mortal
masquerading must have been going on. And in America,
in connection with undoubtedly genuine mediums and mani¬
festations, such masquerading gear has been seized. In
London, Mr. Wedgwood, the magistrate (in his own house),
and Captain James, recently took off all the clothes of one
medium, giving him others with no white stuff in them, yet
afterwards out of the cabinet came either the medium or his
“ double ” fully robed in white drapery, carried into the
cabinet probably by spirits. What the mediums know and
flo not know at the time it is impossible to say ; they are
jl mesmeric sensitives, constantly falling into trances during
J | seances, and occasionally at other times.
( We have never seen evidence of spirit identity given by a
! living, flexible face at a materialisation seance; the phenomena
[I of haunted houses and of some descriptions of writing
I mediumship furnish, however, strong proof of the presence of
| identifiable departed human beings. The intellect and
II morality connected with certain physical manifestations are
| sometimes very low, as in the grievous case now under
notice ; yet in the higher phases of mediumship, trance, and
clairvoyance they are often high, as in the inspirational
i poems of Lizzie Doten.
The British National Association of Spiritualists might do
| good service in this case of Messrs. Williams and Rita by
| deciding what should be done in the matter, what steps taken
| to let the public know that Spiritualists as a body are in no
! way responsible for the conduct of professional mediums, and
I what ought to be done to put down, with a strong hand, all
I temptation to such to resort to imposture in the future.
La Razon is a paper •which is issued at Toluca (Mexico), every
| month, and comprises a very fair statement of the objects of the
| periodical, which is destined to propagate the principles of free thought
! in Spiritualism.
j Mr. Colville’s Farewell Meeting.—-Mr. W. J. Colville will hold his
I! farewell meeting in London, before his departure for America, in the
| Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-street, W., this evening (Friday).
The proceedings commence punctually at eight o’clock. Mrs. Weldon
has kindly consented to preside and address the meeting. Mr. Colville
will deliver an inspirational discourse and poem, and reply to questions.
All Spiritualists and their friends who can make it convenient to attend
are invited to be present; admission free to all parts of the hall, except
reserved stalls. Doors open at 7.30 p.m.
Capt. R,. F. Burton, Her Majesty’s Consul at Trieste, honorary
J member of the British National Association of Spiritualists, is now in
! England, and will, during the month of December, read a paper at the
| fortnightly discussion meetings on “ Spiritualism in the East.” Capt.
I Burton’s name was some time ago, in the discussion on Theosophy,
alluded to as a probable assailant of the veracity of Madame Blavatsky
j with respect to the manners and complexion of the Todas. It appears,
I however, that he agrees in the main entirely with her statement of fact,
j Possibly some may desire to interrogate him on this subject.
Dr. Johnson’s Prayer.—The following prayer, clearly showing Dr.
! Johnson’s belief in Spiritualism, occurs amongst his Prayers and
| Meditations. It was written on the death of his wife in 1752:—“ Oh,
| Lord, Governor of heaven and earth, in whose hands are embodied and
j departed spirits, if Thou hast ordained the souls of the dead to minister
[ to the living, and appointed my departed wife to have care of me, grant
that I may enjoy the good effects of her attention and ministration,
whether exercised by appearance, impulses, dreams, or in any other
| manner agreeable to Thy government. Forgive my presumption,
i enlighten my ignorance, and, however meaner agents are employed,
grant me the blessed influences of Thy Holy Spirit, through Jesus
Christ, our Lord. Amen.” The Rev. George Strahan, D.D., Pre¬
bendary of Rochester and Yicar of Islington, in the advertisement to
the fourth edition of the Prayers and Meditations, inserts an elaborate
apology for the credibility of apparitions.—Oxford Edition of Johnson's
Works, Yol. ix., pp. 197 to 202.
A Spirit Foot.—Mr. H. D. Jencken, barrister-at-law, in the course
of a letter to us from Brighton, says:—“ On Saturday, the 21st August,
about half-past one p.m., we—that is Mrs. Berry, Mrs. Jencken, Miss
Barnsdale, myself, and my two little boys—were seated at luncheon in
the dining-room at Mrs. Berry’s house. The blinds were up, the three
windows open, and the sun shining into the room in all its lustre.
Suddenly loud raps spelt out, * Place the cardboard under the table.”
I was not aware that a cardboard had been prepared. . . . Miss Barns¬
dale immediately rose (wekeeping our seats), went into the next room,
returned with the card in her hand, showed us that the surface was
perfectly black, and at once placed it under the table, between Mrs.
Berry and Mrs. Jencken. We were then ordered by the alphabet—
spelt out by raps—to draw back our feet, and the ladies their dresses,
the prattle of the children continuing the whole time. In less than ten
minutes, during which time we went on with our luncheon, loud raps
came, spelling out, “ Take up the card.” Miss Barnsdale, who acted
as the intermediator between the unseen and visible guests, accordingly
took it up, when, to our great joy, in clear outline, every mould of the
planta visible, the print of a human foot was discovered to have been
impressed on the blackened card. This footprint, when examined by
a magnifying glass, was found to be perfect, every line visible—the
mould of the foot, the toes and the heel,- the very pores of the skin
clearly marked, such as may be seen on hard sand of the seashore when
the tide ebbs, and a barefooted child or woman happens to pass by.
The interest attaching to this incident became intensified on considering
the surrounding circumstances. What happened, happened in clear
daylight, without preparation or premeditation—the silent footprint
of the unheard and unknown visitor alone speaking, appealing to us,
and reminding us of the unseen world. It was unnecessary, as it is not
usual for ladies and gentlemen to sit at table without shoes and
stockinus, but every foot was held out for examination. I hear from
Mrs. Berry that she has had the foot photographed.”
Sept. 20, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
135
DANGEROUS ILLNESS OF PRINCE WITTGENSTEIN.
All English Spiritualists will regret to hear of the serious
illness of Prince Wittgenstein, who for so many years, both
in public and in private, has been an outspoken advocate of
the truths of Spiritualism. In the course of a private letter
to us, the Baroness von Vay says :—(i Do you know that my
dear friend and cousin the Prince Emile Wittgenstein is very
ill in Bavaria ? He has been in bed for weeks, has dreadful
headaches and fever—in fact, is dangerously ill. Pray re¬
commend him to the prayers of all good Spiritualists.”
RELIGION OF MAGIC.
(From Bonwick’s “ Fgyptian Belief and Modern Thought."')
Few things have more excited the wonder of Egyptologists than the
discovery of papyri containing magical texts and tormulse. They were
employed to ward off evil and bring good. They were of service to
the dead as well as to the living, since the dead were alive in another
world, to be influenced in their course there by the prayers and rites
of the faithful still dwelling by the Nile.
The Spiritualism, if such it may be called, of the ancients has been
little understood and much derided. Whatever folly and deceit were
connected with it, there was sense or fascination enough about it to
hold the greatest and wisest in its folds. Plato said that magic con¬
sisted in the worship of the gods ; and Psellus, that “ magic formed the
last part of the sacerdotal science.” Proclus the Platonist has the
following reasoning upon magic :—
“ As lovers gradually advance from that beauty which is apparent in
sensible forms, to that which is divine, so the ancient priests, when
they considered that there is a certain alliance and sympathy in
natural things to each other, and of things manifest to occult powers,
and discovered that all things subsist in all, they fabricated a sacred
science from this mutual sympathy and similarity. Now, the ancients,
having contemplated this mutual sympathy of things, applied for
occult purposes, both celestial and terrene natures, by means of which,
through a certain similitude, they deduced divine virtues into this
inferior abode.”
We notice this sympathy in objects, and call it chemical affinity,
natural attraction, &c. Swedenborg talked of correspondencies between
heaven and earth. Some philosophers, even in this age of blank
materialism, are beginning to recognise subtle influences in nature not
to be explained, but which in olden times formed the groundwork of
magic. In fact, as Dr. Carter Blake pithily has it, “ The nineteenth
century is not that which has observed the genesis of new, nor the
completion of the old, methods of thought.” If the ancients knew
but little of our mode of investigation into the secrets of nature, we
know less of their mode of research.
The ancients recognised the action of divinity on man through
sensible objects. But they believed in the power of man, under what is
called magic, to command the services of the gods. Magic is, then,
religion. “Magic was considered,” Deveria remarks, “'as a sacred
science or sacred art, inseparable from religion.” It is important, then,
says F. Lenormant, “to determine the influence which religious belief
of different peoples and of different ages have had upon it, and the
influence which in its turn it has exercised on these same beliefs.”
The power of magic with the Egyptians is thus spoken of by Jamb-
lichus: “ They, through the sacerdotal theurgy, announce that they
are able to ascend to more elevated and universal essences, and to those
that are established above fate, viz., to God and the Demiurgus : neither
employing matter, nor assuming any other things besides, except the
observation of a sensible time.” Thus, quoting Dr. Blake, “ Nearly all
the higher facts of Spiritualism are mere" repetitions of the conceptions j )!
of intellectual men in past generations.” Egyptian mystics could j j j
levitate, walk the air, handle fire, live under water, sustain great
pressure, harmlessly suffer mutilation, read the past, foretell the future,. j
make themselves invisible, and cure diseases. Their great priestly j j j
teachers were known as Rekh-get-amen. ,
Admission to the mysteries did not confer magical powers. These ! ]
depended upon two things : the possession of innate capacities, and the j
knowledge of certain formulae employed upon suitable circumstances. j
Divination, therefore, was" practised by those who had special gifts j
or faculties born with them, and carefully developed* by prayer and j
fasting, which kept down the grosser impulses of ihe soul. Justin j I
Martyr supposed Joseph a great proficient. To divine, however, the j (j
person must have an object by which to work, and must repeat ] j j
approved magical texts. Joseph’s divining cup was quite an Egyptian j j j
institution. Ezekiel notices the divining arrows without points. Books j |
of divination were common, like calendars of good and bad days. | j j
They divined then from the elements, trees, birds, &c.
Dreams were held important in certain cases. The dreams of 11 j
Pharaohs were interpreted according to fixed rule by special magicians. ! j j
A long story is hieroglyphically detailed on a granite monument at j J j
Napata, of the dream of King Amen-meri Nout. He thought he saw two i j
serpents, one on each side of him. The explanation afforded was this : | !
“ The land of the South shall be thine, thou shalt take the land of the j j
North.” This, we are told, came true. He was first King of Ethiopia, j; i
and then captured Memphis. The stone is called “ The Stele of the j i
Dream.” The gods sent the dream to the king, and gave the wise men j' i
the interpretation. j
Oracles were communipations from the gods to favoured persons, |1 !
that is, to mediums. They were delivered from the holy place of the j j j
temple, and by special priptesses. They evidenced prophetic powers j 1 •
clairvoyance, discerning of spirits, second sight, or whatever else that
faculty may be called, undoubtedly possessed by some, and, perhaps,
capable of development by exercise. But the ancients, like some
moderns, not content with simple and natural explanation, ascribed
the action to supernatural visitation, and so connected it with religion.
Spirits were believed to convey the information. It might bp Isis, or
Apollo, or the sainted dead.
The early Christians had no doubt of the reality of Egyptian oracles.
Among the believing fathers were' Tatian, Clemens Alexandrinus,
Chrysostom, Origen, Justin Martyr, Cyprian, Tertullian, Jerome, and
Augustine. It was natural for the last named, as an African, to place
credence in spiritualistic movements. He thus refers to the prophetic
power of the spirits.
“ They, for the most part, foretell what they are about to perform;
for often they received power to send diseases by vitiating the atmos¬
phere. Sometimes they predict what they foresee by natural signs,
which signs transcend human sense ; at others they learn, by outward
bodily tokens, human plans, even though unspoken, and thus foretell
things to the astonishment of those ignorant of the existence of such
plans.”
Spirits played a conspicuous part in Egyptian magic. They are
called godst of course. The Chaldean Magi believed in elementary
1 spirits, something between the divine and human, floating in air or
! water, existing in fire, or dwelling in caves and rocks. The Egyptians,
on the contrary, thought, says Lenormant, “ the possessing spirits, and
i the spectres who affright or torment the living, were damned souls
j come again to earth, betore being submitted to the annihilation of the
second death.” They believed what Swedenborgians and a crowd of
Spiritualists now believe in England and America.
They had no doubt about possession, any more than the Jews had
j at the time of the Gospels. J osephus assures us that his countrymen
were tormented by the spirits of the wicked dead possessing bodies,
j Maspero thus describes the Egyptian notion : “ The damned sought a
| human body to lodge there ; and, when finding it, overwhelmed it.with
! diseases, and sent it to murder and folly.” Allan Kardec, the re-incar-
i nationist, has another view of the case; saying, “ Since two spirits
i cannot inhabit simultaneously the same body, there is no such thing as
possession. But from the days of the pyramids to our own time, pos-
j session has been acknowledged. All sects of Christians have declared
I this belief.
Mr. Firman, the medium, is in Spain, and is expected back in Paris
I next Saturday.
j M. Constant, of Smyrna, is announced in Nature to be taking an
i active part in attempts to make the “positive” system of scientific
| research known among Oriental nations.
Mr. Constantine Delhez, a Viennese Spiritualist, gives lectures
almost daily in the Austrian Court of the Paris Exhibition, on “ Intel-
] lectual Gymnastics,” a system devised by him for the rapid and easy
j education of children. His home address is Singerstrasse 7, Vienna.
The Messager de Liege states that in consequence of a large number
j of Belgian Spiritualists having resorted to Paris during this month, the
; annual meeting of members of the Brussels Spiritualist Society will not
be held as usual.
! The Peterborough Standard, in its last issue, says It may interest
i many of our readers to learn that Mr. J. T. Markley, who left this city
i last spring, in connection with the London National Press, is now
j fulfilling an appointment at Horsham, as one of the special reporters of
j the Sussex Daily News, a well-known Brighton morning newspaper.”
La Nueva Fra is the title of a new monthly spiritual journal pub-
| lished at Vera Cruz (Mexico), which is the organ of the spiritual club
called after St. Augustine and St. Matthew. The literary section
I contains some really good lines of Spanish poetry by R. Menendez,
which may deserve, some day, translation into English. This paper
also contains a reply to the pastoral which the Roman Catholic Bishop
pf Vera Cruz has directed against Spiritualism.
The Boston Transcript of August 14th, 1878, says:—“No public
bequests are made in the will of the late Mrs. George B. Emerson. The
bulk of her property, consisting of real estate, stocks, bonds, &c., to the
amount of several hundred thousand dollars, goes to her daughter, Mrs.
Caroline F. Hare, wife of Colonel Robert Harford Hare. One domestic
receives ten thousand dols., and four others three hundred dols. each.
The little daughter of one of her friends receives two hundred dols.”
The Colonel Hare here referred to is son of the late Professor Hare, of
Philadelphia, well known to Spiritualists. He was in London recently
with his wife, and he has much of the talent and many of the genial
traits of his eminent father.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“Northbrook.”—We do not treat anonymous letters taking away the
characters of individuals as “private and confidential,” but as dis¬
graceful un-English documents condemnatory to the writers thereof. If
any more come, they will be sent on to the person slandered.
To Readers of The Spiritualist.—Until further notice all communications
intended for insertion in The Spiritualist should be addressed to Mr. W.
H. Harrison, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Orders for books and newspapers
may meanwhile be addressed to “ The Manager, Spiritualist Office, 38,
Great Russell-street, London.”
Correspondents who send communications from foreign countries are
requested to write all proper names distinctly. It is a common thing
for manuscript to arrive in a condition altogether unfit for publication
from indistinct writing and the difficulty of battling with the
eccentricities of the English language. After much labour is expenued
in making such communications readable, the authors sometimes think
they are entitled to a column of space to talk about errors due to their
having posted manuscript unfit for the printer’s hands,
136
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 20, 1878.
THE SPIRITUAL BODY.
We have received a volume of 198 pages, published by Longmans,
Green, and Co., and entitled, TM Spiritual Body, an essay in prose
and verse, by John Charles Earle. The writer is a Catholic, but he
accords closely with Spiritualists in his views. The following passages
from this work will be read with interest:—
“Friends have often written and spoken to me of the doctrine of the
spiritual body as a theory—a valuable theory—a plausible theory—an
ingenious theory, and the like. Now on this point I wish to save my¬
self from all misconception. I do not put it forward as a theory. I
should not run the risk of displeasing, startling, shocking, alienating
many, whose esteem I value, for the sake of a mere hypothesis. I
should not set myself apparently in opposition to authority for the
pleasure of propounding an individual fancy. It is, in my opinion, no
theory at all. It is no more a theory than immortal life, the atone¬
ment, or future judgment. It is a truth—a revealed truth—and one
which, though sadly overlaid and distorted, has been held by Christians
in all times, either unconsciously or in part. It belongs to the deposit
of the faith; it is essentially necessary to other truths of revelation,
imparting light to them and deriving light from their light. In this
sense, and no other, I write of it; and in this sense it must stand or fall.
“ The spiritual body being a perfect resemblance and reproduction,
under altered conditions, of the natural body, it might be expected that
it should retain the material impressions in which memory is supposed
to consist. Successive acts of consciousness leave indelible traces
within us. Every thought that rises in our minds is accomplished by
some molecular motions and displacements in the brain, and parts of
these are in some manner stored up in the brain-cells so as to produce
what may be called our physical memory. Other parts of these subtle
motions are communicated, we may believe, to the spiritual or unseen
body, and are stored up there, forming a memory which may be utilised
when that body is set free by death and better able to exercise its
functions. It will thus retain its hold on the past, and serve the grand
purpose of maintaining a continuous intelligent existence.* It is
memory above all things which constitutes our identity with our former
selves when we have passed from youth to age—for not one of the
material fibres which we then had any longer exists within us—and it
is memory, in like manner, which will in great part form the identity
between the individual in his after-life and the individual during his
probation on earth. Thus the doctrine of the spirit-body is closely con¬
nected with the ethics of mankind. We are writing daily our thoughts
and deeds on imperishable tablets. We shall be witnesses hereafter for
or against ourselves. Out of our own mouths shall we be judged. We
shall carry with us through the gates of death our condemnation or
acquittal.
■ When the petals of the mind close in sleep evening after evening,
the leaves are inscribed with the events of the day; and there is in man
a fearfully vivid power of reviving past impressions and memories
which we imagined were dead for ever. Memory, like will, must have
an organ, or it is a cypher. We shall carry with us into eternity the
elements of our own bliss or woe. Heaven, hell, and purgatory spring
out of the nature of things. They are, indeed, present as well as future.
They begin in time. We are all even now in one or the other of these
states. In the spiritual body the condition of the soul will only become
more defined, more intense. Remorse, despair, impenitence, a dis¬
turbed conscience, and the loss of the light of God’s countenance—
these are hell; and no figures of speech, no outward symbols of material
torment, can exaggerate the idea of suffering which such conditions
necessarily imply.
“ Nor is the notion of material pain in the next world to be excluded,
for the spirit-body in which we shall be clothed will be far more sus¬
ceptible of pain and pleasure than the body we now exhibit. The suf¬
ferings, however, of the world unseen will be spiritual in the main, and
the conclusions of our physical reasoning should be limited to their
proper sphere. Nor ought we to think of the triple division of the
future state of souls as so marked and absolute as to admit of
no degree in each compartment. They are convenient expressions
for theology to employ, and they express solemn, substantial
truths. Yet no one who reflects can doubt that the variety of
condition in the world of spirits will be greater than in the world of men.
Every shade of knowledge and of ignorance, of virtue and of vice, of
happiness and of misery, will be found in that illimitable country
whither we tend. The spiritual body also will, by its extreme subtlety
and perfect subjection to the rule of thought, have means of exhibiting
varieties of feeling such as at present we can but faintly imagine.
uIsaac Taylor, in his profound and masterly Physical Theory of
Another Life, thus enumerates the properties which ‘ may be regarded
as belonging to corporeity abstractedly, and which are likely to attach to
the future spiritual body. Such,’ he says, * manifestly are—the occu¬
pation of place, or a relationship to space and extension; the conscious¬
ness of equable motion, or a knowledge of time; the consciousness of
the properties of matter, or sensation; an active power over matter, to
originate motion ; the susceptibility to imaginative emotions, and to
mixed moral sentiments; and a defined, recognisable individuality.’
Spirits will also, no doubt, have the faculty of weaving in an instant,
out of the universal fluid of which all things are made, garments suited
to the sphere they intend to visit, and to execute the purpose on which
they may be bent.”
Theue is a life insurance agent from Chicago going round Virginia.
He talks about the dread messenger, the silent tomb, and cold death, as
though he was selling a patent spring mattress. He can weep like a
sprinkling cart, and his trademark is a red handkerchief with an onion
on it.—American Paper,
* The Unseen Universe,- or, Physical Speculations on a Future State, p. 109.
THE PASSAGE OF MATTER THROUGH MATTER.
To the Editor of “ The Banner of Light ” (August 31st).
Sib,—On Saturday evening last a party of fifteen persons met at the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. Holmes for the express purpose of trying
whether flowers could be obtained in a closed box.
The one I provided for the experiment was an ordinary deal box,
made of three-quarter inch wood, its size being about sixteen inches on
all sides. In the lid was inserted a small square of glass, which was
let in on the under side, and fixed securely with strips of wood nailed to
the box-lid. The box having been examined, and everybody satisfied
that nothing was in it, I fastened it with a padlock which had never
been out of my possession since purchased, and put the key in my
pocket. To meet the objection that the box might be opened in the
dark, it was thought desirable to attach a strip of paper to the side of
the box, uniting it with the lid. A piece of gummed paper was used for
the purpose, and a seal was attached to it at each end. In addition to
this, a gentleman stuck a piece of court-plaster in a similar way at
another place.
Everything being prepared, the light was about to be extinguished,
when Mrs. Thayer, who was the presiding genius of the occasion, said
she had forgotten to bring her handkerchief that she usually places on
the top of her head during her seances. This is done, she avers, “ to
protect her brain from the electrical action prevailing,’’ and prevent a
subsequent headache. Hereupon a gentleman took from his pocket a
parcel of Chinese paper handkerchiefs, and opening one offered it to
Mrs. Thayer, who remarked that only a silk handkerchief would answer
the purpose, and it was left lying upon the table. The light was now
turned out, and very soon a strong breeze was felt, and raps were heard,
apparently on the box. Singing was resorted to, and was continued
with intervals for full half an hour, but nothing more than an occasional
rap and movement of the box was observable. The general belief was
that nothing had taken place, and even Mrs. Thayer remarked that she
“ did not think they would be able to do anything to-night.” It was at
length agreed to look and see whether anything had taken place, and on
a light being struck an object was seen through the glass which some
thought to be flowers, and others a bird, but which, upon the box being
opened, was found to be the paper handkerchief, the pattern on which
had been mistaken in the dim light for flowers. The handkerchief was
lying unfolded, as it had been left upon the table.
After this the box was set aside, and on the light being extinguished
a number of choice flowers were very soon found upon the table, the
most remarkable of which were six very large white lilies. There were
also a large piece of fir tree and a bunch of crab apples, and a small
piece of blackberry bush containing some unripe fruit. Everything
appeared cool and freshly gathered, although Mrs. Thayer had been in
the room about two hours.
At the conclusion of the seance the certificate appended was signed by
those present, who were all impressed with the genuineness of what had
been witnessed, and the marvellous character of the same.
Robert Cooper.
Boston, August 26th, 1878.
This is to certify that we, the undersigned, were present at a seance
at No. 8, Davis-street, on the evening of August 24th, 1878, when the
phenomenon of matter passing through matter was conclusively demon¬
strated in the presence of Mrs. Thayer, the flower medium, by a paper
handkerchief being passed into a sealed and locked box.
Robert Cooper,
Charles Houghton,
J. L. Newman,
D. C. Densmore,
John Wetherbee,
Edna R. Houghton,
J. Nelson Holmes,
Jennie W. Holmes,
F. E. Crane,
L. H. Ross,
Mrs. Augustus Wilson,
Mrs. A. B. Lawrence,
Mrs. A. C. Sylands,
J. Martin.
The Experimental Research Committee of the British National As¬
sociation of Spiritualists have, at the special request of Mr. Charles
Blackburn, elected4Signor Enrico Rondi a member of that committee.
Death op a Somnambulist.—Mr. Payne held an inquest the other
morning, at the City Mortuary, as to the death of Ellen Cross, 21, bar¬
maid at the King’s Head public-house, Aldersgate-street, City, who was
found poisoned by carbolic acid. She retired to bed quite well, taking
with her a glass of lemonade, and when found in the morning she had
her clothes on, and was lying dead on the floor. A bottle and a glass
containing carbolic acid were found on the table of her room, and there
was no doubt that a dose of the poison had killed her. As to how she
came to take the acid was a mystery, but a fellow-servant of the
deceased said Cross was in the habit of getting out of bed in her sleep and
doing strange things—acting as though serving the customers at the bar.
An open verdict was returned.
A. Child with a Tail.—We have received from a correspondent
in Calcutta a photograph of a child which has all the appearance of
having been born with a caudal appendage. The correspondent, in
sending the photograph, writes :—“ I enclose a photograph, interesting
no doubt to the disciples of Darwin, of a child born with a tail a few
months ago in the tea districts of Darjeeling. Its parents are healthy
coolies, and this is the first of their family. The child has sensibility
in the tail, though as yet no power to wag it; but this is not con¬
sidered very remarkable, seeing that monkeys fresh from the virgin
forest have not for some time after their birth the ability to wag
theirs.” The photograph, as we have said, bears marks of being
genuine, and the correspondent is trustworthy, and not at all likely
to be the victim of or to perpetrate a hoax.—Dundee Advertiser.
Sept. 20, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
137
Egyptian Belief and Modern Thought. By James Bonwick, j
F.RGr.S. (C. Kegan Paul and Co.)
This work, which is a sequel to Pyramid Facts and Fancies,
by this well-known author and member of the Council of j
the National Association of Spiritualists, is a valuable con¬
tribution to the literature of Egyptology. The author assumes
as an initial position the idea that it is impossible to inter¬
pret rightly the mythology of ancient Egypt by a reference
to that of ancient Greece, Hindostan, or Syria. The latter
especially affords, perhaps, least grounds on which the precise
dogmas of the immortality of the soul can be identified with
those of the earlier religion. Moses, who was skilled in 11 all
the learning of the Egyptians,” possessed exactly just such
knowledge of the soul as the Egyptian hierophants had '
possessed before him. The funeral rites of the Egyptians
appear in all cases to have been framed by a nation who
were especially desirous that the soul after death should be
prayed for, and that the absent should in all cases receive
benefit from the prayers of the survivors. As Mr. Bon wick .
writes, after a body was interred,
The absent one was not lost. Below, far below, beneath the
very feet of visitors, in the rock-cut chamber, lay the mum¬
mied remains. But there was something not to be buried
and preserved. That something belonging to the deceased was
the object of affectionate regard. The body had received the care
which duty and love exacted. But that something else was asso¬
ciated with the visit of friends. The prayers were not directed to the 1
corpse. The offerings were not dedicated to the entombed. Supplica¬
tions rose in the mastabd for the spirits of dear ones. Offerings came ,
from the living to the living. The soul was a fact in the thought of
Egyptians. Apart from the body, however mysteriously associated
with it still, it could welcome tears and kisses, appreciate presents, and
be blessed by the gods in the entreaties of mourners.
The conception which the ancient Egyptians seem to have
possessed of Amenti (Hades), heaven, hell, and purgatory,
appears to have been the foundation of some of the prevalent
doctrines respecting a future life. Much of the popular
belief in England respecting the existence of spirits and of
ministering angels has not been derived from ancient Pagan
or Christian traditions, but is rather the outcome of the
mythology of the Miltonic period; and it is a matter for
surprise that a series of beliefs, whose origin and ancestry
cannot be traced back further than the seventeenth century,
should form the intellectual pabulum of so many intellectual
Englishmen. Yet it may be questioned whether the ideas
which are, to say the least, inherent among Englishmen
respecting the cosmogony of the earth, are in any way trace¬
able to the traditions of the Semite, or even of the Hamitic
nations. Egypt, which is essentially a Hamitic nation, ;
would not appear to English readers as the likely cradle of i
a pure spiritual mythology. The conception that some souls !
after death remained constantly, if not consciously, in j
Amenti (Hades) before pursuing their destination to heaven, <
hell, or purgatory ; the idea of the possible extinction of \
the life of the soul after death, and that the existence of j
human souls in states of happiness or misery subsequent to j i
their passage over the river of death was by no means a j \
necessity of death itself; both these are essentially Egyptian |1
traditions. i
The admiration which we may feel for “the fair humanities j
of old religion” does not blind us, in the case of the <
Egyptian mythology, to the fact that the soul was often J
grossly anthropomorphised. It was endowed with limbs j
and passions like unto those of man; and while we per- j
ceive in the Egyptian mythology little reference to the J
conception of a spirit which, after passing through succes- |
sive glorified states, may eventually return to the Deity who | j
created it, and of whom it is a part, we recognise nothing j
whatever which is akin to the latter and grosser conceptions |
by the Greeks and Romans of lares and manes. j
For the minute explanation of the details of the ancient |
Egyptian mythology, we must refer to Mr. Bonwick’s book |
itself, which abounds in detail, facts, and references, the j
compilation of a conscientious anthropologist, and genuine j
Spiritualist, who has endeavoured to trace in the ancient I
theories (following the example of the hierophants of Egypt, I
who were really adepts in the highest sense, and in direct |
communication with a genuine spirit world) the relationship !
j of older methods of thought to modern Spiritualism. At
| the present time, when even the most elementary know-
j j ledge of Egyptian hieroglyphics is confined to a small
* | number of persons, when the relationship they bear to the
11 languages and mythology of Assyria cannot be explained
11 without the invention of a supposititious “Accadian” people,
11 whose genesis is uncertain, whose history is unrecorded, and
! | whose creed respecting the destiny of the soul is unknown
' to us, the publication of a work like this, from the pen of a
| Spiritualist, marks an epoch in the history of European inter-
| pretations of the inscriptions of the land of the Pharaohs
! which deserves record, though it may not receive that full
| examination which the student of the records of Egypt can
! alone devote to it. It is much to be desired that every
j Spiritualist who claims to have a theory as to the possible
j position of the soul after death, should make himself
! thoroughly acquainted with the ideas on the subject
possessed by those from whom the great founder of the
Jewish religion derived his knowledge and experience of the
1 relations of man to the unseen.
.
On Tuesday next, September 24th, Dr. Carter Blake will deliver a
| lecture before the Marylebone Society of Inquirers into Spiritualism
at Quebec Hall, Great Quebec-street, at 8.30 p.m., on “Experimental
I Spiritualism.”
Artificial Memory.—A writer in the recent number of Mayfair
thus spoke of the method of Professor Stokes“ A peculiarity about
his system is its secrecy. The votaries who attend the mnemonical
shrine in Margaret-street, London, are bound by their word never to
reveal his system. And this obligation to secrecy is perfectly natural.
The mnemonical ‘ key ’ can be acquired by the dullest head within the
space of an hour, and if the invention—the labour of many years to
bring it to its present perfection—were not secured by some such plan
as this, unscrupulous pupils would speedily set up as teachers, and
the inventor would be ruined. Possessed of the secret key, quite a
universe of enterprise reveals itself to the novice. With a little
I practice, hundreds of words, names, or dates can be poured into the
| memory, and then pumped out in their proper sequence. Long rows
of figures can be trotted into the memory, and trotted out again with
ease. And it is all the same to the initiated whether he repeats them
backwards or forwards, or makes a start in the middle and travels up
or down. It is really a sensation worth, acquiring to be able in a
leisurely walk down Regent-street or the Strand to commit to memory
the names and trades of all the shops, and at the end of the thorough¬
fare to pour them out in their proper order, thus placing one on a
level with a trick that Macaulay was always vain of. A peculiar
prejudice exists against a man improving his memory. We are all
ready to own that in certain matters our memories are defective,
j but when it comes to the improvement of them it seems such a slur
upon our capacity to go to a memory doctor that few of us care to do
i it. There are many men of the highest capacity—men whom the
world would think the last to require artificial aid — who have,
Nicodemus-like, gone to Stokes at night and forbade him ever to speak
j of their visits in public. Quite different is it with Sir Stafford,
j Northeote. His keenest delight is to display the memory tricks he
j learned from Professor Stokes, and on one occasion at Exeter, in taking
a chair at a lecture, he did not himself disdain to illustrate the marvels
of mnemonics.”
A Curious Action.—In the First Division of the Court of Session,
Edinburgh, Lord Gifford has heard the case of James Bryce against
Joseph Agnew, surgeon dentist, Bath-street, Glasgow, for £500 damages
and expenses. It was stated that about November, IS^O, he entered
the employment of the defendant as an apprentice, and remained till
February, 1878. During the latter months of 1877, and in the begin-
| ning of 1878, the plaintiff, at the defendant’s request, went to his house
j at Crossbill every night. On these occasions the defendant induced the
I plaintiff to become the subject of experiments in magnetism. These
experiments consisted in placing large magnets in front of, behind, and
above the plaintiff’s head, which were also connected with his head by
means of magnetic chains. Besides these there were also rods of mag-
j netised metal placed about the room, and the plaintiff was made to hold
himself in such a position as to allow himself to fall under the influence
] of magnetism. These proceedings, and other experiments of a similar
nature, which the plaintiff was unable to describe, were repeated by the
| defendant for several days running, and frequently for about two hours
j at a time. The defendant enjoined upon the plaintiff the strictest
| secrecy as to the experiments, as well as to their nature and effect, and
particularly enjoined him not to tell his parents. During the progress of
i the experiments, and, it was alleged, in consequence thereof, the mind
j of the plaintiff became seriously affected, and about the end of February,
| 1878, he became insane, and on one or two occasions was apprehended
as a lunatic. His physical health was also shattered, and he was still
| suffering from the effects of the experiments. At the time when the
plaintiff entered the employment of the defendant it was said he was in
j perfectly good health, both of mind and body, and had been so all his
lifetime. The defendant said the boy acted in the capacity of page, and
j he (defendant) feeling interested in the subject of magnetic sleep, sub-
i jected him to some experiments, without producing any effect. It was
alleged that before entering the defendant’s service the plaintiff had
shown symptoms of insaniiy. The case has not concluded.—Bristol
Daily Post.
138
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 20, 1878.
PROFESSOR ZOLLNER’S EXPERIMENTS WITH DR.
SLADE.
In the second volume of his Scientific Papers (Wissen-
schaftliche Abhandlungen: Leipzig), lately published, Mr.
Zollner, Professor of Astronomy at Leipzig University, gives
a full account of his interesting experiments with Dr. Slade
in the presence of Professors Pechner, William Weber, and
W. Scheibner, of the Leipzig University.
Before relating his experiences, Mr. Zollner devotes some
one hundred pages to pointing out the defective nature of
that philosophy which decides a priori that certain things
cannot take place, and he cites, among other examples, the
fact, now universally admitted, of the fall of meteoric stones,
and the discovery of planets where it had been positively
asserted that planets could not be. In relation to these in¬
convenient occurrences, he quotes with much apparent plea¬
sure the phrase produced by a “ four-dimensional being”
upon a slate in Mr. Slade’s presence, (i men’s doubts cannot
change a fact; a fact can change men’s doubts.”
In order that a future generation, as well as the present,
may be fully aware of the manner in which Spiritualistic
facts have been received by men of science and the news¬
paper press, Mr. Zollner reproduces from the “ organ of the
German party of progress,” the Berlin Volkszeitung, of
December 18 and 21, 1877, two articles in which Slade is
denounced as an impostor and conjuror, and the Leipzig
professors as his “ colleagues,” in the usual press fashion.
He gives further, for the benefit of his German readers, the
history of Slade’s treatment by Professor Lankester, whom |
he describes as a u young man who received his scientific |
training in the Psychological Institute at Leipzig, and who !
is remembered by his teacher, Professor Ludwig, as an
excitable and conceited youth.” The whole of the corre- I
spondence in the Times, with the incident at the Glasgow
meeting of the British Association with which it was con- I
nected, is faithfully reproduced, with the original letters in j
foot-notes ; also a resume of the proceedings at Bow-street, |
under the name of “ Witch-trial jn London (1876),” in
parallel columns with a Witch-trial at Leipzig (1600— j
1700),” with a view to delivering his contemporaries, as Pro- j
lessor Zollner jokingly remarks, from the “ delusion of the \
intellectual and moral progress of the nineteenth century.” j
Even the appeal case is added, with the names of the Middle¬
sex magistrates; and lastly, Dr. Slade’s offer to Professor
Lankester to give him twelve free sittings, which that gentle¬
man so politely ignored. Slade’s experiences in Berlin |
conclude the chapter.
The following are extracts from Professor Zollner’s
account of his own experiments :—
u On the 15th November, 1877, at five o’clock in the j
afternoon, Slade came to Leipzig for the first time, and
took a room in the Palmtree Hotel {Palmbaum), which had
been ordered for him by two of my friends, at whose invita¬
tion he had come here from Berlin. Although I was not a
stranger to the literature of Spiritualism, I bad hitherto !
declined to occupy myself personally with its asserted j
phenomena, because, in the first place, I was quite satis¬
fied to leave these for the present in the hands of two such j
excellent and unprejudiced observers as Crookes and Wal¬
lace; and, secondly, because my time was already fully j
occupied with my physical researches. Still, I had no
reason for refusing the request of my friends to use so
convenient an opportunity as the present, and at least to i
have a look at Slade. I therefore accompanied my two j
friends on a visit to him on the evening of his arrival, j
without the least intention, however, of taking part in a
sitting, or even of arranging one.
“ Slade came alone to Leipzig. He had left his niece (the j
daughter of his deceased wife’s sister) as well as his secre¬
tary, Mr. Simmons, and his daughter, which three persons j
accompanied him on his travels, in Berlin, at the Hotel
Kronprinz; these persons are, therefore, wholly unknown
to me.
“The personal impression which Slade made upon me
was a favourable one. His demeanour was modest and
reserved, and his conversation (he spoke only English) was
quiet and discreet I asked him whether he had ever
/tried to influence a magnetic needle, for I remembered that
Professor Fechner had observed a similar phenomenon with
Erdmann, the deceased professor of chemistry at the Leipzig
University, in the presence of a certain Madame Ruf, a
sensitive whom Reichenbach had introduced to those
| gentlemen.”
(Then follows a transcript of the said experiment from
| Fechner’s book on The Last Days of Od Science, &c.—a fact
| which Mr. Zollner considers of the highest interest to all
true men of science.) He continues :—
“ This account awakened in me the desire to experiment
with Slade in the same direction ; and as the next evening a
| usual weekly meeting of friends was to take place at my
i house, I invited Mr. Slade to come and take a cup of tea
with us. I explained to him that we should be quite
satisfied if he could produce nothing but the divergence of
a magnetic needle under conditions which would preclude
all notion of suspicion even for the most distant bystanders,
j Slade accepted my invitation, and was even ready to come
! at once to my house in company with one of my friends. I
j wished to make sure of the experiment that evening, in
I order to guarantee its success the following day in the
presence of my friends. This intention I of course did not
intimate to Slade.
“ Arrived at my dwelling, my friend asked whether I had
| a compass at hand. I brought a celestial globe, in the stand
| of which a compass was fixed, and placed it on the table.
At our request Slade moved his hand horizontally across the
| closely-fitting glass cover of the magnet-case. The needle
remained immovable, and I concluded from this that Slade
had no magnet concealed beneath his skin. On a second
trial, which was made immediately afterwards, the needle
| was violently agitated in a manner which could only be the
| result of strong magnetic power.
‘ * This observation decided my position towards Mr. Slade.
I had here to do with a fact which confirmed the observations
| of Fechner, and was, therefore, worthy of further investi-
I gation.
“ The next evening (Friday, Nov. 16th, 1877) I placed a
| card-table, with four chairs, in a room which Slade had not
j yet entered. After Fechner, Professor Braune, Slade, and
myself were seated, and had placed our interlinked hands
upon the table, there were raps in the table. Two
| hours previously I had bought a slate and marked it; on
this the writing began in the usual manner. My pocket-
knife, which I had lent to Slade to cut off a fragment of
pencil, was laid upon the slate, and while Slade was placing
the slate partially under the flap of the table, the knife was
suddenly projected to the height of one foot, and then thrown
| down upon the table On repeating the experiment,
| it was found that the fragment of pencil, against the position
| of which we made a mark, remained in the same place on
| the slate. The double slate, after being well cleaned, and
a piece of pencil was placed in it, was then held by Slade
] over the head of Professor Braune. The scratching was soon
| heard, and when the slate was opened, a long piece of writing
was found upon it.
“ While this was going on, a bed which stood in the room
behind a screen suddenly moved about two feet from the
wall, pushing the screen outwards. Slade was more than
I four feet distant from the bed, had his back turned towards
it, and his legs crossed : this was visible to all. I then
returned the bed to its original place.
<c A second sitting took place immediately with Professor
Weber, Scheibner, and myself. While experiments similar
I to those first described were being successfully made, a
violent crack was suddenly heard, as in the discharging
| of a large battery of Leyden jars. On turning, with
| some alarm, in the direction of the sound, the before-
mentioned screen fell apart in two pieces. The strong
wooden screws, half an inch thick, were torn from above and
below, without any visible contact of Slade with the screen,
j The parts broken were at least five feet removed from Slade,
who had his back to the screen; but, even if he had in¬
tended to tear it down by a cleverly-devised sideward
motion, it would have been necessary to fasten it on the
opposite side. As it was, the screen stood quite unattached,
| and the grain of the wood being parallel to the axis of the
cylindrical wooden fastenings, the wrenching asunder could
only be accomplisned by a force acting longitudinally to the
Sept. 20, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
1S9
part in question. We were all astonished at this unexpected j
manifestation of enormous mechanical force, and asked
Slade what it all meant; but he only shrugged his shoulders, I
saying that such phenomena occasionally, though somewhat |
rarely, occurred in his presence. As he spoke he placed,
while still standing, a piece of slate pencil on the polished I
surface of the table, laid over it a slate purchased and just I
cleaned by myself, and pressed the five spread fingers of j
his right hand on the upper surface of the slate, while his j
left hand rested on the centre of the table. Writing began j
on the inner surface of the slate, and when Slade turned it j
up the following sentence was written in English : “It was
not our intention to do harm ; forgive what has happened.”
We were the more surprised at the production of the writing !
under these circumstances, for we particularly observed that
both Slade’s hands remained quite motionless while the
writing was going on.
“ The above-mentioned phenomena, which we witnessed at
our first meeting with Slade, appeared to me and my friends
so extraordinary and so much at variance with all our former
conceptions, that William Weber and myself resolved to
give some of our colleagues the opportunity of testifying to
them. We therefore went the next day to Professor 0.
Ludwig and informed him of the facts. The interest which
he took in the subject encouraged me to invite two other
friends to come to my house the next day, Sunday, Nov.
18th, to judge for themselves in the presence of Slade. I
proposed my colleagues, Herr G-eheimrath Thiersch, surgeon,
and Herr Wundt, Professor of Philosophy, in which choice
Herr Ludwig fully concurred.
. “ On Sunday, the 18th November, at three o’clock in the
afternoon, these three gentlemen met at my house. I had
purchased the previous day a new walnut wood card-table
from a cabinetmaker in this town, named J. G. Ritter, and
had put it in the place of the table used at the former
sitting. The slates, single and folding, which we placed at
Slade’s disposal were bought by myself and my friends, and
were marked by us. There were present at the stance only
Herr Geheimrath Thiersch, C. Ludwig, and Prof. Wundt.
After half an hour’s sitting they left the room ; of the
phenomena observed by them I will only mention that related
to me by Herr Thiersch, viz., a successful experiment similar
to my own with my pocket-knife, and, in addition, that be¬
tween the folds of a double slate, which Slade held in his
right hand over the table in view of all, three sentences were
written in the English, French, and German languages, each
one in a different handwriting. The slate remains ^in my
possession, and affords opportunity for investigation with
regard to the question of previous preparation.
• “ It is to be understood that the present relation of facts in
no way presupposes a judgment in the minds of my colleagues
as regard the causes of the phenomena. I perfectly agree
with the Imperial Court conjuror, Herr Bellachini, whose
testimony concerning Slade begins with the following
words :—
I hereby declare it to be a rash act to form any conclusion with
regard to the objective mediumistic performances of the American,
Mr. Henry Slade, even with the minutest observation, after one sitting
only.
“ Slade returned the same afternoon about six o’clock to
Berlin. All that had been observed in his presence appeared
to me and my friends to be of so interesting a nature, and so
entirely worthy of further investigation, that we thankfully
and willingly accepted the offer of my friend, Mr. Oscar von
Hoffmann, to invite Slade to spend a longer time in Leipzig
as his guest, that he might be thus withdrawn from all
publicity, and placed entirely at our disposal for the purposes
of scientific research. In cousequence of this invitation,
Slade came a second time alone to Leipzig, on Monday, 10 th
December, 1877, and took up his appointed quarters in the
house of my friend.”
(To be continued.)
The Cambridge Express of September 14th has two letters in favour
of Spiritualism, occupying a column and a half, signed “ Veritas ” and
“ A Christian Spiritualist.’’
Ma. and Mrs. Fletcher are in Paris, and will return to London
about the 30th September. Mr. J. P. Turner, of Leamington, is also
on a visit to Paris.
ADDRESS BY MR. W. J. COLVILLE.
On Saturday afternoon, September 14th, Mr. W. J.
Colville gave a farewell address at 38, Great Russell-street,
to the members of the National Association of Spiritualists,
previous to his expected departure for the United States.
There was a good attendance of members and friends. Among
those present were Captain R. F. Burton, H.M. Consul at
Trieste, Mrs. Burton, Captain James, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr.
D. G. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. J. F. Colling-
wood, F.G.S., Rev. W. W. Newbould, M.A., F.L.S., Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. C. C.
Massey, Madame de Steiger, Mrs. Ellis, Mr. Luke Burke,
Mr. R. P. Thomas, Miss Mackay, and Mr. M. J. Walhouse.
The Secretary stated that a number of questions on
spiritual matters had lately been handed to her by a member
of the Council, which had been sent to him by a Hindoo
student of Spiritualism, with a request that they might be
publicly answered. It had been suggested that the present
was a favourable opportunity for obtaining information on
the subjects indicated, and, therefore, the permission of the
audience was requested that these questions should be put
seriatim to Mr. Colville’s guides. No one but the secretary
and gentleman mentioned had seen the questions.
(The answers, some of which were given at considerable
length, are here much abbreviated, the chief points only
being noted.)
QueSi 1.—Is it in the power of spirits who are said to keep
a constant watch over us, and to guide us, to improve the
temporal conditions of the man seeking their aid ?
Ans.—As to the question of the interference of spirits in
our temporal affairs, knowing as we do how temporal con¬
ditions affect either for good or evil the nature of every man,
it is natural to suppose that spirits will endeavour to rule
our lives in such a way as to develop most readily the
spiritual part of our nature. If you desire to attract high
and noble spirits, you must see that your physical life is
such as will conduce to your highest spiritual development;
that is, that all your surroundings are, as far as possible, in
accordance with natural law, and that the harmony of your
whole being is maintained. The lower spirits will then have
but little power, as they can only control persons through
the degraded side of their nature; they cannot touch a good
man, and the higher spirits will come to you as your life
grows pure and holy. Spirits have a much clearer vision
than mortals, and can more easily discern the workings of
the laws of cause and effect; they know what is before and
after better than you; consequently they can sometimes
give you valuable advice with regard to material matter. It
is well to listen to it without, of course, resigning your
common sense, treating it as you would do the counsel of a
dear friend, older and wiser than yourself.
Q. 2.—What is the state of the wicked persons who form
by far the bulk of the tenants of our globe in the spirit
world, and how are they treated and dealt with there ?
Must they suffer no punishment for their wicked actions
whilst in the flesh ?
A.—In the spirit world, as here, the laws of cause and
effect are always at work. Your earthly life will decide
what your heavenly life will be; according to the efforts
you have made to resist temptation and to live a pure inner
life, you will be rewarded or punished. You will not be
| judged by what man has thought to be your life, but by
what it has been in the eyes of the angels. Every hour
| you are preparing your future home—“ laying up for your¬
selves treasures in heaven.” Your destiny there will be the
| result of your life here. The wicked will then see clearly
the results of their evil acts, and their remorse will be their
| sufficient punishment.
Q. 3.—Are the mediums conscious of their own separate
identity while fully under the influence of spirits ?
A.—The degree of consciousness when in the trance state
differs with different mediums. In the case of our own
medium, for instance, sometimes he is quite unconscious,
sometimes only partially so, hearing his own speech as in a
dream. In deep trance, the spirit of the medium oc-
j casionally leaves the body and travels in spiritual realms of
| which he remembers nothing on his return. But we believe
that the soul is always active, and that consciousness is
140
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Sbpt. 20, 1878
never really absent from it. The body is frequently uncon- | j
scious, the soul never. I
Q. 4.—Can any of the most expert mediums explain by | j
the help of some exalted spirit why, in this world, one is j
born with a silver spoon in his inouth, while the other can- j
not get even the milk at the breast of his mother, exhausted |
and dying of starvation ? Why one is happy all his life, j
while the other is most miserable, labouring under some j
loathsome and incurable disease from his childhood ? Why j
one is in the enjoyment of bright intellect and keen moral j
perceptions, while the other is a blockhead and incorrigibly |
wicked and immoral ? A difference calculated to facilitate j
the future progress and happiness of the one, whilst in the |
case of the other to retard it through suffering and misery ? j j
A,—All souls born into the world are the offspring of j
angels, but not all in the same degree. One soul may j j
require one sort of discipline, undone another, according to jj j
its capabilities and the purpose for which Providence has I j
designed it. There is often more compensation in this life j j
than appears at first sight. Outwardly, there may be great j I
inequality of circumstances; but these often become adjusted j i
to the inner requirements, and a certain harmony is |
established between them. By this means the distribution j
of happiness becomes equalised ; that which is a pleasure at i
one period of a man’s development may be pain at another ; j j
and that which is necessary to the nature of one is a super- |
fluity to another. j j
Q. 5.—Why do the wicked, the vile, the merciless, and the j
selfish flourish in this world ; that is, they are blessed with !
all the happiness that this world can possibly afford to them |
in their respective spheres of life, such as health, riches, j
honour, &c., while the meek, the honest, the virtuous, and j
the kind-hearted suffer from ill-healtb, pinching poverty, I
and contempt from the men around them ? Even the most j j
piously-disposed persons can hardly discern the justice of j
God in such an anomalous dispensation. ! i
A.—If it were not for the reality of the spirit-world all I
this would appear very hard. In that world every trouble I i
suffered here will receive its recompense. Compensation is one ! |
of the great truths taught us in conjunction with the doctrine ! !
of an ai'ter-life. If here you have sorrow and tribulation, j J
there you will have <£ the fullness of joy;” and, in the same j j
way, if here you are rich and happy in the midst of sin, ! |
there you ■will be poor and desolate. ' j j
Q. 6.—Progression is said to be the great law of the j j j
universe. This I fully admit. But retrogression is as much | j j
a law discernible in the universe as progression. Minerals | j
rise into vegetables, vegetables into animals, and animals at j j
last rise into human organisations. But the bodies thus I |
progressed and developed sink down again into the earthly, | j
and last into elementary matter. Why should not developed | j
spirits in like manner retrograde and sink down to the lowest vf
types of existence in proportion to their lowness and de- Ijj
pravity ? j j j
A.—We should say"that there is no such thing as positive j |
retrogression. Man is immortal by reason of his individuality. |||
He cannot die. Animals, because they have no conscious j 11
individual life, are not immortal. By degrees the bad I |
elements will be refined away, the coarser forms will pass j j
from the earth as the first types of every form of life have j [ j
done, and will always continue to do. But man will pro- j j ]
gress infinitely, here and hereafter. Among a race of men yet j j |
to be born on earth there will be no death. The physical I j
body will gradually become more and more spiritualised, j i
until men’s ears will be able at all times to hear the Lord ! j j
“walking in his garden,” the world, “ in the cool of the jjj
day.” Death, as we understand the word, will be no more, l(!
for it will only be the painless passing from one world or j
state into another, as from this room to the next. I j j
Q. 7.—In the many and various communications said to 111
have come forth from the spirit worlds or spheres, how is it 11 ]
that the communicators are invariably found to be the in- I j j
habitants of Europe or America, or the celebrated writers 11 j
and philosophers of those countries exclusively, who once m
flourished in the communities to which those communications j (]
are especially addressed, and not persons of equal mental jrj
capacity and of equally pure morals and piety, but belonging j 11
to other nations? Nay, there does not appear a single m
allusion made in all those communications to any such i < i
I j | personages of other nationalities except, perhaps, to
I | Mohammed, who is so well known to the Christians, and
111 that very cursorily. It is alleged that in the spiritual com-
| ! munities beings of equal morals, whether high or low, and
| | equal mental capacity, are all found congregated together
| | (which exists even on earth), and, therefore, it is a great
| | mystery to me that there should be no such congregations
HI or communities of various other nationalities in the spiritual
| worlds and in heaven. How can this be explained ?
| A.—A medium will usually attract around him spirits of
| the same nationality as his own, because there is a bond of
sympathy between them, and because they find in his brain
the words and forms of speech they were themselves con-
| versant with on earth. The generality of your mediums are
j English or American; therefore, the spirits speaking
| through them are English or Americans. If you had a
| French medium you would get French spirits; in Italy,
I with Italian mediums, Italian would be spoken. For re-
| | member that the highest and most learned spirits rarely take
| | direct control of a medium; and a spirit is naturally attracted
j j to one possessing the same characteristics as himself, and
! | speaking the same language.
Q. 8.—How is it that while the modern spirit manifesta¬
tions so clearly establish and unfold to our view and reflection
I the future destiny and progress of man, and somewhat too
particularly the fact that the departed and the departing
human beings from this little globe of ours actually supply
the existence in the spirit world, they, the. spirits, who
make such communications, seem to be studiously silent
concerning a fact still more important and full of interest
for us to know, viz., the nature, forms, and future destiny
of the beings who people the innumerable other globes and
j worlds which we see shining around us all the night long ?
j If there be some clear and full Spiritualistic communica-
I tions made in respect to those beings, I shall be happy to
| know in what books they are to be found ?
| A.—(Change of gesture and manner of articulation were
II here distinctly observed in the medium.) Undoubtedly;
I although the spirits that manifest at your circles are those
j who have once inhabited your planet, attracted hither by a
j link of sympathy, there are spirits who could tell you of
| other forms of life existing in various other planets ; but you
I must wait until you have met with some of these spirits to
| obtain full particulars of life in the interstellar spheres.
| We may, however, tell you, in a few words, the present
| intellectual state of one or two of the principal planets. In
! Mercury, for instance, we find a much lower order of de-
| velopment than that which now exists on your earth. The
] inhabitants of Venus excel in poetry and art, and all that
| appeals to the sentimental part of man’s nature. The sons
! of Mars, on the contrary, are celebrated for their physical
/ strength and prowess rather than for their brain-power ; the
j inhabitants of Jupiter are the most advanced, mentally and
11 morally, of any of the planets. I know of no books in-
| spired by spirits on this subject to refer you to; but if you
I will form circles for the express purpose of entering into
11 communication with the denizens of other worlds, you will
(| soon have no cause to complain of lack of information.
| Q. 9.—It is an inexplicable mystery to me, as appears
11 from the works of Judge Edmonds, that while the spirits
11 from the higher spheres could convey the spirit of a .person,
| i in his or her vision, to some millions and millions of miles
| distance to show it the cosmogonic process of the creation
| and formation of a planet or star, they could not take the
11 same to see what the Emperor of China was doing in his
11 palace at Pekin, or the Viceroy of India in Calcutta. This
11 and similar other exploits they could perform with infinitely
) | more ease than the other, and yet there is not a single
11 instance I recollect of any of the higher spirits having done
11 so. How is this inconsistency to be accounted for ?
> j A.—It is entirely a question of conditions, and perhaps
11 those requisite were not afforded by the Emperor of China
11 or the Viceroy of India. The spirit of the medium travels
11 under guidance, and distance becomes as nothing. Spiritual
(i distance is measured by sympathy not by miles. Two men
11 in the same room may be immeasurably further apart than
11 two others situated at opposite ends of the universe ; and this
11 is true of spirits as of men.
H Q. 10.—I cannot yet understand that amongst a host of
Sept. 20, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
141
questions of mere curiosity for the marvellous, and not of
any practical public utility, very few indeed appear to me
here, from what I know to have as yet been asked, tending
to the alleviation of human misery. Amongst these I would
first ask of the spirits of some departed eminent physicians,
when the living ones on our globe fail to tell, concerning
the nature of, and the infallible remedies for, the various
kinds of epidemics, such as the plague and the Indian
cholera, which carry off thousands and thousands of human
beings every year ?
A.—It is comparatively easy for the spirit-world to find
remedies for your sicknesses, but it is not so easy to make
you use them. How many of you, on receiving a spirit-
prescription, would exclaim, “ Oh ! that is contrary to reason
and science, and I will not run the risk of letting my child die
by listening to such nonsense, and by not calling in a proper
medical adviser.” Spirits never waste time, and when you
are ready to attend to us, we shall be ready to help you.
Disease is the result of some foreign element being intro¬
duced into the body. The use of drugs will be finally
abolished, and all cures will be wrought by spiritural means.
By living purely, and according to the laws of health, you
will gradually lessen the possibilities of disease and the
necessity for medical remedies.
Q. 11.—There is a person here who, in his ordinary
normal condition, for he has never experienced a trance, or
has never been under the influence of what is called animal
magnetism, when he shuts his eyes actually sees before him
beautiful handwritings in different characters—Indian, Per¬
sian, and English, the Persian predominating, though he very
seldom reads in it—all flying and evanescent in appearance,
but each clear enough to be distinctly made out; beautiful
and ugly human faces, sometimes most brilliant and shining
in the dark, sometimes single pictures, and sometimes a
gallery of pictures; architectural buildings and structures of
the most beautiful, grand, and magnificent description, such
as he has never seen anywhere in his life; in short, all that
nature and art can show him ; and though not quite vivid
and bright, all vivid enough to engage his attention and
admiration for minutes and hours together. Now, I ask,
what does all this mean ? Is it the work of some spirit or
spirits, or is it a mere phantom or phantasmagoria ? I can
hardly incline myself to believe the latter, because of the
great skill and intelligence apparent in the nature of the
scene before the eyes of the beholder. Can this condition
be improved so as to inspire the beholder with a hope that
he may one day fall into a full spiritual trance, and turn
his present unintelligible and imperfect vision to some
beneficial purposes ? If so, by what means ?
A.—The individual is evidently a strong natural clair¬
voyant, and will eventually be able to see with his eyes open,
as Swedenborg and other seers are said to have done. Some
clairvoyants do not really travel or see actual things, but
pictorial representations of these things are shown them by
spirits. The gentleman in question should endeavour to
assist his development by living as simply as possible,
eating chiefly fruit, and living much in the sunlight;
he should never wear black, but dress in blue or some other
bright colour.
The questions sent for explanation being exhausted, and
a few others put by the company present having been
answered, the guides of the medium stated that they wished
it known that they were not withdrawing him from England
because he had not been appreciated here. On the contrary,
they felt he had been everywhere received with great kind¬
ness and cordiality, but that his journey to America would
materially assist in perfecting his mediumship, and that, in
the space of about two years, they hoped he would be again
speaking in these rooms with increased knowledge and
power. A cordial vote of thanks to Mr. Colville and
his guides, for the trouble they had taken on this and on
many previous occasions, was moved by Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald,
seconded by Dr. Carter Blake, and carried unanimously.
It was announced that Mr. Colville would speak for the
last time in London at Langham Hall, Great Portland-
street, on Friday evening, the 20th inst., at eight o’clock.
The Zouave Jacob, the ■well-known French healer, has sent out
invitations to a “ Soiree Musicale.”
I ! ©orreaponuence.
i (! [ Great freedom is offered to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
I (i opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
I (i be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
I (| are not anonymous.']  
j 11 AKT MAGIC AND SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—In drawing attention to such passages as I have quoted, and
11! shall quote, from the books entitled Art Magic and Ghost Land, I have
II no wish but to present the truth as seen and expressed by one claiming
| (| to be both a natural medium and a thoroughly trained “ adept.”
\ j | Having devoted many years to the acquisition of occult knowledge and
|) | magical power, the author may be supposed to know whereof he affirms.
! |! After more than one careful reading of his books, as given to us through
| j | the editorship, and with the endorsement of Mrs. Hardinge Britten,
i (1 there seems to me no question that much which is of great psychological
| j j interest is to be learned as he learned it. I think, also, that for such
i / j know ledge so obtained a price is demanded which it would be not only
| j j undesirable, but quite impossible, for most of us to pay. How far it is
I j | possible and desirable for Spiritualists, most of whom have active duties
III to perform in the everyday life, to pursue the study of so-called magical
j i science, with the arts it claims practically to teach, every one interested
j'i in such subjects must decide for himself or herself; and on this point
j | such persons will, as I think, find much to enlighten them in the pages
(j of the very ably and eloquently written books to which I have called
s | attention.
11 That it would be well for our modern mediums to learn how best to
| cultivate and most effectively to use their wonderful gifts, so that their
| j peculiar powers may be thoroughly developed and trained to the highest
11 uses, I suppose few thinking Spiritualists will question. They and we
(j have much to learn concerning the marvellous phenomena now so
) | familiar to us, which can be of real and lasting value only to those who
1 look behind the startling facts to the everlasting truths which they reveal
to eyes prepared to see and minds educated to receive them. “ Magic,”
| defined as “ the science of Spiritism,” that which teaches us to under-
1 stand and apply natural laws, can be objectionable to no rational
( Spiritualist; and while our author believes and teaches that it may
) supplement a deficiency in natural gifts, he also admits (Art Magic,
p. 103) that “ it would be as idle to tender it to the acceptance of those
( whose natural endowments supply them with the art it professes to teach,
) as to paint the cheek of the rose or blanch the lily white.”
I As to this power of supplying natural deficiencies, our author tells us
( elsewhere that none who did not manifest signs of innate magical
) endowments, or who after due preparation gave no evidence of the
I possession of medial faculties, were never elevated to the rank of adepts.
( That the discipline of which he speaks tended in many cases to increase
| j the natural powers we can easily imagine; and also can we well believe
II that the life led by most of our mediums is not that which is most con¬
ducive to the highest development of their peculiar gifts.
) However, as to abstinence and asceticism being essential to this
( higher development, we read on p. 232, “ In Egypt, as in India, the
] \ priestly caste included many grades, the highest of whom were the
i) i prophets, a class who were obviously synonymous with the modern
I ( spirit mediums; that is, persons in whom the gifts of the spirit were
j | implanted by nature, and that without processes of artistic culture.”
j) j Also, at p. 285, our author tells us that the normal mediumship of the
j | Hebrew captives, alluded to in the Book of Daniel, was “foundsuperior
j in truthful results to the arts of the instructed Magians *? and goes on
j) j to say, “ It is quite probable that if many of the stupendous claims set
( up for the magical practices of antiquity could be brought to a similar
II ] test, they would be found inferior to the true prophetic gifts which spring
) | from natural endowments.”
(I We can readily believe what is said on p. 291, viz., that it is because
j | the modern medium “ depends entirely on the spirits to do the work for
) i him, and offers no prepared conditions, either physically, mentally, or in
( i circumstantial surroundings,” that he fails to accomplish the wonders
jj wrought of old in Eastern lands. In what such preparation should
j h consist, only study, observation, and experience can teach us; but many
! (i among us are wisely humble enough, gladly and without prejudice, to
j j j avail ourselves of every ray which may possibly illuminate these doubtful
III points, let its source be what it may.
J (I As to the “ Elementaries,” of whom we have heard so much and seen
]) ] so little, the author of Art Magic declares that, although “ man rules
! (| potentially over all lower existences, woe to him who by seeking aid,
11 j counsel, or assistance from lower grades of being binds himself to them;
' i henceforth he may rest assured they will become his parasites and
I associates, and as their instincts—like those of the animal kingdom—
| are strong in the particular direction of their nature, they are powerful
| to disturb, annoy, prompt to evil, and avail themselves of the contact
induced by man’s invitation to drag him down to their own level.” We
| may, apparently then without great loss, dispense with those arts which
are said to bring us into communion with these mischievous beings,
who, we are told, “ can grant nothing that mortality ought to ask,” and
| content ourselves with the study of indubitable facts, patent to all, since
these alone offer so wide a field of investigation that we can never hope
in this life thoroughly to explore it. The Chevalier assures us (p. 337)
that “the most direct, normal, and harmonious spheres of communion,
are those which connect man and the spirits of ancestors; those whose
| impelling motives in each case are love, kindness, desire for spiritual
I light and progress on the one side, and the undying affection which
| survives the shock of death, and urges kind spirit friends to minister
| tenderly to those they have left behind on the other.”
| On page 449 we are told that “ the great marvel and special interest
which attaches to all these manifestations of spirit power in the nineteenth
century is their original spontaneity,” “it isiuthis spontaneity,” ho says,
“ and the vast abundance of the phenomena, that the modern movement
differs so widely from all preceding examples.” And on page 454 we
find the following suggestive queries:—“ Superficial commentators on
142
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 20, 1878.
this subject talk of the ‘ lost art of magic,’ and describe as impossible
achievements for modern Europeans or Americans the marvels enacted by
Hindoo fakeers, Egyptian dervishes, and Arabian santons, mediaeval
ecstatics, witches, and wizards; but what marvels are much greater
than the talking spirits whose truth and spiritual origin were so clearly
demonstrated at Koons’ spirit rooms, even as early as 1850 ?”—(Vide
Hardinge’s Modern American Spiritualism.) “ Does M. Jaccoliot give
one single marvel of Hindoo Spiritism that has not transpired in equal
force and greater abundance through the physical force mediums of
England and America?”
As to the sacrifices which must be made, and the suffering which
must be endured, by those who so devote themselves to the study of
magic as to acquire the power of working wonders by means of the
knowledge they have gained and the training they have undergone,
the Chevalier says (p. 338)—“ There were many who sank under the
tremendous discipline.” “ Those who survived and triumphantly
endured to the end were, as it was said, ‘often seen to weep, but
never to smile.’ Their youth, and all its blossoming fragrance, was
crushed out, and ever after they were stern, abstracted, and isolated
ascetics.”
And now, in conclusion, I think we may ask, in the words of our
author—*jf Which of our European or American aspirants for magical
power will subject themselves to- the discipline above described for
half a life-time, in order that the other half may be spent in per¬
forming deeds of glamour, deeds, too, that will wane in power, without
a continual exercise of the same rigid asceticism by which the power has
been procured?” - Louisa Andrews.
HEALING- MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—As I am shortly leaving for India, I think it only right to put
on record the facts of two cases in my own family which testify to the
healing powers of Mrs. Loomis, the healing medium, who has lately
commenced business in this city. For family reasons I do not append
my name to this letter, but I enclose my card and address as a guarantee
of good faith, and I authorise you to make use of same to any one who
is seeking after the truth.
ls£ Case.—A married sister of mine has been laid up with a most
painful internal complaint for many years, and when I returned from
India last March I found her so ill that the doctors had ordered her
removal to a hospital, as they could not give her the treatment and
nursing she required in her own home. She was in hospital over three
months, and left it no better than when she went in ; the doctors said
they could never entirely cure her, however they might temporarily
relieve her. After leaving the hospital she suffered dreadfully, and
quite despaired of ever being restored to health. In this state of affairs
I thought of applying to Mrs. Loomis. I sent a scrap of my sister’s
handwriting to Mrs. Loomis, and called afterwards by appoint¬
ment. Mrs. Loomis was mesmerised, and at once gave me a
correct diagnosis of my sister’s case, and said she could cure
her, but she must see her a few times. Meanwhile she asked
me to write to my sister to see if she were willing to come under
her treatment, and she would go and help her all she could. I
wrote to my sister, who agreed to try the treatment, and, strange to say,
added in her letter that she had suddenly felt so relieved and free from
pain that she hardly knew herself. On comparing the time, I found that
the improvement took place just after Mrs. Loomis, in her sleep, had pro¬
mised to go and help her. To shorten my story, I took Mrs. Loomis to
see my sister, and she at once began to improve. My sister has now
been under Mrs. Loomis’s care for five weeks, and is well, able to walk,
attend to business, and, in a word, is in better health than she has been
any time these fourteen years, when the symptoms of the complaint, now
removed, first developed themselves.
2nd Case.—An unmarried sister of mine has been deaf for seventeen
years, and has been examined and operated on by aurists and surgeons
without effect. All her wisdom teeth were removed on one occasion by
a surgeon, who said she was afflicted with throat deafness, which this
operation would remove, but which did her no good whatever. When
my married sister began to mend, I put the second one under Mrs.
Loomis’s care, and in three weeks the improvement in her hearing is
little short of marvellous. Mrs. Loomis assures me the deafness will be
entirely removed in a few weeks more ; for my own part, I do not doubt
it. I could tell you a great many more things as to Mrs. Loomis’s
extraordinary powers as a clairvoyants, but think the above sufficient to
prove that there is good in Spiritualism, which many seem to doubt.
I trust this letter may be the means of bringing relief to other
sufferers. M.
September 12 th. — ■—
strange lights.
Sir,—As a free-thinker I should like to bear testimony to certain
phenomena, of the genuineness of which, as they occurred in daylight, I
have no doubt. The cause is, of course, a matter for speculation, though
I am fully convinced it is independent of any known human agency, for
at present I do not accept the spiritualistic theory.
I have casually visited the Hackney Psychological Society, and have
heard rappings, and have seen a table of ordinary size move in a most
unaccountable manner in the daylight. But stranger than all, I called
on the secretary last Sunday, and when he and I sat alone in the
kitchen, discs of light, about the size of a dinner plate, of different
degrees of luminosity, seemingly emerged from an old straw hat
hanging on the wall, and floated several feet from it. I watched numbers
of them; no sooner did one disappear than it was succeeded by others.
When the, secretary was absent the manifestations continued. I should
think they bore some relation to the hat, because when I took that down,
during the short time I had afterwards to slay, I did not observe any
more lights. This latter result is not conclusive, and if it were, it does
not account for so strange a phenomenon in daylight, Joseph Coyle.
15, Mark-street, Stratford, September, 1878, .
j SECOND SIGHT IN THE HIGHLANDS OF SCOTLAND*
| BY DANIEL DE FOE.
I Me. Martin lately published a book, intituled, A Descrip-
| tion of the Western Isles of Scotland, called by the Ancient
| Geographers Hebrides. It contains many curious particulars,
11 relating to the natural and civil history of those islands,
[ | with a map of them; and in his preface he tells us that
»! perhaps it’s peculiar to those isles that they have never been
! I described, till now, by any man that was a native of the
[ | country, or had travelled them as himself has done ; and in
11 the conclusion of the said preface he tells us he has given
! | here such an account of the second sight as the nature of
[ the thing will bear, which has always been reckoned sufficient
i among the unbiassed part of mankind ; but for those that
! will not be satisfied they ought to oblige us with a new
| scheme, by which we may judge of matters of fact." The
j chief particulars he has given us concerning the second sight
! are here set down by way of abstract or epitome, that they
[ may not be too tedious to the reader.
I 1. In the second sight the vision makes such a lively im-
\ pression on the seers that they neither see nor think of any
| thing else but the vision as long as it continues. And then
II they appear pensive or jovial, according to the object which
i j was presented to them.
2. At the sight of a vision the eyelids of the person are
erected, and the eyes continue staring till the objects vanish,
j as has often been observed, by the author and others present.
3. There is one in Skye, an acquaintance of whom ob¬
served that when he sees a vision the inner part of his eye¬
lids turns so far upwards that after the object disappears he
must draw them down with his fingers, and sometimes em¬
ploys others to draw them down, which he finds to be much
the easier way.
| 4. The faculty of the second sight does not lineally descend
in a family, as some imagine; for he knows several parents
j that are endowed with it, but not their children ; and so on
the contrary. Neither is it acquired by any previous com-
| pact; and after a strict inquiry he could never learn from
any among them that this faculty was communicable any way
whatsoever.
Note.—That this account is differing from the account
that is given by Mr. Aubrey, a gentleman of the Royal
I Society ; and I think Mr. Martin’s reason here against the
i descent of this faculty from parents to children is not gene-
| rally conclusive. For though he may know parents endowed
| with it, and not children, and so vice versa; yet there may
| be parents who are endowed with it, being qualified as Mr.
| Aubrey has said (viz., both being second sighted, or even
I one to an extraordinary degree), whose children may have it
i by descent. And as to this faculty’s being any otherways
| communicable (since the accounts differ) I must leave it to
| a further examination.
5. The seer knows neither the object, time, nor place of a
| vision before it appears, and the same object is often seen by
| different persons living at a considerable distance from one
j another. The true way of judging as to the time and cir-
! cumstance of an object is by observation ; for several persons
I of judgment without this faculty are more capable to judge
I of the design of a vision than a novice that is a seer. As
| an object appears in the day or night, it will come to pass
| sooner or later accordingly.
6. If an object be seen early in the morning (which is
| not frequent), it will be accomplished in a few hours after-
| wards ; if at noon, it will commonly be accomplished that
j very day; if in the evening, perhaps that night; if after
candles be lighted, it will be accomplished that night; it’s
later always in accomplishment, by weeks, months, and
| sometimes years, according to the time of the night the
| vision is seen.
7. When a shroud is perceived about one, it’s a sure
| prognostic of death; the time is judged according to the
| height of it about the person; for if it be not seen above
| the middle, death is not to be expected for the space of a
j year, and perhaps some months longer; and as it is fre-
| quently seen to ascend higher towards the head, death is
| concluded to be at baud in a few days, if not hours, as^daily
| experience confirms. Examples of this kind were shown
1 * Extracted from T/iv History of the Life and Adventures of Mr, Duncan Campbell
(London, 1720.)
Sept. 20, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
143
the author, when the persons, of whom the observations were
made, enjoyed perfect health.
There was one instance lately of a prediction of this kind,
by a seer that was a novice, concerning the death of one of
the author’s acquaintance; this was communicated to a few
only, and with great confidence; the author being one of
the number did not in the least regard it, till the death of
the person, about the time foretold, confirmed to him the
certainty of the prediction. The foresaid novice is now a
skilful seer, as appears from many late instances. He lives
in the parish of St. Mary’s, the most northern in Skye.
8. If a woman be seen standing at a man’s left hand, it’s
a presage that she will be his wife, whether they are married
to others, or unmarried, at the time of the apparition.
9. It’s ordinary with them to see houses, gardens, and
trees in places void of all three, and this in process of time
uses to be accomplished; of which he gives an instance in
the Island of Skye.
10. To see a spark of fire fall upon one’s arm, or breast,
is a forerunner of a dead child to be seen in the arms of
those persons, of which there are several fresh instances.
To see a seat empty at the time of one’s sitting in it is a
presage of that person’s death quickly after.
When a novice, or one that has lately obtained the second
sight, sees a vision in the night-time without doors, and
comes near a fire he presently falls into a swoon.
Some find themselves, as it were, in a crowd of people,
having a corpse which they carry along with them; and
after such visions the seers come in sweating, and describe
the people that appeared; if there are any of their acquaint¬
ance among them, they give an account of their names, and
also of the bearers. But they know nothing concerning the
corpse.
All those that have the second sight do not always see
these visions at once, though they are together at the time ,*
but if one, who has this faculty, designedly touch his fellow
seer at the instant of a vision’s appearing, then the second
sees it as well as the first.
11. There is the way of foretelling death by a cry, that
they call taisk, which some call a wrath in the lowland.
They hear a loud cry without doors, exactly resembling the
voice of some particular person, whose death is foretold by
it, of which he gives a late instance, which happened in the
village Rigg in Skye Isle.
12. Things are also foretold by smelling sometimes, as
follows: Fish or flesh is frequently smelt in the fire, when
at the same time neither of the two are in the house, or, in
any probability like to be had in it, for some weeks or
months. This smell several persons have, who are endued
with the second sight, and it’s always accomplished soon after.
13. Children, horses, and cows have the second sight, as
well as men and women advanced in years.
That children see it, it is plain from their crying aloud at
the very instant that a corpse or any other vision appears to
an ordinary seer; of which he gives an instance in a child
when himself was present.
That horses likewise see it’s very plain from their violent
and sudden starting when the rider or seer in company with
them sees a vision of any kind by night or day. It’s ob¬
servable of a horse that he will not go forward that way
till he be led about at some distance from the common road,
and then he is in a sweat. He gives an instance of this in
a horse in the Isle of Skye.
That cows have the second sight appears from this ; that
if a woman milking a cow happens to see a vision by the
second sight, the cow runs away in a great fright at the same
time, and will not be pacified for some time after.
In reference to this Paracelsus> Tom. 9 l. de arte presaga,
writes thus : “ Horses also have their auguries, who perceive,
by their sight and smell, wandering spirits, witches, and
spectres, and the like things; and dogs both see and hear
the same.”
Here in the next place the author answers objections that
have lately been made against the reality of the second sight.
First, it’s objected that these seers are visionary and
melancholy people, who fancy they see things that do not
appear to them or anybody else.
He answers, The people of these isles, and particularly
thejseers, are very temperate, and their diet is simple and
moderate in quantity and quality; so that their brains are
not, in all probability, disordered by undigested fumes of
meat or drink. Both sexes are free from hysteric fits, con¬
vulsions, and several other distempers of that sort. There
are no madmen among them, nor any instance of self-
murder. It’s observed among them that a man drunk never
has a vision of the second sight; and he that is a visionary
would discover himself in other things as well as in that;
nor are such as have the second sight judged to be visionaries
by any of their friends or acquaintance.
Secondly, it’s objected that there are none among the
learned able to oblige the world with a satisfactory account
of these visions ; therefore they are not to be believed.
He answers, If every thing, of which the learned are not
able to give a satisfactory account, shall be. condemned as
false and impossible, we shall find many other things, gene¬
rally believed, which must be rejected as such.
Thirdly, it’s objected that the seers are impostors, and the
people who believe them are credulous, and easy to be im¬
posed upon.
He answers, The seers are generally illiterate and well-
meaning people, and altogether void of design; nor could he
ever learn that any of them made the least gain of it; neither
is it reputable among them to have that faculty. Beside,
the people of the isles are not so credulous as to believe an
impossibility before the thing foretold be accomplished ; but
when it actually comes to pass, afterwards it is not in their
power to deny it without offering violence to their senses
and reason. Beside, if the seers were deceivers, can it be
reasonable to imagine that all the islanders who have not
the second sight should combine together, and offer violence
to their understandings and senses, to force themselves to
believe a lie from age to age ? There are several persons
among them whose birth and education raise them above
the suspicion of concurring with an imposture merely to
gratify an illiterate and contemptible sort of persons. Nor
can a reasonable man believe that children, horses, and cows
could be engaged in a combination to persuade the world of
the reality of a second sight.
Every vision that is seen, comes exactly to pass, accord¬
ing to the rules of observation, though novices and heedless
persons do not always judge by those rules; concerning
which he gives instances.
There are visions seen by several persons, in whose days
they are not accomplished; and this is one of the reasons,
why some things have been seen, that are said never to have
come to pass ; and there are also several visions seen, which
are not understood till they are accomplished.
The second sight is not a late discovery, seen by one or
two in a corner, or a remote isle; but it’s seen by many
persons of both sexes, in several isles, separated about forty
or fifty leagues from one another : the inhabitants of many
of these isles never had the least converse by word or writing;
and this faculty of seeing visions having continued, as we
are informed by tradition, ever since the plantation of these
isles, without being disproved by the nicest sceptic after the
strictest inquiry, seems to be a clear proof of its reality.
It’s observable, that it was much more common twenty or
thirty years ago than at present; for one in ten does not see
it now that saw it then.
The second sight is not confined to the Western Isles alone,
the author having an account that it’s in several parts of
Holland, but particularly in Bommel, where a woman has
it, for which she is courted by some, and dreaded by others.
She sees a smoak about one’s face, which is the forerunner
of the death of a person so seen, and she actually foretold
the deaths of several that lived there. She was living in
that town a few winters ago.
The second sight is likewise in the Isle of Man, as appears
by this instance. Captain Leathes, the chief commander of
Bellfast in his voyage, 1690, lost thirteen men by a violent
storm, and upon his landing in the Isle of Man, an ancient
man, clerk to a parish there, told him immediately that he
had lost thirteen men there; the captain inquired how he
came to the knowledge of that; he answered that it was by
thirteen lights, which he had seen come into the churchyard
as Mr. Sacheverel tells us in his late description of the Isle
of Man. Note that this is like the sight of the corpse-candles
in Wales, which is also well attested.
144
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 20, 1878.
STRANGE ANTIPATHIES. i |
What jarring chord of the human fabric is sfruck, and how is it struck, j
to produce effects both involuntary and irresistible, similar to the | j
following striking manifestations of1 that unaccountable feeling of anti- | (
pathy to which so many persons are subject, and with instances of j |
which, in a modified form, perhaps, most people are acquainted ? i j j
Nothing is more remarkable in the youth of Peter the Great than the i (|
strong antipathy he then had for water. The sight and sound of it j j j
threw him into cold sweats and convulsions; but, ashamed of being the | (]
slave of an unmanly weakness, he determined to overcome it, and ulti- i (i
mately became as fond of the water as he had been averse to it. Boyle, ! | i
philosopher as he was, fell into convulsions on hearing the sound of I M
water running through a pipe; but, unlike the Czar Peter, he was un- i(j
able to conquer this troublesome antipathy. Charles d’Escaro, Bishop 11 i
of Langres, fainted at an eclipse of the moon, and remained insensible | (j
as. long as it lasted: when he was very old and infirm an eclipse took | j j
place; the venerable prelate went off as usual, but he never came to m
again. It was the inconvenient custom of Bacon always to faint at the | j j
commencement of a lunar eclipse. Erasmus, though a native of Rot- j i
terdam, had such an aversion to fish that the very smell of it threw I / i
him into a fever. Ambrose Pare tells us of another unlucky individual j (j
who could not see an eel without fainting. j > {
It is recorded of a boy who could not endure the sight of animal j i
food, and the smell of it when cooking was to him most disagreeable, j !
Until this youth was full sixteen years of age he had never eaten one I) |
ounce of animal food, nor could the most gnawing hunger have forced 11 j
him to partake of it, a whole week’s experiment having been made for j (i
that purpose, until sinldng nature showed that his antipathy was coeval j [ j
with existence. Julia, daughter of Frederick, King of Naples, could | j j
not taste flesh meat without serious accidents. M. Vaughiem, a great | (j
huntsman in Hanover, would faint, or, if he had sufficient time, would j) j
run away at the sight of “ a gaping pig.” Joseph Scaliger and Peter j j i
Abono could not drink milk. Cardan was horrified at the sight of eggs. | j I
Boyle tells us of a man who felt a natural abhorrence to honey. 11 j
Vladislaus, King of Poland, had an antipathy to the sight and smell ! j j
of apples. Duchesni, secretary to Francis I., used to stop his nostrils j j j
with bread if he saw an apple, to prevent an otherwise inevitable |} i
bleeding at the nose. Scaliger trembled and turned pale at the sight of | (|
water-cresses. j j
Amatus Lusitanus relates the case of a monk who fainted whenever | j |
he beheld a rose, and never quitted his cell when that flower was i J i
blooming. 11 j
Gretry, the composer, could not endure the scent of this queen of m
flowers, neither could Anne of Austria; the sight of it was too much for j (j
Lady Heneage, maid of honour to Queen Elizabeth; indeed, Sir Kenelm j | j
Dighy records that her cheek became blistered when some one laid a | (j
white rose upon it as she slept. A violet was a thing of horror to the I (
eyes of the Princess Lamballe. Scaliger mentions one of his relations i | j
who always fainted on beholding a lily. Pansy was an abomination to j j
an Earl of Barrymore, and a soldier otherwise valiant enough fled j (j
without shame from a sprig of rue. ! ? j
Henri III. could never sit in a room where there was a cat; neither \ (
could the Duke of Schomberg; and a gentleman at the Court of the | (
Emperor Ferdinand used to bleed copiously at the nose whenever he I)
heard a cat mew. Indeed, Dr. Bucknill says the antipathy to cats “is | (j
one of the most unquestionable and curious of the emotions of repulsion.’’ j (I
The Due d’Epernon fainted at the sight of a leveret, although a hare ! j j
did not produce the same effect. Marshal d’Albert could not endure j (j
the presence of a wild boar, nor even that of a sucking pig. M. de m
Laucre gives an account of a very brave officer who was so terrified j | j
at the sight of a mouse that he never dared to look at one unless he had j (i
a drawn sword in his hand. Tycho Brahe felt his limbs sink under him | j j
when he met either a fox or a hare. IJ j
The author of the Turkish Spy tells us that he would rather encounter ] (|
a lion in the desert of Arabia, provided he had but a sword in his hand, > j
than feel a spider crawling on him in the dark. He observes that there ) j
is no reason to be given for these secret dislikes, and humorously (j
attributes them to the doctrine of the transmigration of the soul. Mr. (i
Wm. Matthew, son of the Governor of Barbadoes, was also the subject / j
of an unreasonable dislike for spiders, which many of his friends (j
thought to be more affected than real. The Duke of Athole (then Mr. j (I
John Murray), meeting Mr. Matthew in company, and desiring to raise j ? ]'
a laugh at his expense, left the room for a short time. On returning he j <
went up to his victim with one hand closed. Believing the clenched i j j
fingers held a spider, Mr. Matthew became furious, drew his sword, i / j
and, but for the timely interposition of his friends, would have done j (
damage either to himself or his tormentor. in
James I. of England never overcame his horror of a drawn sword, j (j
and Sir Kenelm Digby narrates that the king shook so vehemently in m
knighting him that he would have run the point of his sword into the \) j
eye of the knight-elect if the Duke of Buckingham had not guided it 1
across his shoulder. (j
La Motte de Vayer could not endure the sound of musical instru- > I
ments, though he experienced the most lively pleasure whenever it J (j
thundered. Lord Lauderdale avowed he would rather hear a cat mew i (j
than listen to the best music in the world, and the better the music the I) j
more sick it made him; his especial aversions were the lute and the ! (I
bagpipes. Hippocrates mentions one Nicanor who swooned whenever j (
he heard a flute; and we read of a certain French officer who so j/ J
thoroughly hated the martial roll of the drum that he fell dead at the I (j
sound of a tattoo. j s j
An Englishman of the seventeenth century nearly expired whenever i > j
the fifty-third chapter of Isaiah was read to him. John Rol, a gentle- j t j
man of Alcantara, always fell into a syncope on hearing the word lana |) i
(wool) mentioned, although his cloak was made of that material, m
Zimmermann tells us of a lady who could not endure the feeling of silk i (j
and satin, and shuddered when touching the velvety skin of a peach.
Bishop Jewel.—The biographer of Bishop Jewel says that the
memory of the latter was such that, after committing his sermon to its
keeping, he could recite the whole discourse without disarranging a
single word, no matter how turbulent or hostile his audience. He used
to amuse his friends, amongst the number Bacon, by repeating, after a
single perusal, long strings of names, lists of uncouth words, and scraps
of grotesque sentences picked out at random from a dozen different
books, or selected from some such difficult language as the Welsh or
Irish. These he would repeat backwards, and at command could point
out the succession of any sentence or any name in the series.
A Secular Monastery.—Mr. Z. J. Pierart, former editor of the
Revue Spiritualiste, and author of the Benedictin de St. Maur,
announces in a recent number of that serial his intention of founding
a monastery or retreat for free-thinkers and those holding Spiritualist
views, in the hope that the foundations of a universal religion may thus
be laid, based upon facts proving the immortality of the soul. This
religion M. Pierart proposes to call Esseno-Druidism, as the principles
of the Essenes and the Druids may be said to have embraced all that is
essential for a complete religion and for worship. A building, to be
called the Villa of the Benedictin de St. Maur, situated near Paris, and
close to the ruins of an ancient Benedictine abbey, has been chosen
for the purpose. It is described as standing in extensive grounds, with
well-stocked gardens and orchards, and surrounded by high walls. All
candidates for admission must be over fifty years of age, and without
encumbrance. No Catholic priest will be admitted. M. Pierart says-
“ The universal religion, which unites in one sentiment of common faith
and fraternity men of goodwill from all parts of the globe, is the religion
which rests on the unshakable basis of the dogmas which are found
always identical and in agreement in each several religion. This
religion teaches:—As dogmas, belief in one God who is just, good—the
creator, governor, and preserver of all beings, and consequently their
rewarder and punisher; belief also in the immortality of the soul and
in the punishment or recompense for the acts which it has voluntarily
accomplished in the fullness of its own free will. As morals, the
following precepts: To love God above everything, and one’s neighbour
as one’s self; and not to do unto others that which we would not wish
to have done to ourselves. As practice, charity, prayer, and adoration,
both in a public and a private manner. All religions have taught these
dogmas and these precepts. They have also taught that there exists a
possible communion between souls which exist in the spiritual state and
those which are chained to the body; that between matter and God
there exists an hierarchical series of beings who are more or less
spiritualised, luminous, and powerful, according to the degree in which
they are separated from, or approach more or less to, the Divine essence;
that man has in his own conscience a criterion by the aid of which he
may he able to know the duties of the natural law, and that he may be
guided in this knowledge, and also sustained in the contests of his
terrestrial career by his shepherd, that is to say, by the angel-guardian
which God has attached to his destiny.” Such have been, according to
M. Pierart, the principles which have formed, since their origin, the
moral and religious inheritance of man. This was the primitive
religion. The worships which have placed dogmas above everything,
without adding anything essential, have not exhibited either intolerance
or fanaticism; their action has been good and salutary over the private
and social lives of peoples. Those which, on the contrary, have pro¬
pounded doctrines of which the result has been to destroy the simple
majesty of the primitive universal type, have been malevolent. They
ought, nevertheless, to be avoided, as being merely religions of the
individual, pernicious to the moral instincts of humanity.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A. ;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Sept. 20, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of "W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
ether.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committoe consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the 'early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia .
The Teacher. „ II. „ .
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . .
The Thinker. „ Y. „ . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. .
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . •
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) .
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers •
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures .....
*. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 5 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . •
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper .
Keys of the Creeds ......
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing In
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ....
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ....
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.n.j. Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B. A., Trm. Coll., Cam.
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D 
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . .
Awas-I-Hind,; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
g'anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . I . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, IF. (7.
Or of Messrs. Oolby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Orookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are. accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.’’—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immactniily.
Chapter III Materialisation ofSpirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV Materialisations ia England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine •— Descartes — Spinoza — Her bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter Vll The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. E. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opimons of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections te
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Vartey, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s.
London; W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edge*.
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
Oeneral Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight,—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II  From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III  From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writin f
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—^Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, andtopresentorlend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—" O! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumshipof
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Riohmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveal*
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta ’’—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryai
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burse—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D—Death. By Caroline A Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A, Oxon.”
—The Angel of Siience. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (EnnesfaUen)—Longfellow’s Position iu
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience.. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe,
Wallace, F R.G. S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 600 for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
for distribution at public meetings,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,’
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 20, 1878,
ir
A NEW'era.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATUKE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS
T ORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated1 the other
-Li day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
I ISO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Emptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
(YNO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
-TL “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have- left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact weuknown.”
J?NO’S' FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : jp.
li “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was ono of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.” '*
"WHAT. EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A'
GENERAL LiXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise,  
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. WOOD, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I bougntit. I had suffered more
crless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
out very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please.—I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Soli Agent 'or Paris-Pfl ARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
' Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-hewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joel”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Oaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.",
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘ a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 80,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal cf Photography.
‘‘The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as niinself... . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover. ... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear-
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the ragoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It-is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous,...
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.’’
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and- a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [A.R. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
| “ Wobblejaw Ballads,’’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
or
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d, per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—^Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER Vll:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S ,iritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress ot Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—^Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subieet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student!—Opposition to he Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State-Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance-Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, Londc n, E.O,
