KaeiSTKHHD AS A Newspapse.
SK© JOU^X®I< 0^ ©^YCfi0I<0G[ld®I< ^dll^^Csi.
toif^r S^xniualism m §rifaht,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON: n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kioscjue 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE': .37, Rue Florimont, BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS. U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 293. (Vol. XII.—No. 14.) LONDON : FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
©(intents.
The Characteristics of Miss Martineau ’.. 118
rSha Psychological Review ..   ’ 158
The Sensations of a Dying Man 159
Inquirers’ (Seances   ... 160
The Non-Eternity of Punishment. By Gerald Massey.
(Poetry)  S 160
Indian Mysticisms      ...'161
Isis Unveiled and the Todas    161
Experiments with Henry Slade at Leipzig 162
A Private Seance       162
Henry Slade’s Mediumship. By Ereidrich ZSliner, Pro¬
fessor of Astronomy at the University of Leipzig 163
Correspondence:—The Wail from the Statue of Memnon—
The “ Veil ” of Isis not a Veil—The Potential Immor¬
tality of the Soul and other Doctrines—Two Madame
Blavatsky’s—The Acquaintance of Madame H. P.
Blavatsky with Eastern Countries—Dr. W. B. Car¬
penter and Dr. F. G. Lee—Direct Spirit Drawing—
Crystallomancy—Clairvoyance—Spiritualism in East
London—Experiment versus Over-Speculation—The
Alleged Spirit of Nana Sahib—Indian Mysticisms—
An Inquirer’s Thoughts about Mediums—Misrepre¬
sentations of Spiritualists  164
Paraffin Moulds of Temporarily Materialised Spirit Hands 168
Answers to Correspondents 168
Paragraphs:—A' Testimonial to Dr. Peebles, 159; Mrs.
Lenere Cobb Wanted, 159 ; A Spiritualistic Soiree,
159; A Strange Girl, 159; Soulless Men, 159; Spirit¬
ualism in Beading, 162; The National Association of
Spiritualists          ... 162
", THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PBIOE TWOPENCE.
BSTA.BLISHKD IN 1869.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
88, GREAT BUSSELL STBEET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for April, 1878.
EASTER CLOSING.
The Offices at 38, Great Bussell-street, will be closed for the
Easter Holidays on Thursday, 18th inst., and re-opened on
Monday, 29th inst.
Friday, 5th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Monday, Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m. Paper by Mr. W. Newton on
“Faith versus Knowledge.”
Tuesday, 9th.—Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
,i „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m. Special
Council Meeting to follow. Motion b
Mrs. Lowe.
Wednesday, 19th.—Inquirers’ Seance at 8 p.m., Mr. W.
Eglinton, medium.
Friday, llth.—Library Committee, at 5.80 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Stance, at 7.30 p.m.
Monday, 15th.—Soiree Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ ., House and Offices Committee at 5.30 p.m.
Wednesday, nth.—Inquirers’ Seance at 8 p.m., Mr. Eglinton,
medium.
Tuesday, ZDfh.—General Purposes Committee, at 5 p.m.
SEANCES FOR INQUIRERS.
These Seances are now resumed, and will be held during
the present month on Wednesday evenings, except Wednesday,
3rd inst. Tickets can be purchased through Members of the
Association, who can purchase them at the price of 2s. 6d. for
Inquirers, Is. for Members.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ises in all the English-speaking eountries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness pHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. O. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adeima Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N..
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London”: Mr. S. O.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.R: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nos worthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling.
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson.'MD. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
■Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
LESSONS in French and Spanish, or English,
to Foreigners. Translations from the above Languages
aNo undertaken. Address by letter, Viola, care of Miss
Burke, 88, Great Russell-street, W.C.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughbokough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
R E C I T A T I O N S
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
During April and May, on
Wednesday Afternoons at 3 p.h. (beginning April loth), and
Saturday Evenings at 8.15 p.m. (beginning April 13th).
N.B.—There will he no recitation May 8th.
Tickets may be had at Mitchell’s library, 83, Old Bond- street;
Hayes's box office, 199, Regent-street; at the Hall ; or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of fourteen recitations, one and a half guineas each. Single
tickets—Stalls, 3s.; chairs, 2s. ; balcony. Is.
"THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advanca-
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
camagelpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
ASTROLOGY. " Worth its weight in gold.”
Every adult person living should purchase at once
“YOUR FUTURE FORETOLD,” a book of 144 pp., cloth, only
2s. 6d. London: Berger, Neweastle-street, and J. Burns ; or
post-free of E. Oasael, High-street, Watford, Herts. Instruc¬
tions to purchasers gratis.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER’S PAM¬
PHLET on Clairvoyance, price 4d. Also on Curative
Mesmerism, price 6d. To he had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-
gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
EDUCATION.—A Graduate of Cambridge,
who is an experienced Tutor, desires a few Boarders to
whom he may impart a superior education. Healthy locality,
comfortable home, <fec. Address, W. Stoddart, B.A., Gwydyr
House, Cambridge.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branehes. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W,
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
Now Ready, Price 2s. 6d.,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW
The Spiritualists' Quarterly, for April.
CONTENTS:—
Editor’s Address.
I. —Ethics of the New Age.
II. —Experiences of Astrology in India.
III. —Mystical Poetry.
IV. —Modern Materialism.
V.—Dante and Beatrice.
VI.—The Sentiment of Immortality.
VII.—A Seance with Mrs. Marshall.
VIII.—Pilgrimages in France. No. 1.—To Paray-le-Monial.
IX.—Psyeography.
X.—Buddhism and Christianity.
XI.—The Miracle Land.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE "MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find It a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &o., &c.;
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851'.—
29 & 30, Sonthampton-huildings, Chancery-lane, W.Cj
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 5, 1878,
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF ■
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Eitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jehcken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.   
Massey, O. C„ Bai'rister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C. .
Itogers, E. Dawson, Hose-villa, Church-end, FInchlev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D.,Douglas House, IS, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.'
Council.
Adshead, W. P.. Derby House, Belper.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,., _1 ^
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malapar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 84. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-nark, S.E.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-nill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louls-street, Leeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
-Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W„ 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson,Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Str'awbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redclifle-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock. St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Gxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-erescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Ahne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
Y hiie, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. H. Andre, Esq, H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior united Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.-
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenbqrg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de VEmpereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa. Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,CJ.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wlmille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-slreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wlttig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
II. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,I96, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn,New York,
■ U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes:Esq., 83, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., .30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W,. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Biyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-iane,
- * -s Dalston, London, E. ■
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. 7. Smart, "B, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can bo attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
TROLOGY, a Popular Sketch of
Celestial Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J.
Pearce, author of the Weather Guide. Book, <fcc. Price
Is. 6d. Sent post free by the author on receipt of stamps ;
address, 3, Cedars-terrace, Queen’s-road, South Lambeth, S.W.
The TEXT BOOK OF ASTROLOGY, by the same author,
is now preparing for publication. Vol. J. will contain the
complete rules, and all tables necessary for calculating Na¬
tivities on the Placidian method improved by Zadkiel, by
spherical trigonometry (the only reliable and truly scientific
method). To subscribers the price will be 7s. the first volume.
Intending subscribers will please send their orders to the
author.
Price Sixpence.
HE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
<fc., Historically and SdentificaUy Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s, 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the I
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex- I
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY AND Rich. London : Spirit¬
ualist Office.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
LEAYES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O,
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
  Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
   S.W.
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN
Healer jmd- Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
flours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes. 
MRS. C. E. BASSETT,
9, CHOBHAM TERRACE, CHOBHAM ROAD, STRATFORD,
1   LONDON, E.  
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
I'' W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
J# engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
CURATIYE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, <&c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. ratients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment. '
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter, 40, St. Mary’s-terrace, Maida-hill West, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8,d. per volume.
 London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O,
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 6s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
IVTEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
-AVjL VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Volume Tweeve. . Kumbeh Fourteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL Sth, 1878.
WAR.
Not a few persons conversant with Continental Courts, j
came to the conclusion some two or three years ago, that |
civilisation, education, railways, and free trade had so far |
extended their influence, that there could be no more wars
in Europe, and least of all was it expected that England
would be dragged into one. But more recently, when two !
semi-barbarous nations, on the outskirts of civilisation, j
began deluging a portion of the world with blood, our rulers
sought to plunge England into the fray, and for the first
time in the history of this country, were checked by those
who would have to pay nearly all the cost, and to take nearly
all the suffering. This first result was distasteful to military j
men tired of an inactive life and anxious to show society that
they have a stronger raison cTStre; it was distasteful to a
government anxious to postpone social and political reforms
of national benefit, and wishing to make a loophole through
which it could pour millions of money belonging to the pro¬
ductive classes. Besides, if it cannot manage to do this
now, the nation is growing too intelligent ever to let it !
have another chance. Hence, a great desire exists to fix upon
this Christian nation the crime of an aggressive war, on the
speculative theory that otherwise, at some problematical
date, we may be attacked; and some of the daily newspapers,
headed by the Daily Telegraph, have been manufacturing a
certain amount of public opinion out of the more ignorant
materials under their manipulation, although, as individuals'
grow more intelligent, such work is not so easy as it used to
be. The great thing was to persuade the masses that it is j
better to go to war, than to let the Russians remain near
Constantinople, a city through which nobody ever passes on
his way to India. And now our Government has gone so
far, that even Lord Derby has withdrawn the great weight j
of his character from its acts. Further, while the whole j
nation has a prospect of murderous throat-cutting work held
out before it, that obsequious branch of the Civil Service, !
the Church, is silent.
Some hold the opinion that warfare is a good corrective of
the sordid money-grubbing commercial spirit of the age, and
there might be some truth in this if a war caused some of
the houses of people of this class to fall rattling about their
ears; but the worst of the matter is, that those who sell
body and soul for the sake of vulgar wealth are not
liable to be attacked at home in a war like that now pro- !
posed. Besides, physical bravery is bravery of the lowest
type, and the days of respect for a prize-fighter or a cut¬
throat are nearly over. Many a man will march up to the
cannon’s mouth, who is afraid to speak out a new truth in
the face of public ridicule, or to take a strong moral position
under difficult circumstances, because to do so is right.
Great physical bravery may be allied to a marvellously weak
intellect.
A Royal Institution audience, which is one of the most
cultured and refined that this country can raise, some
time ago drowned the voice of Mr. Wallace—the critic of
Russian society—with applause, when he told them that
successful diplomacy and successful lying were synonymous
terms. And so they are. May the time not be far distant that
when diplomatists say to nations: “We have done our work,
now you go in and fight,” the nations will reply, “ You
have done the quarrelling, so we select you and the members
of our government, and one hundred of the military chiefs
who are clamouring for war, to do all the fighting yourselves.
We will put you in a circus, let you fight it out, and then
hang the survivors for murder.” When such times as these
dawn upon the world, it will show that the long-suffering
masses have become sufficiently educated to take care of j
themselves; political and diplomatic loafers will quickly |
become as rare as the dodo, to the great advantage 1
| of society, and of all honest people. As Lord Salisbury
j once said :— >
! <( There is nothing easier than to be brave with other people’s blood,
i or generous with other people’s money. If Her Majesty’s Government
j had, in the course of the war, to sacrifice all their own fortunes, and
] then to go into the field to be shot, you would fairly say that it was a
j brave and generous action for them to undertake such a war. But as
j long as these two duties fall, one of them exclusively, and the other
j mainly, upon other people, I dispute entirely the application of these
| two adjectives—brave and generous—to the act of the Government
| which plunges the nation into war.”
A powerful expression of opinion upon the many dangers
into which the little-known men now in the Cabinet are
precipitating the nation, was printed in last Tuesday’s
Times, above the well-known initials W. R. G.:—
“ I have asked every one I fancied would be likely to be able to give
an intelligent reply, what we were proposing to go to war for, and what
use we designed to make of our victory when we had won it. And I
have met with no man, however irritated or anti-Russian, who could
give me the slightest approach to a distinct and comprehensible
answer. Numbers were ready to fight as a vent for angry feelings, or
to avenge imaginary slights, or to prevent indefinite and remote
dangers, or to maintain menaced prestige. No one seemed to
have got one whit nearer than this to a principle, a purpose, or a
plan. Nobody declared, ‘We go to war to prevent the Black Sea
becoming a Russian lake,’ for it was too plain that this danger is in no
I way threatened ; or ‘ to prevent Russia from insisting on her slice of
I Bessarabia,’ for it is impossible to argue that this is specifically or
I primarily a British interest—rather too obviously a Roumanian or an
I Austrian one ; or that, even if it does indirectly concern us, it would
justify or be worth an obstinate and bloody contest that would cost in
I money alone tenfold the fee-simple of the territory; or ‘ to hinder
I Russia from obtaining a lodgment in Armenia or a free passage in
i common with other countries through the Dardanelles,’ because, though
these may be gains to Russia and additions to her strength, and, there-
j fore, conceivable dangers to us in some possible contingency, we are not
now so deeply imbedded in the rash and hateful policy of the past as
I voluntarily to rush into certain risk and actual suffering at once in order
| to avert a remote and improbable peril which we can face when it comes,
j and, if it comes, as well as now. Nor, finally, do I find any One bold
] enough or distinct enough in his conceptions as to the purposes to
j which he would apply his anticipated victory, as to avow that he would
proceed to set Turkey on her throne again and so stultify our past
inaction, or to place England in the false and discreditable and unwiso
position of appearing as the antagonist and oppressor of the nationalities
and provinces the liberator of which we have suffered Russia alone to
make herself. Do we know clearly enough what we want and what we
intend to warrant us in taking up arms ? Or, if we do know, how can
we be certain that we shall not be able to obtain our ends at least as
easily, and incomparably more cheaply, by negotiations and by
gentleness ? Otherwise, are we not on the verge of a great folly and
a great crime ? *
Everywhere among philosophical and thoughtful people
we have heard but one expression of opinion, and that is of
profound want of confidence in those who are now dragging
the nation into the crime of war, and of disapproval of the
way in which they are bullying Russia. Altogether, they
who are so committing the nation amount to but a small knot
of unknown persons, supported by a few newspaper men,
who are doing their best to sink their readers in taxation
and blood; and these few individuals are cheered on by a
number of military and naval men, looking forward to active
life with the same avidity as undertakers who have been
long out of work, but who do not sufficiently consider
whether their active employment adds to human happi¬
ness or intelligence.
That the opinions of the more thoughtful will have
supreme practical weight in the present crisis is not to be
expected. An organisation moves only in accordance with
the average ideas of its members, and these average ideas
harmonise tolerably well with the natural and manufactured
opinions of the nation at large, consequently will not be
Very high either in morality or intelligence. If a nation
were given good laws in advance of the time for such legisla¬
tion, the ruling power would be deemed to be transcendental
and unpractical, because the mass of the people could not
158
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apeil 5, 1878.
realise the ideals; such a governing power would, therefore,
be overthrown. Consequently, those in advance of their j
time must always be in a minority, and look on with sorrow j
while more commonplace people make havoc of the destinies j
of a great nation, and of the happiness of myriads of human j
beings doomed to pay the penalty of ignorance.
THE CHARACTERISTICS OF MISS MARTINEAU.
The following description of the characteristics of Miss j
Martineau, by Mr. Epes Sargent, is quoted from the Psycho- j
logical Review:—
It was my fortune to become personally acquainted with
Miss Martineau, when she was in Washington, in the winter
of 1834-5. We were both residing in Pennsylvania Avenue,
at opposite corners. We took long walks together from the i
capital to the President’s house. I presented her with a copy i
of the works of Mr. Webster, then the leading senator from i
Massachusetts. I did it in pursuance of a hint from Mr. <
Webster himself. In short we grew to be on very sociable j
terms, so far as a lady of her reputation and experience |
could naturally condescend to a young man considerably her
junior. She was so deaf that I could converse with her only J
by means of her ear-trumpet. She was at that time a jj
Unitarian, but I do not remember that we ever had any 11
religious discussions. Even then I think she concerned her- j
self little with Sectarian questions. My own tastes were |
chiefly literary ; but in all my conversations with her I found I
she was less disposed to converse about the writings of others
than about her own. Her books, her assailants, her successes,
I found were the most agreeable topics.
A caricature of her in Fraser’s Magazine, representing
her as an old maid, with a cat on her shoulder, with curved
back pressing against her cheek, had recently appeared. I
remember well the resentment she showed in speaking of it,
and how she seemed to take it for granted that everybody
had seen it, whereas, probably, not twenty copies of the
magazine had circulated in America. An excessive egoism
seemed to be her ruling trait; and she was about the last
person I should have instanced, “ seeing no reason ” why
there should be a continuance of her individuality. In what
I have read in her autobiography and biography, I have con¬
tinually found that my own faded impressions of her character j
and temperament could not have been far from the truth.
Feeling that she had been unhandsomely used by nature,
that she had not been gifted with those faculties, in the
fulness, that make up so much of the happiness of others,
she seems to have been unconsciously put into wrong rela¬
tions with things by the abnormal deprivation. Her counte- j
nance was not an agreeable one to me; and this, I think, |
arose less from irregularity of features and sallowness of j
complexion, than from the lack of a congenial expression.
From the likeness I have seen of her in her old age, I should
judge that the harsher traits of her features were much
softened and subdued as she advanced in years, and that she
wore a more benignant look.
Her atheism seems to have been rather sentimental than ra¬
tional. “ How absurd and shocking it is,” she says, in one of
her letters, “to be talking every day about our own passing
moods and paltry interests to a supposed Author and Guide
of the Universe.”
As if the “ absurdity ” did not depend altogether upon the i
nature of things, and our relations to that nature ? Here, |;
instead of a reason or an argument, she simply expresses i
the state of her own feelings—as if that were authoritative !!
in the case. But her feelings were often abnormal, peculiar, !1
and out of sympathy with those of the majority of complete, |!
well-educated persons. The judgment of one without an j]
ear for music, in regard to the productions of Mozart or j <
Beethoven, is about as valuable as Miss Martineau’s opinion |!
on a question involving the exercise of the religious, the 1 ]
devotional, or even the poetical faculty. Were this not so, j<
she never could have uttered those words, y I see no parti- j |
cular reason for the continuance of Harriet Martineau.” j j
She could believe in clairvoyance—the power of a mortal !
in the flesh to read the thoughts of another person at a j
distance; but the conception of a clairvoyant, omniscient God, '
ji was, to her mind, “so irreverent” as to make her “blush,
51 so misleading” as to make her “ mourn.”
(I I fear there was something morbid in that “ blush.”
\ | What is it all but the outcome of an inordinate egoism,
11 revelling in an imaginary superiority over the great minds
(j that have found strength, consolation, and safe moral
11 guidance in the belief in an all-seeing Providence ! To the
(| philosophic mind, meditation on the wonderful proofs we
(| have of a clairvoyant faculty in finite man, renders more easy
11 the conception of an infinitely clairvoyant intelligence. But
| the phenomenon fell on barren soil in Miss Martineau’s
11 mind, and was suggestive of no grand possibility; not even
j of a supersensual faculty in man, pointing to immortality,
j The obvious significance in the great facts adverse to her
Sadducean theory, she either blindly ignored, or set aside
j as counterbalanced by her own individual feelings in the
i case.
| J In the same letter from which I quoted, Miss Martineau
1 j says, “ I am confident that the true moral life is found in
i going out of ourselves—that it is more blessed to give than
j to receive of the treasures of the affections.” And she
| emphasises this as if it were a sentiment peculiar to Miss
) Martineau, as if it were not already an axiom, not only of
j Christianity, but of all the world’s great religions.
Notwithstanding her affirmation as to the affections, I am
I disposed to think that there was really something lacking
j in her emotional as well as her sensuous nature. With all
| her great abilities, her industry, and her zeal, she was
| feeble in the intuitions and the impulses that lift man or
| woman above the prosaic and the commonplace into the
atmosphere of the ideal. She had passion and earnestness
i —she could hate better than she could love—but she had
no grand enthusiasm. From music she was occluded by her
j deafness, but I doubt if the responsive sentiment existed
in her in any developed state. In the poetical faculty, so
I nearly allied to the devotional, she was quite deficient. All
| her attempts at versification are failures; and there is little
I in her imaginative writings that entitled her to recognition
| as one ever gifted with the vision and the faculty divine,
i Of philosophy she knew little ; it is plain that her gifts did
| not lie in that direction. And yet, with all these defects and
|| perversions, with an utter absence of that insight which
(j penetrates beneath the surface of things to the hidden beauty
| or significance, there were few subjects in regard to which
I she did not believe that she could speedily qualify herself to
be a teacher. In this self-confidence lay the secret of her
power and success. The public over-estimated her, in a
literary respect/in her lifetime, and she over-estimated her
own powers and achievements. Each encouraged the other
in a delusion. She was a ready writer, and mistress of a
| clear, animated, incisive style; but as a thinker, an origi-
(j nator, her fame is not likely to be of long duration.
! THE “PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.’’
The first number of the new Spiritualistic quarterly maga-
i zine—the Psychological Review—was issued last Saturday.
II It contains some well-written articles, is neat in appearance,
11 and altogether is a creditable production. The circumstance
11 that it is under the editorship of such a thoughtful man as
!! Mr. William White, author of the Life of Swedenborg, is
| exceptionally good security against the publication of matter
11 in its pages unfit for the perusal of intelligent readers. The
i opening article—“ Ethics of the New Age ”—and an article
| by Miss Greenfield, on “Dante and Beatrice,” are specially
11 well written.
The raison d'etre of the new journal is stated to be that
j it is “established as an organ of communication between
j Spiritualists and the public;” but this is a mistake, due to
| practical inexperience as to the conditions of the case; the
I public will not have anything to do with any publication
| connected with Spiritualism until they have been more or
| less brought into the movement, and then there is no
| apparent reason why they should specially rush after the
| Psychological Review. The more legitimate claim of the
| Psychological Review should be that every new journal of
i good quality, which can make a standing for itself in
1 Spiritualism, aids the movement.
April 5, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
159
In another column we quote from the new periodical a
portion of an article by Mr. Epes Sargent, which, in our
opinion, truthfully points out that there was something
lacking in Miss Martineau which prevented her taking rank
as a very superior woman—a lack of transcendentalism, of
ideality, and of a highly intuitive nature.
The weakest article in the new review is one by Mr.
Andrew Jackson Davis ; it is the article upon which secular
reviewers will be fj down” if they notice the new publica¬
tion at all. The author is a capital writer upon social ques¬
tions, but is and always has been out of his element, when
dealing directly or indirectly with physics. In the article
now under notice he speaks of “chemical principles” in a
spiritual sun, ministering to and influencing man’s inmost
mind. Chemical actions are purely mechanical, within the
domain of molecular physics, and how the principles of
mechanics can minister to men’s inmost minds, and why
chemical principles of all others should take up this mis¬
sionary work, is a problem which perhaps may be solved in
the Psychological Review, No. II. He also makes tise of the
much-abused word “magnetic,” as vulgarly applied to
psychical phenomena, which phenomena so far as at present
known, have nothing magnetic in their nature. The editor
tries to make this article clearer, by means of a paragraph
explaining the highly philosophical Swedenborgian concep¬
tion of a spiritual sun, and of a spiritual world, in which
are found the analogues of all material things. If the
article had been re-written to fully bear out this conception,
some clear knowledge might perhaps be obtainable from it,
but the writings of Andrew Jackson Davis are not, as a
whole, written from this highly spiritual standpoint; they
speak of spirit worlds at distances measurable in miles from
our earth, and are based upon crude materialistic concep¬
tions, far removed from such philosophies as those of Berke¬
ley and Swedenborg. The article is but two pages long,
still its insertion is to be regretted. Notwithstanding these
critical remarks, we fully recognise the great value of the
writings of Mr. A. J. Davis on social reforms, and the
impetus he has given to freedom of religious thought.
THE SENSATIONS OF A DYING MAN.
Physicians sometimes pronounce a person dead, when the vital spark
has not been extinguished. The following case, illustrative of the point,
is given by the Philadelphia Times ;—
Apparently Mr. Schrack died at twenty minutes to seven o’clock on
Sunday morning. His limbs became cold and rigid, his lips coloured
purple, and around his mouth was the blue mark, generally supposed to
betoken death. A hand mirror was placed over his mouth, but its
shining surface was not dimmed. His friends and neighbours who
stood around pronounced him dead, and grieved for him. A few hours
afterward the body was completely stripped, that it might be prepared
for the undertaker’s hands. Before washing the corpse it was necessary
to remove it from the bed. A neighbour, Mr. Charles Shankland, lifted
the body, when, to his alarm, he distinctly heard a feeble groan. A
hurried examination developed the fact that the man was not dead.
The body was wrapped in blankets, and bottles of hot water placed
between them. Mr. Shankland hurried for the doctor, and, returning
quickly, acted under the instructions he had received until the doctor
arrived. In a short time Mr. Schrack had regained consciousness, and
was sitting up in bed, but more than that, the man who before was lying
at death’s door, and who was terribly afflicted with disease, was [almost
as sound and well as ever he was in his life. Mr. Schrack dreaded the
idea of having his peculiar case made public, but, if the particulars
are to be related, he said he would prefer narrating them himself, so that
the statement might be correct. A Times representative yesterday found
him sitting up in bed, with a bright colour in his cheeks, and looking
anything but a corpse.. He is a young man, probably 30 years of
age, a good talker, and intelligent. He spoke in a hoarse whisper, not
the result of his illness, but caused by his catching a slight cold in con¬
sequence of the perspiration he was thrown into by the remedies em¬
ployed to revive him. He spoke earnestly of his experience, but was
vivacious and smiling, and at times joked about the expressions of the
doctor when he found him alive.
Speaking of his sensations while apparently dying, he said:—
“ I lost my hearing and my speech became thick, my tongue being
greatly swollen. I had fully made up my mind that I had to die. At
about 4 o’clock on Sunday morning the tips of my fingers became like
lead. My sight was now entirely gone. My stomach was terribly
swollen and greatly inflamed. Each succeeding cramp was more
severe and reached higher up into the stomach. All. the passages of
my throat ^seemed to be closed. Shortly before 7 o’clock I asked to be
moved to the foot of the bed. My head had scarcely touched the pillow
when I exclaimed—‘ Throw me over!’ and then I found myself in
j j another land. The vision I looked upon was the most beautiful that
| j i man ever saw. It would be impossible for me to give a description that
jji would do it justice. My first feeling was that of falling down a great
|) | height, and then I found myself in a valley. I walked along until I
j j j came to a terrible, dark, black river, at sight of which I shuddered and
|) I feared. Before me and beyond the river was a black cloud. Others
j | j were walking over the river, and, although I dreaded it, something
i J | urged me on, and I felt that I had to go with the others. As I got
I) j nearer to the dark cloud it became bright and beautiful, and, expanding,
| (| it opened and disclosed the most beautiful sight. The first 1 saw was
(j Jesus. I saw a great temple and a great throne. I saw my little boy,
) | who was drowned two years ago, and my other dead child. I saw my
\ | dead wife. But I could not touch them. I saw people whom I had
{j almost forgotten. I saw my old gray-haired grandfather, who died
) | when I was but two years old. There were many whom I looked for,
|! but I did not see them*
(j “ Then the vision began receding, and I can never describe the
j j terrible disappointment I felt when I found myself again in bed. I felt,
11 indeed, grieved. It was eleven o’clock when I regained consciousness,
{| and at once I felt as though my life had been renewed. I was a new
)| man. I had not then, nor have I now, an ache or pain. My eyesight,
j my hearing, and my speech, have fully returned, and I feel now as well
\\ as ever I did in my life.”
)j Herr Christian Reimers has engaged St. George’s Hall for Sunday
|)| afternoon, April 28th, to give a lecture to the general public on
|\j Spiritualism.
|) | Last Sunday night there was a large attendance at Doughty Hall, it
v being supposed to be the evening for the last Sunday address in London
j j | from Dr. Peebles, as well as the thirtieth anniversary of the advent of
11 modern Spiritualism. Mr. Wm. Tebb presided, and several interesting
i j speeches were made in the course of the evening. Dr. Peebles will
j make one or two more appearances in London.
j A Testimonial to Dr. Peebles.—(To the Editor of “ The Spirit*
| ualist.”)—Sir,—Dr. Peebles is .very shortly to leave England, and I think
) few Spiritualists would like him to depart without a further token of
j their appreciation of his labours, and of their regard for himself, in the
i shape of a testimonial. I have no doubt but that the honoured president
) of the British National Association of Spiritualists would receive any
offerings which members, or other Spiritualists, would wish to subscribe
j for the purpose in view. Perhaps I ought to mention that my action in
] this matter is entirely spontaneous.—Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald.
j Mrs. Lenere Cobb Wanted.—(To the Editor of<( The Spiritualist”)
j Sir,—I have been desired, in the Spiritual World, to make diligent
| enquiry about a person named Mrs. Lenere Cobb or Coobe, and to ask
) others to report what can be discovered respecting her. I am forbidden
11 to furnish any data by which she can be found to others, but am promised
11 facts of a test nature in reference to the matter, likely to aid in the
j j settlement of the whole truth of the question.—Kenneth R. H. Mac-
j j kenzie, 1 Flint Yillas, Wellington-road, Hounslow,
jj A Spiritualistic Soiree.—Last Wednesday night, at the usual
| monthly soirie of the British National Association of Spiritualists, at
! 38, Great Russell-street, London, warm farewell greetings were given to
Dr. J. M. Peebles, who will leave England a fortnight hence for
j America. Mr. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Rogers, and others, addressed the
j | meeting, and Dr. Peebles replied in an earnest speech. Mr. Colley read
11 a paper, and Mrs. Ellis, Miss C. L. Younge, Mr. Moor, Miss Maltby,
I j and Mr. Little entertained the company with music and singing. Mr.
{j Dietz also amused the listeners with some excellent recitations.
] A Strange Girl.—The Buffalo Commercial Advertiser of the 1st
J instant says:—“ About six months ago the police of the Sixth Precinct
| were called to take charge of a young woman named Hattie Eucher,
I aged twenty-two years, who was employed as a servant in the family of
) a gentleman residing on Delaware-street, near Cold Springs. She had
) been conducting herself in such a remarkable manner, that it was sup-
( posed that she was insane. She was placed in the Providence Asylum,
( where she remained a short time, when she was removed to the house
5 of her uncle, Charles Vogt, on Delavan-avenue. It is asserted that for
| about twenty weeks past the young woman has lain in bed with her eyes
j closed, and both hands clenched and pressed up to the sides of her face,
| and further, that she has not spoken a word during all this time. A
] gentleman who visited her states that he attempted to open one of her
)! eyes, but it was immediately closed again. He also straightened out
j | one of her arms, but it returned mechanically to its former position.
I I When food is put into her mouth she eats it, but doe* not ask for any.”
! 11 —The Globe, March 20th.
(| Soulless Men.—It is rather surprising to find in The Spiritualist for
II February 8th, a quotation by Colonel Olcott, attributing theosophical
i | ideas to the New Church. He informs an opponent, quoting from
j i Blavatsky’s Isis Unveiled, that he will find in a report of a recent dis-
! j course by the Rev. Chauncey Giles, one of the lights of Sweden-
1) i bor'gianism, that the doctrine of soulless men is a dogma of the New
II j Church. “ These creatures,’’ says the preacher, “ with all their grace*,
| {I rich attire, and brilliant accomplishments, are dead in the eyes of the
!) | Lord and the angels, and when measured by the only true and
III immutable standard, have no more genuine life than skeletons whose
II i flesh has turned to dust.’’ Here it is plain enough that the preacher
| | was speaking of men or women who are spiritually dead, not of soul-
J j less men; and there is as great a difference between a dead soul and no
i j soul as between a dead body and no body: the one exists, the other does
i) | not. We may add, further, that a dead body is one incapable of being
| (j affected by spiritual forces, but only by material ones; and a dead soul
j (i is one that is incapable of being affected by the life of heaven, but only
III by the life of hell; the latter, therefore, ii a living death.—The Morning
Hi Light ''Swedenborgian Newspaper).
160
HUE SPIRITUALIST.
April 5, 1878.
INQUIRERS’ SEANCES.
A new course of the above sSances was commenced at 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, on Wednesday, the 27th ult., under the auspices of
the National Association of Spiritualists. The medium was Mr. W.
Eglinton. Eive persons only were present. In accordance with the
permission suggested to me under minute of the Seance Committee,
January 11th, 1878, “That it be suggested to the member in charge of
a particular seatice with a physical medium that the contrivance known
as ‘ Gray’s gauntlets ’ be used as a perfect test, when deemed desirable,”
I proposed that Mr. Eglinton’s hands should be connected by this
arrangement. The description of these “ gauntlets ’’ has been already
given in The Spiritualist of December 8th, 1876, page 220. Mr.
Eglinton was willing that any test should be applied. The gauntlets
were laced on his wrists, neither so tightly as to impede the circulation,
nor so loosely as to be slipped from the wrists. The medium being
placed in the cabinet, a hand was distinctly seen in front of him, and a
ring which was on his finger was thrown on the floor of the room.
Agitation of bells and rings which had been placed on the medium’s
knees, also took place. After a while, the gauntlets were thrown
outside the cabinet, and picked up by me in several portions. Exami¬
nation of them showed that they had been much stretched and torn,
the force tearing the connecting band which united them, by the
breakage of its threads, indicating that one|(at least) of the gauntlets
had been stretched and torn at its middle, and that the lace of one had
been broken. I am unable, of course, to state whether this breakage
took place before the hands were shown, and the action of hands took
place in front of the cabinet, or immediately before the gauntlets were
thrown out.
The second part of the seance took place with the coat sleeves sewn
behind the back, and the coat sewn in front, according to the “test”
which has satisfied so many persons on so many previous occasions.
The leaves and cover of the book were lifted, I think, more frequently
than I remember to have been the case before. Writing was done on a
clean piece of paper, provided by me, and with a pencil provided by a
spectator. The voice of “Joey” was heard frequently during the
seance.
In conclusion, I avoid giving any opinion as to the nature of the
force which tore the gauntlets, confining myself to mere narratives of
fact. I wish, however, to state that Mr. Eglinton was perfectly and
frankly willing to submit to any tests. C. Carter Blake,
Member of Seance Committee in charge.
THE NON-ETERNITY OF PUNISHMENT.
BY GERALD MASSEY.
From end to end of things we may not see,
Nor square the circle of Eternity;
But I cannot believe in endless hell
And heaven side by side. How could I dwell
Among the Saved, for thinking of the Lost ?
With such a lot the Blest would suffer most.
Sitting at feast all in a Golden Home,
That towered over dungeon-grates of Doom,
My heart would ache for all the lost that go
To wail and weep in everlasting woe:
Thro’ all the music I must hear the moan,
Too sharp for all the harps of Heaven to drown.
I cannot think of Life apart from Him
Who is the life, from cell to Seraphim;
And, if Hell flame unquenchably, must be
The life of hell to all eternity 1
A God of love must expiate the stain
Of Sin Himself, by suffering endless pain;
Sit with eternal desolation round
His feet; his head with happy heavens crowned.
From Him the strength immortal must be sent,
By which the soul could bear the punishment.
I cannot think He gave us power to wring
From one brief life eternal suffering:
If this were so, the Heavens must surely weep,
Till Hell were drown’d in one salt vast, sea-deep.
Forgive me, Lord, if wrongly I divine;
I dare not think Thy pity less than mine.
God save me from that Heaven of the Elect,
Who half rejoice to count the numbers wreckt.
Because, such full weight to the balance given,
Sends up the scale that lands them sure in heaven ;
Who some fall’n Angel would devoutly greet,
And praise the Lord for another vacant seat;
And the proud Saved, exulting, soar the higher,
The lower that the Lost sank in hell-fire.
I think Heaven will not shut for evermore,
Without a knocker left upon the door,
Lest some belated Wanderer should come
Heart-broken, asking just to die at home,
So that the Father will at last forgive,
And looking on His facer that soul shall live.
1 think there will be Watchmen thro’ the night,
Lest any, afar off, turn them to the light;
That He who loved us into life must be
A Father infinitely Fatherly,
And, groping for Him, these shall find their way
From outer dark, thro’ twilight, into day.
I could not’sing the song of Harvest Home,
Thinking of those poor souls that never come;
I could not joy for Harvest gathered in,
If any souls, like tares and twitch of sin,
Were flung out by the Farmer to the fire,
Whose smoke of torment, rising high and higher,
Should fill the universe for evermore.
I could not dance along the crystal floor
Thro’ which the damned lookt up at Paradise,
For ever fixed, like fishes frozen in ice.
Such mournful eyes from out their night would gleam
And haunt for ever all my happy dream !
I could not take my fill for thinking of
Those empty places in the heart of love.
The New World’s poorest emigrant will lend
A kindly hand to help a poorer friend.
And I must pray to God from out my bliss
For those who were beyond all help but His—
Pray and re-pray, the same old prayer anew:
Forgive them, Lord, they know not what they do.
Because they were so utterly accurst,
Self-doomed, that bitterness would be the worst.
Oh, look down on them, from Thy place above,
The look of pity, Lord, half-way to love!
Mere human love, in this its narrow sphere,
Can never think of those it once held dear,
Who down the darkened way will pull apart,
But with a pitying eye—an aching heart.
And still, as Jess the beckoning hand they heed,
The strength of Love grows with their greater need;
The less they heed, the more it yearns to save.
And shall this love be dwarfed beyond the grave,
To lose, on wings, its feet-attained height 1
Better its blindness, than the eye of light
That coldly down on endless hell could glance,
With all its mortal sympathies in trance.
Or will some Lethean wave the soul caress.
And numb it into dull forgetfulness;
Washing away all memory of distress
That others feel, while we but lift the hand
To pluck and eat the lotus of the land;
Will the fierce penal fires that throb and burn
Across the night to gentle radiance turn,
And those far wailings of the world of tears
Come mellowed into music for our ears,
With just the zestful dash of discord given,
That makes the pleasure pungent—perfects Heaven ?
’Tis hard to read the Handwriting Divine;
The vanishing upstroke so invisibly fine !
There must be issues that we do not see.
The whole horizon of Futurity
Is nowise visible from where we stand ;
We are but dwellers in a lowly land.
We think the sun doth set, the sun doth rise,
And yet our world’s but turning in the skies.
Seen from our lower level there must pass
Mysteries, so high and starry, we but glass
Them darkly, as we strain our mortal sight.
While ’twixt our souls and them there stands the night.
The more we press and sigh, the more our breath
Will mist the windows of the world of death;
And then we scratch upon our lattice-pane,
Dimming its clearness, and we are so fain
To read our own imaginations fond,
For the true figures of the world beyond.
We model from the human life, and so
Feature the future from the face we know.
’Tis always sunless one side of our globe,
And thus we fashion the Eternal’s robe 1
God made Man in His image, but our plan’s
To mould and make God’s image in the Man’s,
And if my thought be human as the rest,
At least the likeness shall be Man’s at best.
Too long hath Calvin’s spectrum sacrificed,
Smoke-hued with hell, the pure white light of Christ l
Dear God, it seems to me that Love must be
The Missionary of Eternity !
Must still find work, in worlds beyond the grave,
So long as there’s a single soul to save;
Must, from the highest heaven, yearn to tell
Thy message; be the Christ to some dark hell;
Gather the jewels that flash Godward in
The dark, down-trodden, toadlike head of Sin ;
That all divergent lines at length will meet
To make the clasping round of Love complete;
The rift ’twixt Sense and Spirit will be healed,
Ere the Redeemer’s work be crowned and sealed;
Evil shall die like dung about the root
Of Good, or climb converted into fruit!
The discords cease, and all their strife shall be
Resolved in one vast peaceful harmony:
That all these accidents of time and breath
Shall bear no black seal of a Second Death:
And, freed from branding heats that burn in Time,
The lost Elack Race shall whiten in that clime;
Apbil 5, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST. 161
All blots of error bleacbt in Heaven’s sight; ' (
All life’s perplexing colours lost in light: . j
That Thou hast power to work out every stain ; (
That purifying is the end of Pain ;
And, waking, we shall know what we but dream
Dimly, our darkness toucht by morning’s gleam,
That punishment is purposed to redeem ;
And Here, and There, the penitent thrill must leaven
The earthiest soul and wing it toward Heaven;
Then when the Angel-Reapers shall up-sheave
The harvest, Angel-Gleaners will not leave /
One least small grain of good—and there are none I
So evil but some precious germ lives on,-—
The grimiest gutter crawling by the way I
Still have its reflex of the face of Day; j i
The chaff and draff into the fire be cast, j j
Only to ascend in Godward flame at last. I
And all the seeds divine foredoomed by fate
To bear blind blossoms here shall germinate <
And have another chance, in other place,
Where tears of gratitude and dews of grace
Shall warn and quicken to the feeblest root, l
Till in Thy garden they are ripe for fruit: j
For all who have made shipwreck on that shore, j
Another outfit and one venture more. i
So shall we find the Dark of our old Earth ^
Twin with the eternal Daylight from the birth, : j
And trodden in the grave-dust we shall see i
This serpent-symbol of Eternity
That only maketh ends meet, head and tail,
A world all blessing with a world all bale.
Published in 1869.
INDIAN MYSTICISMS.
In The Spiritualist of March 22nd, your correspondent,
tl T. J.,” gives an account of some Indian jugglery, taken
from the Oriental Annual. As he asks if any of your readers
who have travelled can explain them, I venture to do what
I can in that way. I have passed seven years of my life in
India, have seen any amount of tricks and feats, and have
been greatly disappointed with most of them. Although j
the natives have great sleight of hand, a practised eye will
detect the way in which every trick is done. The mango
trick is done by substituting different growths of a mango i
tree by sleight of hand. Although, as 11T. J.” says, the
natives generally have u no raiment excepting a small cloth
round their loins,” they* invariably have a bag with them, !
which they lay alongside whilst they do their tricks; and if |
you open this bag before they commence, as I have done, you I
will find the mango seed, a sprig of mango tree with two leaves j
on it, another sprig with a lot of leaves, and a still larger |
one with a young mango. The mode of introducing these
under the basket is after the same fashion as the English
conjuror’s inexhaustible hat. With regard to the miraculous
earthen vessel which appeared full and empty at will, I have
not only seen the trick done, but I have a similar vessel
now in my possession. I got a juggler—a fadu-wallah—to
make me one in copper exactly the same as his earthenware
one, and I shall be very happy to send it to you for your
correspondent to see. Without casting a doubt on the I
truth of the description of the trick, as seen by the person
quoted, I do not believe that the same vessel—a “chattie,”
as it is called—was broken before his eyes, but that a similar j
one was substituted by sleight of hand, and then broken. J
I have seen this trick done many times, but have never seen
the chattie broken.
The other tricks mentioned I have never seen, but I may j
say that when a description of a trick is given by a person I
unacquainted with juggler’s ways, it is found very unlike that j
which would be given by an adept in the art. “ T. J.” says :
u Here, however, is the difficulty, that there are no con¬
federates concealed behind curtains at the rear of public
platforms, with shaded lights and oblique tables, the surface
placed just above the line of vision.” That is true enough,
but there is a great deal in that little fat bag that they
always carry with them, and it requires many rupees before j
a peep into it is allowed.
A native of Belgaum once told me that, in ancient days, |
there was a preparation used which, after seeds had been
soaked in it, would make them shoot up in a few minutes.
He said that this preparation was made by spreading a piece j
of flannel over the grain plant at night when the moon was j
full. In the morning the flannel would be found full of I
moisture. This was pressed out, and the operation con- 1
tinned until a little bottle of this stuff was obtained. Any
I seed left in this for some days, and then carefully dried,
I would shoot up at once when planted and watered. He
| went so far as to get me a bottle of this stuff, and seemed
| very confident about it. However, we tried it, and did not
| succeed. He was so vexed about this that, determined to
j show me something wonderful, he brought up to my bunga-
| low an old man who, he said, could do wonderful feats in
mental arithmetic. I put him to the test by giving him
| rows of figures to multiply together. In every instance he
| was right. He ultimately offered to play a game of chess
| with me, and do a sum at the same time; so I gave him
j 1,345,678 to be multiplied by 6,543,123. In ten minutes
he had beaten me and given me the answer, viz.,
8,804,936,672,394. I did it myself on paper, and made it
657 instead of 667, so I hoped I had caught him making a
mistake, but he was right after all. The next day I asked
him if he remembered the figures, and he repeated them off
in their right order at once. I wrote all the sums down at
the time, and have just copied them out now. E. S. Gr.
27th March, 1878.
ISIS UNVEILED AND THE TODAS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist,”
Sir,—-I have not been in India myself, and therefore
cannot take issue, upon knowledge, with what “ H. M.” has
to say about the white Todas of the Nilageri Hills, described
i by Madame Blavatsky in Isis Unveiled. But I find very re-
j markable inferential corroboration of that distinguished and
respectable lady’s statements in what is related by Major
Alfred R. Calhoun, of the U.S. army, chief of the U.S.
j Government Survey of the 35th Parallel, and F.R.G.S*
(Eng.), about a similar caste among the Zuni Indians of
Arizona. This ancient tribe is of a dark coffee-coloured
complexion, and the blood is untainted by mixture with
| Europeans. And yet Major Calhoun reports that he en¬
countered among them individuals who were as white as
I himself, and with blue eyes and fair hair. They presented
! none of the traits of Albinos, nor were they physiologically
| or intellectually inferior to their fellow-tribesmen. They
I were regarded as sacred, and set apart from birth with a
religious veneration as sincere as that displayed by the
Siamese for white, or rather coffee-coloured elephants,
j Major Calhoun is my personal friend, and apart from what
J he has said in print, he in my presence communicated to
| Madame Blavatsky, Col. Olcott, and others, this extraordi-
] nary discovery of his, which he regarded as having an
I enhanced ethnological and mystical value, in view of what
Madame Blavatsky had reported of the white Todas. I may
| add, that I remember reading in the work of a sixteenth
; century Spanish missionary, whose name for the moment
II escapes me, that he had seen and conversed with these white
; I Zunis.
Major Calhoun’s personal knowledge received from the
! natives of New Mexico of the Montezuma myth is corro-
; borative of that quoted by (i Scrutator” in The Spiritualist of
■ March 8th, from Foot Tracks in North America, by Dr. Bell,
’ an author with whom Major Calhoun is, I believe, at the
present time associated in the production of a new volume
on the myths and traditions of the primitive North American
Indians. Charles Sotheran.
Press Club, 6, Centre-street, New York, U.S.A., March 18, 1878.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist”
Sir,—I have read the communication of (< H. M.” in your
| paper of the 8 th instant. I would not have mentioned the
“Todas” at all .in my book, if I had not read a very
| elaborate octavo work in 271 pages, by William S. Marshall,
| Lieut.-Col. of Her Majesty’s Bengal Staff Corps, entitled,
I A Phrenologist Among the Todas, copiously illustrated with
I photographs of the squalid and filthy beings to whom
I “ H.M.” refers. Though written by a staff officer, assisted “ by
i the Rev. Friedrich Metz, of the Basel Missionary Society,
| who had spent upwards of twenty years of labours” among
I them, and “ the only European able to speak the obscure
| Toda tongue,” the book is so full of misrepresentations—
I though both writers appear to be sincere—that I wrote what
1 I did.
162
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apkil 5, 1878.‘
What I said I knew to be true, and I do not retract a
single word. If neither “ H. M.,” nor Lieut.-Col. Mar¬
shall, nor the Rev. Mr. Metz have penetrated the secret that
lies behind the dirty huts of the aborigines they have seen,
that is their misfortune, not my fault.
H. P. Blavatsky.
New York, March 18th, 1878.
EXPERIMENTS WITH HENRY SLADE AT LEIPZIG.
{From the “Daily Telegraph” April 2nd, 1878.)
Under this title the Quarterly Journal of Science pub¬
lishes a remarkable article, giving a curious illustration of
the idea which has recently been developed in Germany
that space has another dimension beyond the length, breadth,
and thickness recognised in Geometry. F. Zollner, the
professor of physical astronomy at Leipzig, is the author,
and he describes some experiments which he made in that
city in December, 1877, with Mr. Henry Slade, the American.
These experiments were, he says, only the practical applica¬
tion of Gauss’s and Kant’s theory of space, which these
two eminent men imagined might contain more than three
dimensions. This conception cannot be easily explained with¬
out the use of diagrams and resort to highly abstract concep¬
tions ; but Herr Zollner examined the subject in its simplest
form, the knotting of an endless cord, and he observed that
“ if a single cord has its ends tied together and sealed, an
intelligent being, having the power voluntarily to produce
on this cord four dimensional bendings and movements,
must be able, without loosening the seal, to tie one or more
knots in this endless cord.” And he proceeds to say that
“ this experiment has been successfully made within the
space of a few minutes in Leipzig, on Dec. 17th, 1877, at
eleven o’clock a.m., in the presence of Mr. Henry Slade, the
American. I myself selected one of four sealed cords, and,
in order never to lose sight of it before we sat down at the
table, I hung it around my neck—the seal in front always
within my sight. During the seance I constantly kept the
seal—remaining unaltered—before me on the table. Mr.
Slade’s hands remained all the time in sight; with the left
he often touched his forehead, complaining of painful sensa¬
tions. The portion of the string hanging down rested on
my lap—out of my sight, it is true—but Mr. Slade’s hands
always remained visible to me. I particularly noticed that
Mr. Slade’s hands were not withdrawn or changed in posi¬
tion. He himself appeared to be perfectly passive, so that we
cannot advance the assertion of his having tied those knots
by his conscious will, but only that they, under these de¬
tailed circumstances, were formed in his presence without
visible contact, and in a room illuminated by bright day¬
light.” There were four knots in the cord, and the professor
describes very minutely how they were sealed. Several
other scientific men were present. He concludes thus:
<c The four knots in the above-mentioned cord, with the seal
unbroken, this day still lie before me. I can send this cord
to any man for examination. I might send it by turn to all
the learned societies of the world, so as to convince them
that not a subjective phantasma is here in question, but an
objective and lasting effect produced in the material world,
which no human intelligence with the conceptions of space
so far current is able to explain. Ifr nevertheless, the
foundations of this fact, deduced by me on the ground of
an enlarged conception of space, should be denied, only one
other kind of explanation would remain, arising from a
moral mode of consideration that at present, it is true, is
quite customary. This explanation would consist in the
presumption that I myself and the honourable men and
citizens of Leipzig, in whose presence several of these cords
were sealed, were either common impostors or were not in
possession of our sound senses sufficient to perceive if
Mr. Slade himself, before the cords were sealed, had tied
them in knots. The discussion, however, of such an hypo¬
thesis would no longer belong to the domain of science, but
would fall under the category of social decency.” On the
result of his inquiry the German professor comes to the
opinion that Mr. Slade was innocently condemned in
London, a victim of his accusers’ and his judge’s limited
knowledge.”
iA PRIYATE SEANCE.
Last Saturday night at a seance at Mrs. Makdougall
| Gregory’s, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, Mr.
W. Eglinton was the medium. The other sitters were Mrs.
| Gregory, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Fletcher,
Mr. Arthur Colman, Mrs. Wiseman, Sir Joscelyn Coghill,
! and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Soon after those present had taken their seats, the table
began to move about; the light was weak, from one gas jet
turned very low, but the sitters could see each other
and the various objects in the room. Violent noises came
upon the table, and a candle and candlestick walked ”
along its surface; a sheet of foolscap on the table was also
seen by all to move about. Soon, in the same light, a strong
wind began to sweep round the circle, and to blow in gusts
upon the faces of the sitters ; it came from above the centre
of'the circle; sometimes it blew over those on one side of
the circle, sometimes over those at the other, and it was ten
or twenty times as strong as those cool breezes which com¬
monly sweep over the bands of sitters at spirit circles.
| We never witnessed anything like it in strength before at a
i stance. The rough noises and the gusts of wind were said
by raps to be produced by an undeveloped spirit which had
| found its way into the house at a previous period. Mr.
I Eglinton’s spirits then stated that they had obtained control
over this lower influence, and would send it away. Soon
afterwards the rough manifestations ceased.
Later, the same evening, the table rose several times in a
good light, while the observers were seated round it, with
their hands on its upper surface. Mr. Serjeant Cox, by
request, sat on the table, and in a bright light the table
rose vertically and evenly from four to six inches from the
floor, and floated for perhaps ten seconds, while he was
upon it. The hands of the sitters were upon its upper
surface.
Afterwards, Mr. Eglinton sat for materialisations in front of
the curtains of an empty cabinet. Two of the sitters saw some
small white object moving for a short time near his feet, but
beyond this nothing took place.
Afterwards, in the dark, some ordinary dark-circle mani¬
festations were obtained.
The World says that the period allotted for the consumption of the
recent six millions voted to the Government expired last Saturday,
and that the cost of the new policy will be included in the estimates
of the year. The Government has begun the embodiment of the army
and militia reserves.
Spiritualism iu Reading.—Mr. G. R. Smith writes that, during the
reading of his paper on “ Psychology, Spiritualism, and Cognate
Subjects,” the interest in the matter was so great that, though it was
only a debate at a private Literary Society, a greater number was
attracted to the place than had ever gathered there before. The debate
extended over two nights. Much antagonism was displayed the first
evening, but on the second occasion several students of psychology
expressed their convictions, and were supported by Mr. Burns. The
result is that several persons have been induced to investigate Spirit¬
ualism, and it is intended to form a psychological society in Reading.
The National Association of Spiritualists.—Recently, attention
was called, in a critical article in The Spiritualist, to a few matters in
connection with the National Association of Spiritualists which were
not working well; the Council gave attention to the points, and, after
inquiry, practically endorsed the major statements by abolishing two
committees. The fact was that the attendance of members at council
meetings had previously sunk too low, and that more of the well-known
workers in Spiritualism should have attended regularly. An improve¬
ment has been visible at the more recent council meetings. Next Tues¬
day, an important subject will come on. The expiration of the £2oii
per annum guarantee fund has been but partially covered by the steady
growth of the association, leaving between £100 and £150 to be made
up this year. The General Purposes Committee will recommend, at
the next meeting, that this be made up among the large number of
members of the association, by those only who can afford it raising
their subscriptions to £2 2s. each per annum, and making £2 2s. the rate
for all new members. Thus will the finest organisation which Spirit¬
ualism has ever seen be made entirely self-supporting, and the system
of exceptional subscriptions be abolished. At present, the association
is out of debt, and has much property, the value of which is never set
forth in the reports of the Finance Committee. The accommodation
and facilities provided by the establishment are considered to be well
worth £2 28^ per annum to each member j and we think that the pro¬
posal to put the establishment at once and for all on a sound basis,
with no supplementary subscriptions, is a good one. Probably the
question whether the association shall recognise paid mediums whose
powers have never been examined by it, will be brought up at next
Tuesday’s council meeting.
April 5, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
163
HENEY SLADE’S MEDIUMSHIP.*
BY FRIEDRICH ZOLLNER, PROFESSOR OF ASTRONOMY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
LEIPZIG.
(Translatedfrom “ Psychic Studies,” by Miss Kislingbury.')
In my first treatise On Effects at a Distance, I discussed
in detail the truth which was first recognised by Kant, and
later by Gauss and the followers of the anti-Euclid geometry,
that our present and commonly current ideas of space rest
upon experience—that is, on empirical facts, added to a
causal a'priori innate principle of our understanding. . This
applies more particularly to our present ideas of three dimen¬
sions of space. We should be able equally well to imagine
four, five, or more dimensions of space, if from our earliest
youth we had been accustomed to witness every day pheno¬
mena, which allowed of an incontestable—that is, reason¬
able—exposition and explanation of a four-dimensional
theory of space. It follows, therefore, that the actual exist¬
ence of four dimensions of space, with corresponding objects,
can only be demonstrated from experience—that is to say,
from observed facts.
At all events, an immense step is already gained in the
acknowledgment that the possibility of a four-dimensional
region of space is conceivable, and, without contradiction,
thinkable, even if, from reasons above given, it is not
visibly presentable.f But Kant goes a step further. From
the logically-inferred probability of spaces with more than
three dimensions, he deduces this “ very probable” real
existence in the following words:—11 If it be possible that
there is extension of other dimensions, it is equally probable
that God allows of their existence. For His works have
all the vastness and variety which they can possibly admit
of. . . . I have shown, in the above, that more worlds,
taken in the metaphysical sense, could exist together, but
here, again, is the condition which, it seems to me, is the
only one that makes it probable that many worlds should
exist.”—{Kant's Works, vol. v., p. 25. Thoughtsonthe True
Estimate of Lining Forces, p. 11.)
In the above-mentioned treatise (p. 273) I have already
discussed certain physical phenomena, which such four¬
dimensional beings would be able to produce, provided such
circumstances were granted them as would make it possible
to show results in the real or physical world, which could be
presented to the consciousness of us three-dimensional
beings. As a possible result, I had discussed in detail the
knotting of a simple, endless thread. When such thread
should have its ends tied together, and secured by a seal,
then an intelligent being who could at will manipulate the
thread with four-dimensional motions, ought to be able to
tie one or more knots in the endless thread without dis¬
turbing the seal.
This experiment was successfully made, with the concur¬
rence of the American medium, Mr. Henry Slade, at Leipzig,
.the 17th December, 1877, at eleven o’clock in the forenoon,
within a few minutes of time. The drawing, showing the
one millimetre of thick string, with the four knots, as well
as the position of my hands, with which Mr. Slade’s left
and that of another gentleman were linked upon the table,
is taken from nature.! Whilst the seal was the whole time
on the table before our eyes, and that part of the string, as
shown in the cut, was pressed firmly, by my two thumbs,
against the top of the table, the remainder of the string
hung loose upon my lap. Whereas I had only wished for
the production of one knot, in a few minutes there were no
less than four knots in the string, exactly as shown in the
illustration.
I hinted, at the close of my first treatise—the manuscript
of which was finished during the month of August, 1877—
that a considerable number of physical phenomena, which
can be deduced “ synthetically d priori ” from the standpoint
of an extended space, and of Plato’s projection hypothesis,
were to be reconciled with the so-called Spiritualistic pheno¬
mena. With express caution I there remarked, p. 276, “ To
* From Wissenchaftliche Abhandlungen, by Friedrich Zollner, Professor of Astronomy
at the University of Leipzig. Vol. I. (Leipzig, L. Stuaekmann, 1878), xiii., p. 733; large
Svo. pp. 724—732.
t We intend, in a future special article, to lay before our readers in greater detail this
highly important theory of a four or more dimensional region of space, as to the possibility
of which the d priori deductions appear to be demonstrated as really existent by medial
phenomena; thus, the full weight of the Zollner experiments may be estimated from per¬
sonal observation and judgment. It will, then, also be made clearer what is meant by the
“ shades ” of Plato.—Ed. Psy. Studies.
J A diagram, showing the nature of the experiment, was published in The Spiritualist
Of Feb. 15th, 1878,—Ed. of S,
| those of my readers who are inclined to see in the above
I theoretic possibilities an empirical confirmation by Spiri-
|! tualistic phenomena, I will remark that we must first have
ia more exact definition and criticism of the objectively real
i from the .standpoint of idealism. Indeed, if all things which
■ are apprehended by the senses are only appearances produced
^ within us by causes unknown to us, then the distinction
| between the objectively real (bodies) and the subjectively
; real (phantasma) must be sought for, not in the essence of
! being, but in the accidental attributes of the process of their
I presentation. If now these unknown causes produce a pre¬
sentation of such a nature that the same appears simul¬
taneously to several individuals, and only differs to their per¬
ception in accordance with the difference of the position in
space of the observer, we attribute such a presentation to a
real object outside of usapart from this condition, we
I attribute it to causes within us, and call it a hallucination.
Whether Spiritualistic phenomena belong to the first or
the second of these two categories, I will not venture to
I decide, since I have never witnessed them. On the other
hand, I do not estimate the superiority of my understanding
! so far above that of such men as Huggins, Crookes, Wallace,
and others, as to believe that I should not, under their cir-
| cumstances, have arrived at similar conclusions.” (Written
| in Aug. 1877).
The supposition herein expressed was fully verified by
| experiments, four months later, with the American gentle-
I man, Henry Slade. I was, during these experiments, intent
! on testingthe above-named criterion of subjective phantasma
as against objective facts. The four knotted string with the
seal intact is lying before me; I can produce it as a proof to
I other men; I could send it in succession to all the learned
I bodies in the world, that they might convince themselves it
j is no question of subjective phantasma, but of an objective
| permanent result produced in the real physical world, which
| no human understanding is in a position to explain from our
| present standpoint regarding space and force.
If they still call in question the accuracy of this fact
| deduced from my view of extensions of space, then there
| remains only one other explanation, which certainly might
] arise from a moral status only too common in these days.
This explanation consists in the assumption that I and those
| honourable men and citizens of Leipzig, in whose presence
| the sealing of many such threads took place, are either
| vulgar deceivers, or were not sufficiently in possession of our
| senses to observe how Mr. Slade, before the sealing,
| tied all those knots in the string u without our having
| remarked it.” The discussion of such a hypothesis would,
| however, belong not to the domain of science, but to
] that of social proprieties. My readers will find on this
I subject a short lecture with demonstrations from living
| creatures in my first treatise On Effects at a Distance, p. 181.
Should my colleagues, Helmholtz and Pfaundler, be inclined
! to class me and those honoured men (among whom is one
! whose name is engraved in indelible characters and golden
letters in the annals of German science) with “wonder¬
workers,” “ the undiscerning credulous,” or even the “ nobly
deceived ” (comp. p. 172), I will venture to remind them,
that, before I witnessed these phenomena in person, I was
entirely in the position of their ally, Tyndall, who declares:
“I was by no means absolutely unbelieving, but I thought
it more probable, that some physical principle, unknown to
| the Spiritualists, lay at the root of these appearances ”
(p. 178). The difference between Mr. Tyndall and myself is
I that he considers his understanding so highly developed as
I to be able in one quarter of an hour under the table, to
discover his <£ physical principle.” (“ I crept under the table.
I I continued under that table for at least a quarter of an
| hour.”) I, on the contrary, considered my power to explain
| these remarkable phenomena so insufficient, that at the
beginning of my experiments with Slade, I felt little hope
! that, after a week’s continuous and painstaking experimental
j research, I should be so fortunate as to arrive at the demon-
I strated proof of the correctness of my theory of “ « priori
synthetic inference.” *
(l * I made other surprisingly successful experiments, which I had worked out from my
I J ; standpoint of space-theory, and which Slade himself did not believe to be possible. The
! I ! appreciative and sympathetic reader will understand what pleasure this gave me, and how
j j i gratefully I presented Dr. Slade “ in remembrance of hours spent in Leipzig " with the first
' •' ■ volume of my Principles of an Electro-dynamic Theory of Matter, in which I had some
164
THE SPIKITUALIST.
April 5, 187§.
If Alexander the Great, who, 2,212 years ago cut through
the Gordian knot with his sword, had been given an American
medium to experiment with, and had at the same time pos¬
sessed the knowledge of the theory of extended space of Kant
and Gauss, perhaps he might have hit upon the idea of loosing
the knot without the application of the sword. It would have
been more in accordance with the oracle, which awarded him
the dominion of the world for loosing that knot, if the solu¬
tion had been arrived at by the help of intelligent four¬
dimensional beings without a sword. For the history of
human culture is none other than the history of the libera¬
tion of the world by the intellect. Herein lies the ideal im¬
portance and the justification of the German struggle for
culture. It requires, however, that a people shall have
reached morally that plane of self-consciousness from which
it can defy the scarecrow of so-called u public opinion.”
For this same “ public opinion ” is variable, and must be
made by a nation of sound mind to serve in the cause of
truth; it is dependent on the moral and intellectual tone of
those who not with “ blood and iron ” in war, but rather
with ink and pen in the press, are striving to advance the
nation’s prosperity. But a people must first win its political
self-dependence, in order afterwards to fight out its moral and
intellectual independence. In the first case the enemy is
from without, in the second from within, in the form of a
morally and intellectually degraded literature and press. In
the first case a nation founds the scene of its political and
economic activity on spatial territory, in the second case the
reward of victory and the dominion of mind are all the
kingdoms of the earth. To that end must every one of us
first individually gain a moral victory over himself; he must
have the courage of our great statesman, Bismarck, who has
declared, not only in private correspondence, but in the most
public manner: “As for the Virchow affair, I am past the
time when men take counsel in that flesh and blood manner;
when I set my li/e to any work, I do it in the same faith that
I use to strengthen myself for a long and severe fight, but
with sincere and humble prayer to God, when no word of
man, not even that of a friend in the Lord or a servant of
His Church, can turn me from it.” (See p. 382 Wiss. Abh.')
When such moral courage as this shall be awakened in
every one of us, so that in the winged words of Prince Bis¬
marck, “ the appeal to fear will find no response in German
hearts,” shall be an active principle, not only in the form of
admonition, but in actual deed in the domain of literature
and science, then will Herr Virchow read the Simplicius
Simplissimus, by Grimmelshausen,* and will perceive in the
prophecy therein contained, an admirable proof that the
ideal sense of the German people, even in the times of its
deepest degradation during the horrors of the' Thirty Years’
War, did not renounce the hope of better times to come, and
its belief in the enduring victory of intellect and of German
good sense over dogmatic egotism and pedantic vanity.
On Monday evening next, at 38, Great Russell-street, London, a
paper will be read before the National Association of Spiritualists by
Mr. W. Newton, F.R.G.S., entitled, “Add to yonr Faith, Knowledge.’’
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., will preach on “ Modern
Spiritualism” at St. Andrew’s Church (the Venerable Archdeacon
Dunbar’s), Tavistock-place, London, on Sunday morning next, at the
eleven o’clock service.
The question has been raised in American Spiritual periodicals, and
by some of our correspondents in this country, whether Mother
Shipton’s Prophecy is genuine; also whether it is of the antiquity
alleged. Can any of our readers give evidence of its authenticity or
otherwise ?
years previously discussed the possibility of theories of extended space in relation to our
physical ■world. As Dr. Slade made on myself and my friends the impression of being a
gentleman, his conviction for deception in London awakened our liveliest moral sympathy.
For after witnessing those physical facts which took place in his presence with such great
variety, there could be no reasonable ground for supposing that Slade had in any single
case resorted to conscious deception. Mr. Slade was, therefore, in our eyes, innocently
condemned, a sacrifice to the uninformed judgment of his accuser and his judge.
* Dr. Virchow declared on the 16th March, 1876, in the Prussian Chamber of Deputies:—
“ I have been so unfortunate as to buy this book on the strength of that recommendation,
and have seldom been so shocked as by its contents. I did not know how to keep it secret,
in order that it should not fall into the hands of any of my family.” Dr. Virchow then said,
“The nation must be compelled to take this thing into its own hands, must swallow and
digest it, and finally work upon it, ... . for everything is based upon this, that we men of
science make our dogmas perfect and complete.” (Comp. Virchow’s speech on “The
Freedom of Science in the Modem State,” delivered 22nd Sept., 1877. Conference of men of
science at Munich). I will point out to Dr. Virchow that between “freedom” and being
“ compelled " there exists a contradiction, and that among his “ perfect and complete dogmas ”
are some which the German nation is too healthy to digest. If it is, however, obliged to
swallow them, nothing will remain for it but to chew them over again, which will leave a
bitterness against those men of science whom our nation and our great statesmen will
degrade to that office. “The delusion of progress is retrogression in progression!’’ said
Heraclitus 2,400 years ago.
Cntresponifence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned ;
copies sliould be kept by the writers.~]
| ( j THE WAIL FROM THE STATUE OF MEMNON—THE “ VEIL ” OF ISIS NOT A VEIL
j I ! —THE POTENTIAL IMMORTALITT OF THE SOUL, AND OTHER DOCTRINES.
i | Sir,—When I questioned Mrs. Showers’ “ qualifications ” it was
| j 1 solely with regard to her letter in The Spiritualist, the only specimen I
i ] had ever seen of her writing, I have not read or heard of the work
111 which, as its translator, she refers to; therefore, however prone to
| / j “jealousy,” I could have felt none on her account.
| | Nor do I see how the passage quoted from Lempriere proves my
111 having “ fallen into an error.” It says the statue of Memnon was
111 vocal after the attack on it by Cambyses (i.e., b.o. 525), but not for how
j (| long after. The earthquake occurred b.c. 27.
| j All Egyptologists, including Birch, agree in following the authority of
i (i Letronne. It is true some savans of the French Expedition fancied
| they heard the “ wailbut this was voted to have been only a “ singing
j | in their ears.”
I Also, I cannot see how the hospitality of Mrs. Showers to an English
j ( Atheist in the year 1872 justifies her strenuous attempt to hoot and hunt
| a Buddhist from our side of the world in the year 1878.
j| Mrs. Showers’ remark on the “Veil of Isis’’—“By the way, it is
II inscribed, * My veil hath no mortal ever raised’ ”—reminds me that there
i | is no veil in the case, in spite of all we have heard about the lifting of it.
i | The garment named by Plutarch is the Greek peplos. In the English
[ ( translation of the Morals (1704) this is rendered “ petticoat.” But the
| ] article worn by the inviolable virgin Isis, or rather Neith, was neither
! | veil, nor petticoat, but was merely a red pair of breeches or
| | knickerbockers.* The only known allusion to this is in the name of
j I Neith (Isis), who is called Tesas-Neith, “ the enveloped form of Neith.”
I | The peplos of Athense answered to this. It was a close-fitting
i i body garment without sleeves, and in the festival of the Pan-
II j athense it was carried aloft as the sail of a ship. This is here
j (| mentioned for a particular reason. When Neith announces that no
III mortal hath lifted her garment, this does not mean the veil of
II i any vague mystery, but the actual fact. She did not represent the
| j I unconceivable nature in the metaphysical, but in the physical sense, on
| j j account of that which she personified as the virgin mother, and the
]) | wearer of the red raiment and crown. The “ veil ” is euphemistic—one
(j of those terms by which the original sense passes out of sight. Every-
! | where we have been victimised by these tricks of language, or modern
| | misrenderings, and everywhere they have to be questioned as to their
j 11 primordial significance. I am here thinking of the attack on our
III poverty of language to express Madame Blavatsky’s meaning.
j j That lady points out that we have but one term to express God and
! | alcohol as two spirits. This is as interesting as it is true. It preserves
j j a primeval fact in language, and tells us where the early namers stood,
j (| It is precisely the same in Egyptian. Sheth is spirits of wine and the
j (| name of a god who as Set, Sheth, Shadi, and in the still earlier form of
j 11 Khet (Egyptian God of Things) has supplied the name or the nature of
| j | half the gods of the world. Our word God is the Egyptian Khet. Not
111 that Sheth or Khet had no other than an alcoholic meaning. Shet
i/j is the mystery of all mysteries, the mystery of fertilisation and
111 fermentation.
(] Another name of Shet (as God) is step, the mystery, most mysterious,
| the mystery of fermentation and fertilisation. It was a name of the
(| Nile as such, and applied to the creative or procreating source. The
111 mystery related primally to the genesis of what is called spirit, but is
i) | based on physics, and language reveals the nature of the earliest
| (| thought. The hieroglyphs and symbols serve to bring us back to the
111 things which were dealt with by the first thinkers, and furnish the
j j j only solid foothold in the past. All the words in the world will add
| I nothing to our knowledge of the nature of God. The Hindus, the
| | greatest jugglers with words on earth, have added nothing to our know-
| < | ledge of that nature. They have evaporised the physical origines of
| (; language into terms for metaphysical subtleties, and then invite us to a
11 j feast of words at which there is nothing to eat. What they have done
i (| with language is done every day by the insects who eat all the nutriment
i 11 out of brown sugar, and leave it tasteless and colourless without
I) | making white sugar of it.
I (| Metaphysics (as founded in the past), and mythology (as misinter-
]) | preted in the present), are the Scylla and Charybdis of Spiritualism.
|) | Kabalistic theories of the “ souls,” based on the three allegorical repre-
j (| sentations of the “ daughters of Adam, the daughters of angels, and the
| j I daughters of sin,” are useless to us. They belong to a class of doctrines
i ) | which must be judged by their origin, and not by the later meaning
| (| read into them. They are both physiological and astronomical, but not
| ) | spiritual in our sense. That is, they shed no light on the creation or
|) | constitution of the spiritual man, apart from or beyond the germinal
j a |' origin. Moreover, when we come to the four elements of air, earth, fire,
i > | and water, we have left the domain of pure myth, in which there are
| ( | but two creative elements, the “ two truths ” of Egypt, male and female
j) | source. The proper mixing of these produced the children of light;
> i the improper, the cohabitation of the sons of God with the daughters of
] ( i Adam (the red), produced the spirits of darkness. So was it figured and
|) | taught in the myths and mysteries. A kind of Spiritualism was thus
I) j evolved, which is notours ; it is not founded on our phenomena. The
| ( | act that underlies the doctrine of the fall, and which begot the children
j;> i of sin, is not creative in any sense; on the contrary, it brought death
j) | into the world ; and yet that same act was credited with producing an
i (i order of evil spirits, as in the Book of Enoch. So was it shadowed
]) j forth, but these shadows are not spiritual. The doctrine of the destruc-
11! tion, the dissolution of individuality, is mythological, and must be
'1 * Vide Champollion’s Pantheon.
April 5, 1878.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
165
explained mythologically, and by the imagery of the earliest thinkers.
I can only assert these things now, but will prove them hereafter. But
let me give one illustration of my meaning. The potential immortality
of the soul is one of the oldest beliefs, common to the barbaric or
aboriginal races of the world, and established, as is here contended, on
the two truths of natural source.
The Fijians believe that everything living has a spirit; but few
spirits, human included, are immortal; few, as they say, attain
immortality. The road to Mbulu is so long, it is so full of difficulties
—like the pilgrim’s progress of the Egyptian ritual—that, after all, very
few reach the land of promise. Many perish by the way: the diseased,
the decrepit, never reach it. No. aged person may expect to arrive.
For the potential immortality is based on the physical potency. The
result of this belief is found in customs most startling to what we term
the more civilised sense. One of these is the compulsory death of the
Fijian whilst “strength,” or, as we say, “ spirit,’’ enough remains for
the journey; and the aged are put to death. Warriors prefer dying in
full vigour. So general was this mode of attaining immortality that
Wilkes did not find one man over forty years of age in a whole town.
The rest had been buried in their belief.* This faith was at the founda¬
tion of the Norseman’s desire for death in battle. He considered it
shameful to end by what we term natural death in a good old age.
“Whom the Gods love die young;” and the young fighters loved to
die young, as more acceptable offerings to the goddesses. And, full
of the fury of fight and in the plenitude of his power, the hero
sought for the kiss of) the Valkyries, and the Norse soul rushed out of
life through the doorway of a wide, wide wound to take the heights of
heaven by storm, and obtain potential immortality by physical prowess.
The doctrine must be read by its origines; judged by its genesis. No
new root is given to it by adding a third aspect—the moral—or con¬
templating our third soul flying like a kite in heaven above us, to which
we are attached by a sort of umbilical cord, and if the cord be strong
enough, and if our kite fly long enough, and we hold on fast enough, it
will ultimately carry us off, and we shall be united for ever with our
floating power, our paper elevator. Theosophists have accepted the
giants, the pre-adamic races, the daughters of sin, and various other
creations entirely mythical, that is, with quite another origin and mean¬
ing as actual facts or spiritual phenomena; have done on behalf of the
Myths just what others have done on behalf of them when found in the
Hebrew sacred writings. I am not making a note of these things to
pander to our Western prejudices, but because it is evident to me that
the only common meeting point for a possible unity of the races must be
on the ground of ascertained and verifiable facts, as in physical science,
not in the regions of ancient beliefs or metaphysical speculation, or the
use of a terminology filched and wrested from the first intentions, and
called spiritual because vaporised. Gerald Massey. .
March 22nd.
TWO MADAME BLAVATSKYS.—THE ACQUAINTANCE OP MADAME H. P. BLAVATSKY
WITH EASTERN COUNTRIES.
Sir,—My attention was called to-day to the letter of Mrs. Showers,
in your issue of March 8th last, and, if you will kindly permit, I will
try to correct one or more misapprehensions of that lady touching the
author of Isis Unveiled—Madame Blavatsky. *
I had the good fortune to meet Miss Kislingbury when she was in our
city a few months since, and was not aware then that she had been so
misled as it would appear she had from Mrs. Showers’s statement. I
have not seen any printed statements of Miss Kislingbury. They may
have been full of errors, but I doubt if they were, judging by the
impression she made on my mind, and which remains yet favourable to
her as a woman of fine talent and good sense. But as for my own
impressions, and those of my acquaintances who have known Madame
Blavatsky in the past, and know her now, concerning her means and
methods of obtaining information in the East, it is proper to say
that she did not rest contented to look about “ as a mere traveller,’’
but did reside with or near the various peoples, sects, initiates, or who
ever was the subject of her inquiries, and as a student of science and
religion.
Having had some peculiar experience, I am qualified somewhat to
sympathise with Madame Blavatsky in her unpleasant position under
the fire of certain critics, who question her personal experience in
different countries, and who even go so far as to throw suspicion upon
her very identity. Only last week a letter passed under my eye con¬
taining inquiries to this effect, written in Aden, in Arabia:—Is the
Madame Blavatsky the real Madame Blavatsky who was so well known
in Cairo, Aden, and elsewhere a few years since ? For if she is, she
must have revived, for the real Madame Blavatsky died at her friend’s
residence six or seven miles from that city in 1868. The reaF Madame
was a Russian lady of family and fortune, and of considerable literary
ability and reputation. She had a large amount of written materials with
her at the time of her death. These materials disappeared, together with
an amanuensis, who had been a constant and trusted companion. Is it
not possible this amanuensis has assumed the name, rank, and character
of the deceased lady ?
Good fortune favours the diligent, and Madame Blavatsky is one of
the most earnest workers in the literary world. The many columns of
correspondence from her pen show that; and now there comes upon the
scene, as if by magic, Madame Lydie de Paschkoff, a Russian countess,
member of the Geographical Society of France, of a notable family,
great fortune, and a traveller for many years. Madame Paschkoff
fortunately knew the Madame Nathalie Blavatsky who died in Aden,
and also knows, and has known, for many years Madame H. P.
Blavatsky, having met her in Syria, in Egypt, and elsewhere in the
East. Others of my acquaintance have met Madame Blavatsky in the
far East; others have heard of her residence there; for instance, the
* ‘Willies’ Exploring Expedition. Williams’ Fiji and the Fijians.
eminent physician and surgeon, David E. Dudley, M.D., of Manilla,
Philippine Islands, who spent some months in this city recently, and is
now on his way to return to his Eastern home; Mr. Frank A. Hill, of
Boston, Mass., who was in India some years since. Both these gentlemen
corroborate many of her statements.
I have never heard of such a thing as a visit to a pagoda by a woman,
and it is very doubtful if the Madame means to intimate that she was
able to break through that ancient wall of priestly prejudice. She has
said in my hearing several times that no woman that is known has ever
penetrated to the interior—to the secret places of the pagoda. But
aside from this, there are ways and means of getting esoteric information.
Merely visiting in person the interior of a pagoda, or temple, or any
other “secret” place, would afford little instruction. Every student
and traveller knows there are brotherhoods‘in the East, who have access
to all the knowledge, esoteric as well as exoteric, among whom even a
woman may move as a student and inquirer. There is no doubt in my
mind that Madame Blavatsky was made acquainted with many, if not
quite all, of the rites, ceremonies, and instructions practised among the
Druzes of Mount Lebanon in Syria, for she speaks to me of things that
are only known by the favoured few who have been initiated.
The world may possibly profit by such people as “apostate priests,”
if such persons happen to have peculiar information with the ability
and courage to make it known. Mrs. Showers would not seriously
condemn a priest for an honest change of position ; say, for instance,
if one should become convinced of the claims and the truth of Spirit¬
ualism : he would be an apostate to the Church, and possibly a gain to
Spiritualism. Such a case we had here in Toronto, Canada, a few
months since, and the Rev. Mr. Marples (that was) is the Spiritualist
lecturer, who is now a very popular man.
I hope you will not condemn me as an “ apostate,” if the review of
your correspondent’s remarks on the achievements of the Christian
Church shall seem to be severe. She says, “ Wherever Christianity
has planted its standard, it has displaced something that was worse,
never anything that was better.” My studies of the history of the
Church have led me to the conclusion that Christianity owes its origin
to the doctrines, faith, rites and ceremonies of such sects as the Mithra
worshippers, the Gnostics, and the Therapeuts of the early ages of our
era, say, before the time Eusebius made the Church history, which has
not, and never had, a rival: its unique information is its peculiar
property ; and yet from it a Spiritualist may learn that what has been
claimed as the peculiar property, through Divine revelation to the
Church by its apostles, was known to the world for ages before the
Church was in existence, and by the same familiar means by which we
get such information nowadays, and which some churchmen denounce
as “humbug,” “delusion,” and other phrases, indicating to such as
have had personal experience in some peculiar matters, that the church¬
men are simply inexperienced—we need not use a stronger term, nor
question their integrity. Will Mrs. Showers undertake to doubt the
personal experience of another lady on the ground of her want of
knowledge of any similar experience in her own life ? I think not.
It is the opinion of some students of history that Christianity did
displace a better faith, or, at least, a better condition of society, when
it drove out of society the broad toleration of the Greeks and Romans,
and substituted the narrow intolerance of the Church. One result of
this change was the decay of the fine arts throughout the Levant and
Europe and Asia Minor generally, followed by the Dark Ages, when
knowledge outside of the Church was next to impossible, and the
works of the fine arts were only safe underground. Modern scepticism
has done more to open the doors of knowledge to the great body of
humanity than ever the Church did. Literature, the arts and sciences,
were never more widely and earnestly studied since the days of tho
Academy of the Greeks.
Herodotus tells us a few things about “the feminine attendants
round and about the temples ” of the Aryan Greeks, which facts may
be compared with similar facts concerning the Nautch girls of India,
and the devoted ” maids of the ancient Hebrews, as, for instance,
Jephthah’s daughter. The ancients made a much wider and more
public use of certain symbols of the Creative Power than do our
religious teachers. We do not condemn nor despise such emblems, for
they may have a deeper significance than we can know at present.
One would infer from Mrs, Showers’ letter that the Madame did
not enjoy an acquaintance among Christians here in New York. I
know of several clergymen who have occasionally visited her, and one
who is a D.D., and an author of some fame, whom I have met at
her house two or three times. His visits seem to be on cordial
terms; there was no antagonism nor bitterness apparent at the
interviews.
On the subject of the “ pools,” we have a living witness in this city
in the person of the artist, Mr. Walter Paris, who was in the employ
of the Government making sketches and drawings in India, and who
says he visited one of the so-called pools. There were near it several
fakirs, who slept, ate, and in fact lived where the crocodiles came
among them at will, without attempt at mischief to the fakirs,
although they were vicious towards strangers, as he found, to his
imminent danger when he ventured too near the pool one day. Many
other corroborations are ready, if wanted.
On the matter of Madame Blavatsky’s reticence as to her own
experience, I may venture a word or two. She chooses to write under
cover of the editorial “ we,’’ for she is not a fame hunter, and preferred
that impersonal manner of presenting her conclusions in matters relating
to science and religion. In my visits to the Levant, her name has
been frequently met with, in Tripolis, Beirut, Deir el Kamer,
Damascus, Jerusalem, and Cairo. She was also well known to a
merchant at Jiddah, who had a ring with her initials, which he said
was a present to him from her. His servant, a camel-driver formerly,
says he was dragoman and camelji to Madame Blavatsky from Jiddah
to Mecca, I inquired of the Shereef of Mecca, but heard nothing of
166
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apkii. 5, 1878.
her there. She may have been incog, while there for prudential
reasons. My visit was made as a Mohammedan divinity student, and
secretary to Kamil Pasha, in whose company I journeyed.
The editor of the Builder of this city, Mr'. William O’Grady, a
native of Madras, India, visits Madame Blavatsky frequently, having j
known her in India.
Why repeat these evidences ? One accepted testimony is sufficient }
—a thousand insufficient to the unwilling soul.
Perhaps the antagonism of Mrs. Showers is due to th,e apparent
hostility of Madame Blavatsky to the present phase of Spiritualism, |
which makes so much use of spirits.
My experience has led me to the conclusion that far too much im- I
portance has been, and is, attributed to the supposed presence and j
action of “spirits.” Precisely similar phenomena can be witnessed j
almost anywhere in the East to those we see in Europe and [
America, and the actors believe the results proceed from what they j
understand to be magic. Now, I do not undertake to define between
Spiritualism and magic. The result might be Spiritualism with the
spirits left out, and some one would quote the saying about the play
of Hamlet with the prince left out.
But such is my position. I have so many times seen phenomena
here, in Egypt, Syria, in the Greek islands, and elsewhere in the
Levant, that it is safe to say I recognise similar appearances when
present.
In this city and London, the “ spirits ” are credited with the work ;
in the Levant the credit is given to the magic arts. And magic, as all
its Eastern adepts have told me, is the discriminating exercise of the
educated human Will. A.L. Rawson, M.D., D.D., LL.D.
84, Bond-street, New York, March 18th, 1878.
[Readers on this side of the Atlantic are requested not to take further part
in this controversy, except to make brief statements of facts, or there will be
no end to it. Those on the other side have now a right to be heard.—En.J
DB. W. B. CARPENTER AND DR. F. G. LEE.
Sir,—If Spiritualists complain—as they do not unreasonably—of
unfairness on the part of Dr. W. B. Carpenter, they ought to be all
the more careful not to misrepresent his words by partial quotation, or
any other garbling, and so expose themselves to the risk of a tu quoque
from him.
Whether Dr. E. G. Lee would accept the name Spiritualist, I do not
know; but he is one of us in some sense, for he believes that disem¬
bodied spirits can, under certain circumstances, manifest them¬
selves to, and communicate with, spirits still encumbered with flesh
and bones.
In his last volume of collected ghost stories, called, Afore Glimpses
of the World Unseen, page xii., Dr. Lee says of Dr. Carpenter :—“ This j
learned scientific gentleman, on page 114 [of Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
fyc,, Historically and Scientifically Treated'], declares that upon this I
subject [Spiritualism] | no amount of testimony is good for anything.’
Sic cadit qucestio." And a little farther on he insinuates that Dr. ]
Carpenter disregards the ordinary laws of evidence.
This seems to me scarcely ingenuous. What Dr. Carpenter really |
does say is :—‘1 When, therefore, I receive narratives from persons
quite credible in regard to ordinary matters, as to extraordinary
occurrences which have taken place within their knowledge, I think )
myself justified in telling them plainly that their conviction cannot
govern my belief, because both theory and experience have led me to
the conclusion that no amount of testimony is good for anything which
is given by persons f possessed’ with a ‘dominant idea’ in regard to
the subject of it, and which has not been tested by severe cross-
examination.”
Or, as he expresses it a few lines above, “ until the facts of the case
shall have been so thoroughly sifted by the investigation of ‘ sceptical j
experts ’ as to present an irresistible claim on our belief.”
Dr. Carpenter does not restrict his “ affirmation ” to Spiritualism, !
but applies it to any such extraordinary occurrence as the asserted j
“ conversion of an old woman into a hare (or vice versa), or the change
of a hare into two rabbits.” And what can fairly be objected to in the
assertion that testimony as to such extraordinary occurrences, given by j
an out-and-out partisan, is good for nothing, unless thoroughly inves¬
tigated, sifted, and tested by competent persons ? It is only what !
ought always to be remembered and acted upon in j udging of all !1
testimony, but which, according to my views of evidence and proof, is j!
far too much forgotten and neglected in what is commonly brought j i
forward in support of Spiritualism, and even urged as conclusive in its j1
favour.
How Dr. Carpenter would work his own principle is quite another i1
matter. Whether he—a person “ possessed with a dominant idea ” i ]
that the appearance of a departed human spirit is impossible—would I i
admit any amount of testimony in its favour to be “ irresistible,” may | 1
be doubted. Even if the “sceptical expert” himself were converted, | ]
he might perhaps be snubbed as not being sufficiently sceptical, or not ! i
sufficiently expert, for his conviction to govern Dr. Carpenter’s belief, j 1
As to this, we need not decide; but let us not find fault with Dr. I ]
Carpenter’s affirmations when there is no good reason for doing so, but j i
set him a good example of scrupulous fairness. I <
Now, can you kindly spare me a few lines to correct an unfortunate j J
mistake, which I have lately observed in my letter in The Spiritualist j i
of January 4th, page 8, by which my assertion that all the pronouns j <
except one, in my quotation from Dr. Carpenter, really referred not to j j
Dr. Davies, but to his friend, is made untrue. j (
The third paragraph of my letter should commence as follows :—On I 1
page 558 of Fraser's Magazine for November, Dr. Carpenter says, i |
“ The Reverend C. Maurice Davies thus describes,” &c. It stood j i
so in my rough draft, and the words here omitted were inadvertently I J
introduced in hastily writing the copy to send you.
| I unreservedly admit that haste is no excuse for negligence. I mention
\ it merely as the explanation of how the blunder originated.
W. Whitear.
High-street, Hornsey, March 25th, 1878.
| DIRECT SPIRIT DRAWING.
} Sir,—On Tuesday evening, 26th March, Mr. Arthur Colman gave a
j seance to my friends, Mrs. B——, Miss B , and myself.
] Lights out, we had some conversation with the spirit friends by
! means of the direct voice, the voices being unusually clear and distinct,
| and Mr. Colman and the spirits at times speaking simultaneously. The
[ | musical box, standing at my side, was started, and stopped several
\ | times, without the lid being raised, indicating the presence of an
I I intelligence to whom neither darkness nor the wooden lid was an
II obstacle, and who was acquainted with the proper stops for manipu-
i j lating the box, although that particular box had never previously been
|! flayed in Mr. Colman’s presence.
, i The table being raised by spirit power, a pencil lying thereon was
| thrown off. Having expressed our inability to find it in the dark,
1 “Johnny” desired us to leave it to him, and immediately, almost as
he spoke, the pencil was laid upon the table. Had any of us, medium
or sitters, attempted this, there must have been an awkward groping
on the floor for some minutes.
Mr. Colman having brought some clean white cards with him, had
given each of us one when we first took our places. These were laid
in front of us on the table. The gas being relighted, we were requested
j by a spirit, now speaking through Mr. Colman, to examine our cards
| carefully on both sides. We did so, finding them perfectly spotless.
I A corner was then torn off each one of the cards, and we were
| requested each of us to carefully preserve our especial corners. This
| was scrupulously obeyed, the separated corners of each of our cards
I remaining in our own individual safe keeping.
j The cards, minus corners, remained upon the table in front of each
! of us. We were directed to place our hands together in a heap on the
1 the table; the gas was put out, and Mr. Colman, coming round to the
■ back of us, leaned over our shoulders, and placed his hands on ours, so
I that we all felt his hands.
j He continued talking with us, but in less than a minute, certainly
| not more than a minute, the pencil fell upon the table, as if pitched by
j a hand, and we were requested to re-light the gas.
| We did so, and found that upon one of the cards left upon the table
had been produced a very perfect and beautiful drawing of the
| “ Magdalene,” with a beautifully shaded cross on one side, and a little
; flower in one corner. Underneath, in most minute and delicately
formed letters, were written the words—“ Her sins, which are many,
are forgiven ; for she loved much.”
On another card appeared a message to Miss B—- from a relative,
containing one hundred and thirty-six words, written in the same
extremely minute beautiful handwriting.
The third card remained spotless, as at first.
On comparing our corners with the cards from which they had been
torn, the corners having never left our possession, we found them to
fit exactly. I do not think that by the longest practice would it be
possible to tear off corners from several cards exactly in the same way,
so that the corners would fit the cards indiscriminately.
The cards will remain on view with me for some time, and may be
seen by any one desirous of inspecting them.
Catherine Woodforde.
March 31st, 90, Great Russell-streot.
CRTSTALLOMANCr.
j Sir,—-The paper on Crystallomancy, reported in your last issue, will
j doubtless be the means of exciting considerable interest in the subject.
I It would appear that certain persons may develop a species of clairvoy¬
ance by means of the crystal, who would not otherwise be capable of its
exercise. I imagine that further information on the matter would be
| acceptable to many of your readers, who may desire to know the kind
of crystal best suited for making the experiment with, and where it
may be obtained; the nature and construction of the mirror, and how it
is to be used. Should the light be subdued, when making the experi¬
ment ? Should a person using the mirror look directly into it, so as to
see the reflection of his own honest face, or obliquely ? I trust that
information will be afforded on these and other matters requisite to be
I known. J. W. Hunter.
Stockton-on-Tees, April 1st, 1878.
CLAIRVOTANCE.
| Sir,—I have been rarely more surprised than by reading, in
your journal of March 29th, the extract Credo Quia Impossibile gives
| from the Table Talk of Samuel Rogers, wherein this superior poet says,
“ Still, I cannot believe in clairvoyance, because the thing is impossible,”
| Has not Samuel Rogers, in his poetry, said the very reverse of the
i above ? Do we not find that in his Human Life he has written a few
| of the most touching lines in existence on this very subject, showing how
| superior a man may be under the poetic vein to what he is when giving
details of gossip ? Here are the lines. They describe a scene at
a death-bed:—
They who watch by him see not, but he sees,
Sees and exults. Were ever dreams like these ?
| Those who watch by him hear not, but he hears,
And earth recedes, and heaven itself appears.
This is not the first time that I have quoted the above lines in your journal
and elsewhere, and I have reason to think that the poet, as a spirit,
was glad that they should have been quoted, as showing his own
opinion now ; and it seems to me also, perhaps, that there was a desire
April 5, 1878,
THE SPIBITUALIST,
167
in the spirit to make reparation for words written carelessly and in
conformity with worldly wisdom.
Alexis Didier, in his most instructive book, Le Sommeil Magnetique
JExplique, corroborates and gives a long account of ‘ ‘ some circumstances
which had happened in Spain to Col. Gurwood, alluded to also by Credo
quia impossibile, Wellington’s biographer. It ended in Col. Gurwood,
through the clairvoyance of Alexis, seeking out and finding an old
French officer in 1844, then the Commandant Bonfilk, chef de bataillon
en retraite, whose life he had saved during the Peninsular War. The
account goes on to show that Col. Gurwood, having received an
interesting letter from the old French officer, brought about by the
somnambulic utterances of Alexis, he (Col. Gurwood) went all the way
to Villareal (Lot et Garonne) to visit him. Here is the account of his
visit, given by Col. Gurwood to an acquaintance:—“ This brave com¬
mandant’s letter gave me so much pleasure that I determined, on my
next journey to France, to visit him; and I am now returning from
that visit of some days, which I regard as among the most agreeable of
my life. If you had seen our mutual recognition, and the joy of all his
family! And greatly was I interested in the events of M. Bonfilk’s
life, which were in full conformity with what 1 had been told by Alexis.
Sorutatob.
SPIRITUALISM IN EAST LONDON.
Sib,— Several persons having expressed a desire to form a psycho¬
logical association in this locality, for the study of mesmerism and the
investigation of the phenomena called Spiritual, a meeting for that
purpose will take place at 6, Field View-terrace, London-fields, E., on
Tuesday, April 9th, at 8 p.m., when the modus operandi of mesmerism
will be explained, with experiments. Admission free.
Charles Rhys Williams.
6, Field View-terrace, London-fields, E.
March 28th, 1878.  
Sir,—Will you kindly insert, for the information of the East End
Spiritualists, that I have the promise of a hall (a late Baptist Chapel),
which can be entirely devoted to the interests of Spiritualism, if a dozen
or more gentlemen would aid me in the work. Anybody who writes to
me can have the particulars. I have five names, but want at least
seven more. J. Cain.
8, Bloomfield-road, Bow, E., March 31st, 1878.
EXPERIMENT VERSUS OVER-SPECULATION.
Sir,—I am sure the general reader will accord to you praise for the
fair and catholic spirit you show in giving all persons a fair hearing in
your paper. Of late we have had Theosophy pretty well exhibited, and
probably we now know as much about that subject as its adherents can
tell us, or care to tell us. Whether that will help any in furthering
psychological inquiry and experiment remains to be seen. At any rate
I sincerely hope that the rather peppery correspondence which has been
printed upon it is about to subside in favour of something dealing more
obviously with facts. I write this with all deference to the learned in
ancient occult lore, and I imagine there must be many who think
with me.
I have been greatly struck with the advance made recently in connec¬
tion with materialisations, which, if reports be accurate, gives us good
hope that at no distant date the dark cabinet may be dispensed with,
and the phenomena closely watched and studied. May I be permitted
to make a remark here, expressive of a little disappointment with the
results of seances held at the rooms of the British National Association
of Spiritualists. Unless memory fails me, I think no materialisation of
any consequence has yet taken place before the seance committee. How
is this to be accounted for ? Favourable conditions are of course
essential, and these it may not always be possible to command at a given
time; but there can be little doubt that if a materialisation without a
cabinet, such as has recently been reported, could be repeated before the
committee, it would not fail to give a great impetus to psychological
interest and inquiry, because of the extended corroboration of the fact.
One such report would be worth a good deal of occult or metaphysical
reading (I mean no discourtesy), if it were for no other reason than
that it related to a fact which could be seen, heard, and handled.
Patience.
Edinburgh.  
THE ALLEGED SPIRIT OP NANA SAHIB.
Sir,—In the account of a seance held at Naples, at which the spirit
of Nana Sahib controlled, as printed in this week’s Spiritualist, “ the
well at Lucknow ” is mentioned. The Nana, or the medium, or Signor
Damiani has made a mistake. It ought to be the well at Cawnpore.
One who was sent to the Rescue.
INDIAN MYSTICISMS.
Sir,—In reference to an article in The Spiritualist of 22nd instant,
taken from the Oriental Annual, I have had thirteen years’ expe¬
rience in India and Ceylon, and have seen similar feats; therefore, I
can bear witness to their truth. When I was stationed at Ghazipore,
on the banks of the Ganges, in 1857, some native jugglers came into
the Government opium godowns, when about 150 of us were doing
duty. We formed a circle around them in the open parade, at or about
midday, in the month of December. The jugglers had some round
stones, which we' handled, and, having satisfied ourselves they were
stones, we placed them on the ground, a yard from the natives, who
muttered some words, and touched the stones with a stick. The stones
then disappeared, or were transformed into little living snakes, about a
foot and a half long each. They wriggled and hissed, causing the
circle of about twenty men to widen. The jugglers touched the little
live snakes again with their sticks or wands, and called on Ram-Ram,
The snakes then turned again into stones. I immediately took up one
of these snakes, or stones, and smashed it on a flag-stone brought for
the purpose. It was simply a stone. Where the snakes went to, or
where they came from, was a puzzle to us. The men had nothing with
them; they were naked to the waist. They also produced cocks’ heads
alive in a similar manner. They then asked for four bed sheets, which
they fixed up in the open, so as to form a kind of cabinet. An old man
entered this cabinet, which was taken down a minute afterwards. The
old man was then perceived sitting cross-legged in the air, apparently
on nothing. Officers slashed their swords underneath, to cut away the
supposed invisible machinery he was sitting upon; but, no, he still sat
in the air. The sheets were then re-erected, and the old man descended
to earth once more. I could write a book full of things of this kind,
which I have seen in Ceylon and India. Suffice to say, I never came
across any person capable of explaining these marvels to me or any
one else. J. Cain.
8, Bloomfield-row, Bow, London.
AN INQUIRER’S THOUGHTS ABOUT MEDIUMS.
Sir,—A few words on our recent critics. The truly progressive
character of The Spiritualist newspaper is nowhere more manifested
than in the wide license it gives to criticism of every description. I was
specially pleased with the remarks on “ Lady Farquhar’s Old Lady ” of
a few weeks since, and quite agree with the writer that it is an unthank¬
ful task to “ take the shine ” out of a good story. At the same time we
must remember that in sifting the pure gold of every science from the
dross, we are performing the most useful and indispensable literary work.
I could not help admiring the boldness of the Cirencester critic, who says
how much more satisfactory it would have been during the movement
of material objects, had the hands of the medium been visible through¬
out the manifestations. I quite agree with him, and cannot but add
that it is hard for an earnest investigator to sometimes find a professional
medium so extremely sensitive and averse to the faintest show of
doubt or criticism, as to render the expression of honest adverse opinion
painful, and the application of really satisfactory tests impossible. It is,
I again say, hard for an inquirer, after having faced opposition, travelled,
it may be, hundreds of miles, at greater or less inconvenience, at
perhaps a second or third sitting, to be rated either by spirits or medium
for having ventured to express disappointment or doubt as to the
genuineness of the manifestations. Such a one is rather in the position
of the blind man of the Gospel(l cast out of the synagogue,” but, unlike
him, finding no rest in the gentle heart of the persecuted Nazarene {alias
Spiritualism). That mediums are sensitive, and that every possible
consideration should be shown them, there can be but little doubt; but,
as Dr. C. Blake justly observes, “ in a matter of pure science, sentiment
has no part.” Dark seances and cabinets have done their work and
had their day ; and, as a means of proselytising, especially among the
scientific and sceptical, they are useless, perhaps worse; and I sincerely
trust they will, ere long, be regarded as belonging to the ‘5 dark ages ” of
Spiritualism. Until these are done away with, and all obstacles to the
expression of honest opinion removed, Spiritualism can never become
what I earnestly hope it may, viz., the bread of life to the million, and
the “ little leaven that leaveneth the whole lump ” to the scientist.
Eliza Rougher.
Albion Villa, Fremantle-square, Bristol.
MISREPRESENTATIONS OP SPIRITUALISTS.
To the Editor of the “ Christian World."
Sir,—Will you allow me to correct some of the statements made in
the last issue of your journal, by Mr. William Howitt, concerning the
British National Association of Spiritualists—statements which are
likely to mislead many of your readers as to questions of fact. I may
say, at the outset, that Mr. Howitt has been living abroad for some
years, and that some excuse may, therefore, be made for his imperfect
knowledge of what is going on in the matter of Spiritualism in England.
Mr. Howitt thinks it necessary to warn your readers against an
association which requires its members to “ renounce Christianity,
their utter hostility to which is every day more publicly manifested.”
This sweeping and un-Christian denunciation is utterly unfounded.
It is true that members of the Association are not required to make
any confession of creed, any more than in the Royal ^Geographical
Society or the Royal Institution of Great Britain. The National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists was formed, as the enclosed prospectus will
show you, for the purpose of “ uniting Spiritualists of every variety
of opinion,” and “ to aid students and inquirers in their researches by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into the
now recognised facts and phenomena called spiritual or psychic.” In
electing members to the Association, the Council avails itself of the
usual precautions to insure, as far as possible, that they shall be men
and women of honourable character and blameless life ; but it does not
inquire into, nor in any way interfere with, their religious belief. By this
exercise of toleration, the Association now numbers in its ranks mem¬
bers of all the Churches of Christendom, including clergymen of various
denominations; it goes even further, and does not exclude Jews or
Buddhists. This it is which so greatly shocks Mr. Howitt, but which,
I trust, will not act as a deterrent to the majority of inquirers.
Again, Mr. Howitt speaks oiThe Spiritualist newspaper as the u organ
of the Association.” Allow me to say that the Association as yet pos¬
sesses no “ organ ” whatever. The Spiritualist is the property of its
editor, who inserts reports of the Association’s meetings, and publishes
its advertisements, in the ordinary course; but he does not demand
uniformity of opinion in his contributors.
I have no wish to enter into any controversy, or to express any
opinion on this occasion. I only ask you, in the cause of justice, to
insert this reply to Mr. Howitt’s misstatements, and to his misrepre¬
sentations of the only organised effort that has ever been made in this
country to place Spiritualism before the public on a basis which pre¬
cludes imposture, and which entitles it to the respect of thoughtful
and scientific minds.—Your obedient servant, E. Kislingbury.
38, Great Russell-street, March 23rd, 1878,
168
THE SPIKITUALIST.
April 5, 1878.
PAKAFFIN MOULDS OF TEMPORARILY MATERIALISED f I
SPIRIT HANDS. : - i
From “The Banner of Light" (Boston, U.8.), Feb. §th, 1878. |||
At a public meeting at Paine Hall, Boston, on the evening of |||
Feb. 20th, 1876, Mrs. Hardy was placed in a bag of mosquito netting, i|j
and the top strongly secured around her neck by Dr. H. F. Gardner, i j
John Verity, a well-known materialist, and Zenas T. Haines, assistant i jl
editor of the Boston Herald, were chosen to act as a committee for the in
audience. Under a covered table a pail of paraffin and a bowl for the j (j
reception of the expected mould were placed. Mrs. Hardy was seated j j
alone behind the table and in view of the audience, so that her slightest I /
motion was visible, while the committee had entire charge of the j ji
platform. The sitting resulted in the production of a fine mould of a j j|
feminine hand. Mr. Verity stated to the audience that the sack was j/j
whole, that there was no evidence of its having been tampered with, ||j
and that it was inexplicable how the mould had been deposited there, jj
Certainly, there was no reason to suppose that it had been done by Mrs. j j
Hardy. i j
Anxious now for a test that should meet still more thoroughly the j j
demands of science, Dr. Gardner had a box made for the purpose. ! j
This box, rectangular in shape, is thirty inches long, thirty deep, and j
twenty-four wide. The four posts of the framework are of wood, as i
are the bottom and the folding cover; and the part between the cover j J
and the wirework is of wood, eight and a half inches in height, and
pierced with holes about an inch apart, and originally threequarters of
an inch in diameter, but subsequently reduced, by an interior lining,
to one quarter of an inch. The wire carried round the box is in a
single piece, the two ends coming together on one of the corner posts,
and at the point of contact being covered with a strip of wood firmly
nailed to the post. The cover is in two parts, opening from the centre j
outward ; one fold of the cover may be secured by two bolts that run
into the woodwork on each side. The other fold was at first secured by
a single lever lock, j The wirework is a strong, thick, three-eighth mesh.
After several successful experiments at which we were not present, j !
attention was called to certain defects in the box, and it was improved j j
and repaired so as to obviate all objections. Two locks, one at each j j
side, made the cover, when shut, bolted and locked, tight and secure, ijj
The holes in the woodwork were reduced as already described, and no j
flaw was left unremedied. j i
We have been thus particular in our description of the box, because j
we regard it as the instrument of a test wholly unaffected by any ji
question as to the medium’s good faith in the case. After a thorough j
examination of the box, both immediately before and after the sittings (j
at which we were present, we were satisfied that if a mould of a hand j j
could be deposited in it under the conditions, the said mould must be j j
put there by other means than those at the command of the unaided j
medium. The very purpose of the box was to have it served as an j j
assurance against fraud under the conditions, so that whatever charge i
of trickery might be brought against the medium as practised before or j
after, it would not impair the force of a successful experiment. We /j
had no disposition to waste our time on an investigation where no j
certainty could be had. j i
The experiment having been twice tried and twice successful, in the j j
presence of a majority of the undersigned, we now frankly accept the j j
conclusion : We have all had the proof that a mould of a perfect hand j
was deposited in the closed and locked box by some other means than j j
those which a human being, within the normal limitations of the J j
physical and visible body, could employ; and, under the conditions, we I
do not admit, as pertinent to this particular case, the inquiry whether j
the medium has or has not, on any occasion previous or subsequent, j j
resorted to fraud in the production of phenomena supposed to be j j
spiritual. "ill
The following were the circumstances :— ijj
Monday, May 1st, 1876, present in the basement of Mr. Hardy’s I jj
house, No. 4, Concord-square, Boston, were Col. Frederick A. Pope, i j
John Wetherbee, J. S. Draper, Epes Sargent, Mrs. Dora Brigham, and j j j
Mr. and Mrs. Hardy. The box was thoroughly examined. Col. Pope, ; j
an expert in all carpentering work, turned the box upside down, and j I
tested it on all sides, inside and out, the other gentlemen looking on, i j I
and afterwards examining it themselves. Particular care was taken to i 11
see how far, by working with an iron instrument, the wire interstice j j j
could be enlarged, and then replaced, so as to admit of the passage of j !
anything more than half an inch in diameter. This was found imprac- I j
ticable under the conditions; while an enlargement for the admission of j
a hand could not have been made without forcibly severing or untwisting j j
the wires in a way that could not fail of detection.
Every one being satisfied as to the security of the box, Mr. Wetherbee j j
lifted a pail of clear, cold water, which after being examined under- j j
neath and on all sides was placed in the box. Colonel Pope lifted the j j j
pail of hot water with a top layer of paraffin (which we tested by jj
touch, stirred about, found to be all in a melted and fluid state), and j
placed it, after examination, in the box. The covers were then closed,
bolted, and locked ; and, to make security doubly secure (though the j
precaution was needless, since we could all the time see the medium), j
seals were put on both keyholes, also across the seam between the shut j!
covers, and also across the lines of separation at the sides. As the room j j
was light we could all now see, and did see, through the wire of the j j j
box, that, except the pails and their contents, there was nothing else I j i*
inside of it. j j j
In order to produce a dark chamber for the operating force, a cloth !)!
was now thrown over the box, and the light of the room was subdued, j j j
but not so much that we could not distinguish the time of day by our i j j
watches, and see one another’s face and movements, including those of j j j
the medium. Mrs. Hardy took a seat in front of the circle, and just j j j
behind the box, at one of its narrow sides. Mr. Hardy kept aloof all jji
the while, and took a seat in the rear of all the rest.
No checks or restrictions were put upon the sitters. There was no * '
singing, no noise, though conversation in a low tone was going on much
of the time. Mrs. Hardy was in her natural state, easy and unpre¬
occupied. The harmony of the circle was perfect, and all eyes were on
the medium. Occasionally a question would be put to the operating
force, and it would be answered by raps. At length, after a lapse of
perhaps forty minutes, a quick succession of jubilant raps announced
that a result had been attained. All rose from their seats, we took off
the cloth, looked in through the wires, and there, floating in the pail of
water, was a full-sized, perfect mould of a large hand. We looked at
the seals : not one had been disturbed. We again carefully tested all
the sides of the box ; wood and wire were perfect; all parts were un¬
impaired, unchanged. Then, removing the seals from the keyholes, we
unlocked and unbolted the cover, lifted the pail, and took out the
mould. We saw and still see no escape from the conviction that the
mould had been formed and placed there by some power capable of
materialising the members of an organism wholly distinct from the
physique of the medium.
Thursday, May 4th, a second sitting was had, at which, in addition
to the persons already named, Mr. J. W. Day, of the Banner of Light,
and Mr. J. F. Alderman were present. The conditions were the same,
and the success was, if possible, greater than at the sitting of May 1st,
inasmuch as the mould was larger and.the fingers more spread. The
same precautions were.taken both before and after the sitting ; the box
was twice thoroughly overhauled and examined by the six gentlemen
of the party. A doubt having been raised as to the hinges, a screw¬
driver was obtained, and the screws tested and tightened. Besides the
mould in the pail of water, a part of another one was found on the floor
of the box.
Our conclusions are :—
1. That the mould of a full-sized, perfect hand was produced in a
closed box by some unknown power exercising intelligence and manual
activity.
2. That the conditions of the experiment were independent of all
reliance on the character and good faith of the medium, though the
genuineness of her mediumship has been fully vindicated by the result.
3. That these conditions were so simple and so stringent as to com¬
pletely exclude all opportunities for fraud and all contrivances for
illusion, so that our realisation of the conclusiveness of the test is
perfect.
4. That the fact, long known to investigators, that evanescent, ma¬
terialised hands, guided by intelligence and projected from an invisible
organism, can be made visible and tangible, receives confirmation from
this duplicated test.
5. That the experiment of the mould, coupled with that of the so-
called spirit photograph, gives objective proof of the operation of an
intelligent force outside of any visible organism, and offers a fair basis
for scientific investigation.
6. That the inquiry, “ How was that mould produced within that
box 1 ’’ leads to considerations that must have a most important bearing
on the philosophy of the future, as well as on the problems of psycho¬
logy and physiology, and opens new views of the latent powers and high
destiny of man.
J. F. Alderman, 46, Congress-street, Boston.
Mrs. Dora Brigham, 3, James-street, Franklin-sq.
Col. Frederick A. Pope, 69, Montgomery-street.
John W. Day, 9, Montgomery-place.
John Wetherbee, 48, Congress-street.
Epes Sargent, 67, Moreland-street.
J. S. Draper, Way land, Mass.
The Swedenborgians have started a neat little weekly paper, called
The Morning Light, published by James Speirs, Bloomsbury-street,
London. It is to be hoped that it is not so narrow and intolerant as its
monthly predecessor, which refused to insert advertisements relating to
Spiritualism.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
We have received a Post-Office Order from India, without any information as
to who sent it, or what town it came from.
A. H.—You should put your name and address to your communications.
Mrs. J. B. Mitchell, of New York, writes with some warmth that she is not
a Spiritualist, but a communicant in the Presbyterian church; that she
has known Madame Blavatsky for three years ; that Madame Blavatsky is
a truthful woman, living a good life, and that the questioning of the bond fide
nature of her writings by Mrs. Showers is not well founded.
X.—We have never said a word against writers exercising their right of
sending a circular to various journals, but against their doing it surrep¬
titiously, leaving each editor to suppose he has a special contribution, when
it is not one. It is a recognised breach of literary etiquette and of natural
good taste. A man some time since played us this trick about four times,
then denied that he had done so.
T. E., Croydon.—No connection has as yet been traced between electricity
and the forces used by spirits at stances. Mr. Yarley and Mr. Harrison
tried experiments on this head, with exquisitely delicate and sensitive
apparatus, but the raps set up no electrical disturbance. A strong medium
is usually an impulsive person, readily put to sleep by mesmeric passes.
It has been said that when a strong medium is u under control,” a mortal
mesmerist cannot influence him.
B. —When individuals attempt to make differences between principals, they
try to keep them apart, then to let a long course of slander and innuendo,
from several directions, do its work. When the principals are upright
people they know at once that the assertions must be false, and that they
have to deal with individuals who indulge in the suggestio falsi and sup-
pressio veri, as well as in direct untruths; then, by comparing notes, they
lay bare to each other the machinations of the lower camp followers hanging
about their own and every other great movement. We think that a smaller
proportion of these low-class people hangs about the Spiritualistic movement
than about others.
April 5, 1878.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit-
nalists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
* who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com-
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ PoughTcetpsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . R .
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. ,,
The Seer. „ III. ,. • •
The Reformer. „ IV. .. . •
The Thinker. ., V. „ . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ol A J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabuia, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ,
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence J . .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their EarthlyVictims , .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures
*. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
.50
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 0
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
, 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 0
. 0 0
. 7 0
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 0
. 3 0
.76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete, with wellrauthenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE'; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U. S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
0
0
0
12 6
0
6
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 21 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Thb SpibituaIiIst Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ......
The Wheel pf the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ....
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trim Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Transited into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . ... . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem SpirituaJism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vois. . . . . ... IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . , . , 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
SlMULTAHEOUSLY WITNESSED BY THE AUTHOR AND OTHER
Observers in London.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 16s.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to. give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the midiumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given ihspiratu n-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is, Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, IP. (7.
Or of Mrssrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Hontgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of thb Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a prirnd objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion dow rnon-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise1
worthy; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.G.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part. 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “HeavenOpened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughtoh, St. George's-
road.
Price five shillings. Cloth, red edges.
The new hook by
“ M.A. (OXON),” ON
PSYCHO GR APHY,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
synopsis of contents.
List of ’Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psycography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes. •
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
l.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett,, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Yon
Yay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L.O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
Jl.—FrOm the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic: 
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (YYat-
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. WaUace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, AY. Oxley, George AVyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement.of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist. - -
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C-. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
- London: W. H. HARRISON, 38, Great Russell-street.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“O! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxen.”—Thy Love. By Florence Mafryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
AYurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burse—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sei., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon."
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Caider—
Dirge. By Mrs. Erie Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey—
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
AVallace, F.R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6d, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism aiid
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.'i
itr
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO _ PRESENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATU^E-^DEATHr BY NATURAL MEANS.
LORD BEAO.ONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the nealth of the people Is really the foundation
upon whi'clf‘all tKeir/happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see’a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
EISO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLLNG, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use END’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, SicK Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples, on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENG’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. Thdre is little doubt but that the time
•will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENG’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EYERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
T^NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes
J-J “ Since I have used ENG’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
F^NO’S FRUIT SALT.— A Lady writes: —
“ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced tailing it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
JgVNO’S FRUIT SALT,
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS NORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit-is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to" its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise, : • .
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of-being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
END’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus ot itself.one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., eSer
discovered. As a means of preserving and restdffi&g
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. ’ After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C.Eno.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all myjfriends,' both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, Ii.fcel.it a duty to state the above facte, of
which- you can make whatever use you please. —I am
dear sir, yours respectfully, ■ “ W. B. Beckett.”
Aug. SO, 1877.—10, York-square,' Commercial-road, London, E.
/CAUTION.— Examine each Bottle and see the
V Capsule is marked “ END’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
,, Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Scle Agtntfor Paris— 7*HARMACIE DE BERAL, 1 RUE DE
LAPAIX.
■V - . ‘ - .s.
April 5, 18?8.
• ; Just Published, Y.» I, 'MVf* -■
• Trice Seven Shillings and Sixpence,. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
; T H E• L A Z Y|L AYS j
AND- PROSE IM AGIN IN G S,
* ; ’by ■William h. harrison.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence ’Claxton and the
Author.
’Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the .Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac. was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who .visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. ‘‘ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic .Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to .Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother-in-Law.—10. Wiriel-bewegung.—.Vj. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Yision.—22. “Underthe Limes.”—23. The
Angel, of Silence. . '
Part 2.—The WoVblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to he rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobolejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift,’’.
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed.by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
hut one of the most laughable hits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to he photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to he sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.,.. To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and ali
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement.from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn-
! crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A.
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
Fisom The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely hound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-hook elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the uigoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.' It is an admirably addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays"
_ ''' r"\ [ } ()’/ .From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curiona, collection of, verses and prose essays of unequal
merits.., The sei^oils.and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions."
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry, souls who do quiteAs much good in their day and
•generation as the authors of , the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings, and hold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour’; apd one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
-, From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper' a short time ago,
anl iriiich created such a furore at the time.” [N.B.An
ire^e member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,’’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is oound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
AY. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, AY.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke ot Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price;8s. 6d. per volume, post freb.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ing—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—-Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted-Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentialiy the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The' Iiiipressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid's Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric— '
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s JExtatics—Visions of the S ii ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — SnaU Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment, of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc,, explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight;is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Cdyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects— '
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—-Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley's Method — Oases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water ’
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Bussell-street, W.G.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridgb & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood'a Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-abbve-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
