EE0ISTEEBD AS A NEWSPAPER
&N© otf ^^YCSo^oG^idS^ ^di^KCsi..
(Dltaf ^pxrxkalxsm m (&xmi §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule*
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rne de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Floriroont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rsoms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: ‘‘Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal"
Qffice. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 304. (Vol. XII.—No. 25.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JUNE 21, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
©omenta.
Spiritualism and the Churches ... .'   ... 289
Spiritualism Necessary to the Churches. By Eugene
Crowell, M.D    ... 289
Private Seances and Certain Conditions Influencing the
Phenomena. By Charles Blackburn 290
Mrs. Lowe’s Incarceration in a Lunatic Asylum for
Writing Mediumship    ...  291
Zsehokke and Deschamps’ Spiritual Perception 292
Mr. Buskin on “ Honesty ”    293
Emigration    293
PoetryATon Pkre"...    294
Retrospect of the Session of Fortnightly Spiritualistic Dis¬
cussion Meetings, 1877-78. By the Bev. W. Stainton-
Moses, M.A.:—Form Manifestations—Weighing the
Medium—Stigmatisation— Crystallomancy—Psycho-
graphy—Clairvoyance—Speculations—Hints for Next
Session...         ... 294
Clairvoyance  296
Spiritualism in Australia:—Christianity and Spiritualism
—Mrs. Hardinge Britten’s Opening Address to Mel¬
bourne Spiritualists 297
A Haunted House in Dublin  ... ... ... 299
A New Book on Spiritualism. By W. H. Harrison 299
Proof Palpable of Immortality 300
The Passage of Needles Through the Human Body 300
Paragraphs:—The Bishop of Winchester on Scepticism,
291 ; American Spiritualists, 291; The Spirit World,
298; East Biding Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism, 299; Opening of a New Hall for Spirit¬
ualistic Services in Macclesfield...   ... 299
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PBICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rriHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.B.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.B.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Bight Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Bussia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal: Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Bev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Scl, Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Eain.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. O.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.G.E.: Mr. D. H.. Wilson, M.A^, LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Gxley; Miss Kisling,
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Bichardson.'MD. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Bue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Borne: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Bue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Bussell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Booms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Keamey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street,
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. — Yolumes for
1861 and 1862 wanted, unbound if possible. Volumes for
1863,1872, 1873,1874, for disposal.—Stainton-Moses, 38, Great
Russell-street, London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high-class journals,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection ®f the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Bussell-street, W.CM
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
Members of Committees.
By a Resolution of the Council, May 11th, the Members of
all Committees were reappointed to serve as before.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Lou&hborouah-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. Seo.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office days—Tuesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 2 to 4 p.m.
EGLINTON TESTIMONIAL.
Subscriptions for this testimonial may be remitted to any
member of the Committee, to the acting treasurer, Mrs.
Nichols, Aldwyn Tower, Malvern, or to the Hon. Secretary, 32,
Fairfax-road, Finchley-road, London, N.W.
The testimonial will be presented on July 1st at the
Beethoven Booms, Harley-street, Cavendish-square. Tickets
5s. and 2s. 6d. May be had, with programmes, of any member
of the committee, or the honorary secretary.
Now Beady, Price 2s. 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REYIEW.
The Spiritualists’ Quarterly, for April.
CONTENTS:—
Editor’s Address.
I. —Ethics of the New Age.
II. —Experiences of Astrology in India.
III. —Mystical Poetry.
IV. —Modern Materialism.
V.—Dante and Beatrice.
VI.—The Sentiment of Immortality.
VII.—A Seance with Mrs. Marshall.
VIH.—Pilgrimages in France. No. 1.—To Paray-le-Monial.
IX.—Psychography.
X.—Buddhism and Christianity.
XI.—The Miracle Land.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Bussell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W'.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KABDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. TRUBNER & Co., London.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomena], Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.  
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
'—Bivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
SCARCE AND VALUABLE BOOKS.
(Second hand.)
The Spiritual Magazine, Vols I. to XIV. (A.d. 1860 to 1873),
£7 10s.
The Celestial Telegraph (Cahagnet), 12s.
From Matter to Spirit (Mrs. De Morgan), 10s.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTEEMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Booms :—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, E.C,
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, <fcc., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK. — Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.Cj
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
,_1 FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager,
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to tbe skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russeil-street, London.  
Bedroom to let, furnished, with
use of Sitting Room and Piano, with or without Board,
in the home of an old Spiritualist. Three in family. No other
lodgers. Would suit an elderly person, male or female.—
Address T. W., 21, Wingmore-road, White Hart-lane, Tot¬
tenham,
11
THE SPIKITUALIST.
June 21, 1878,
BEITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1878.)
President.
Alex. Calder j Esq., 1, Hereford-sqnare, South Kensington, 8.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. ,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond GL, M.S.Tel.E., 0, Loughborough-road
North, Brlxton, S.W.
Gregory, Sirs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, TVarwick-square, S.\V.
Jencken, Henry D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, O. C„ Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Pinchlev.N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, TV.
Council.
Adshead, TV. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Langley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester-
Bonwick, J., P.R.G.S., Vale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, TV. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.TV.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late ofH.M.S. “Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-iodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, TV.
Dodd,”J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7. Oberstein-road, New TVandsworth, S.TV.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34. Walnut-street, Cneetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Rayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, TV.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.TV.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Bemers-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March. R. A., 14. Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., fi, Richmond-road, Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Rev. W W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitra-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redclifle-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock. St. George, M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J.P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Eonorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
M. de Bassompierre. 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, H, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Storings, Cayuga Co., New Vork, U.S.A.
Comte Le ae Bullet, Hotel aeTAthenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
Lonaon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron. Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgra*ve-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Beigrave-road, S. W.
, Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna,
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers. ,
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., S3, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
:■ Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
-  dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.  
THE BEITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Oustoms. 
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O. 
WORKS BY THE COUNTESS OF CAITHNESS.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
cfc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.8. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de i’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastlano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Oo.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie.Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne,
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr, Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Llndesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wlttig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria,
G. L.DItson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S-A.
J. H. GledstaneSjEsq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OP SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E, W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
  Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney,
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co, 
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened," being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is, The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world I Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Groat Russell-street, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Srighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, Jame3’8-3tre0t; andMr.Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
  Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER^
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
 Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.  
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock, 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N. 
CURATIVE MESMERISM.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER,
(33 years established),
Attends Patients, and may be consulted at his residence daily
from 2 till 5,
10, BERKELEY GARDENS, OAMPDEN HILL, KEN¬
SINGTON.
Private Lessons in the art of Mesmerising. His Pamphlet
on “Curative Mesmerism,” 7th Edition, price Is.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, <Sc., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by tha
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
IVTISS . MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
-LtJL and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suifolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal-
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS.M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II, The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX. Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth;
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.,
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London: 38, Great Russell-street. W. H. Harrison.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
K3 PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISE. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O '
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, U, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.C.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE CHURCHES.
In these days, when the governing and the scientific classes
have no religion and incline strongly to materialism, there
is no doubt that The Christian World did its duty to its
readers by telling them the truth about Spiritualism, thereby
bringing to their knowledge a power which is competent to
put new life into the churches, and to enable them to retain
their ground against those who deny the fact of man’s im¬
mortality. The New York Catholic World displays similar
good sense in the following paragraph:—
<( There is no difficulty in understanding the bitterness
with which modern science regards Spiritualism. That science
had been, for so long a time, carrying everything before it;
it had weighed so many things on earth and in the heavens,
that all idea of the supernatural (spiritual) was fairly
relegated to the obscure past or the obscurer future. The
philosophy of the nineteenth century was being fast reduced
to a mere statement of the contents of sensation; and the
philosophers of the day were looking for an easy victory
over the most respectable of dogmatic traditions, . . . when
lo ! up starts a mass of phenomena, not merely inexplicable
by any known law, but in popular estimation at least, in¬
compatible with any hypothesis but that of supernatural
(spiritual) agency.”
It is worthy of note that the bigotry, intolerance, and
persecution displayed against Spiritualism have, in this
country, come chiefly from reputed men of science and not
from theologians. The Royal Society, and not ecclesiastical
authorities, tabooed Mr. Crookes’ clear record of psychic
facts, and it was a Fellow of the Royal Society who tried to
get a medium shut up in a prison.
SPIRITUALISM NECESSARY TO THE CHURCHES.*
BT EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
Since the invention of the art of printing the world has
been rapidly advancing in true knowledge, and more espe¬
cially has this advance been witnessed within the present
century; andr while all the sciences and all the branches of
human knowledge have teemed with discoveries and inven¬
tions, spiritual knowledge, that which most vitally concerns
us, has until recently not only not advanced, but the pro¬
portion of those who reject all belief in the soul’s continued
existence is greater to-day than at any former period.
If at the time of Christ the world had progressed sufficiently
to enable it to receive and comprehend, to the extent it did,
the doctrines he taught, is it not certain that the world to¬
day is able to comprehend a larger measure of knowledge
relating to man’s spiritual nature and condition, and do we
not find that in every age knowledge has flowed in upon
the minds of men to the full extent of their capacity
for its reception ? Whatever may be said to the contrary, I
contend that the diffusion of knowledge has not tended to
make men less regardful of those questions which relate to
their spiritual life and welfare. The increase of knowledge
has simply compelled them to demand proof of that which
heretofore has been accepted upon faith alone, and to-day
men are just as desirous of learning that which relates to
their future existence as they ever have been, but un¬
fortunately theology is unable to furnish the evidence
required, &nd millions of earnest minds stand aloof, waiting
and hoping that with the showers of knowledge now descend¬
ing upon the world, that a few drops at least may crystallize
into satisfactory evidence which will settle this long-vexed
question. This is the attitude of many, and this is the
reason why they occupy the position they do to-day; and
amid all this influx of knowledge, are they alone to meet
with disappointment — to have their earnest desires un-
* From Dr. Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
gratified ? I do not think this, neither do I think I err
when I affirm that Modern Spiritualism has been sent to
furnish this evidence, and that elsewhere it does not exist;
and further, if Spiritualism fail to make good its pretensions
in this respect, then it is a delusion and a snare, and even
worse, it is a huge deception. Either it is all we claim, or
it is unworthy any man’s attention, and we urge it upon the
attention of all with the understanding that it shall furnish
proofs of its claims, as well substantiated as those which lie
at the basis of all true philosophy, or in the event of failure
we will acknowledge error and defeat.
The ancient Hebrews, through whom came the books of
the Old Testament, believed in and practised spirit com¬
munion. Jesus, with His desciples, through whom came
the truths of the New Testament, believed in and taught it.
The early Christians believed in it, and their successors in
the Catholic Church believed in it, and believe in it now.
The Church of England affirms belief in the communion of
saints. Calvin, Luther, and Wesley, the founders of the
most important of the Protestant sects, with Knox, believed
in it, and their immediate followers all, or nearly all, had
faith in it. The Quakers, Swedenborgians, Moravians,
Shakers, and in fact all Christian sects originally believed in
it, and some believe in it to-day.
Thus the testimony of the Christian fathers, and those
who preceded them, to the truth of spiritual intercourse, has
been perpetuated in an unbroken line from their times to the
present; and while their opinions as to what they believed
are authoritatively referred to and quoted by modern
Christians, their evidence as to what they had seen, or other¬
wise known, and upon which knowledge perhaps these very
opinions were founded, is rejected as delusion and super¬
stition.
Was the faith of all these in this element of religious
belief an error ? If so, what is left for their successors in
the Church which may not be swept away to-morrow? They
reject all that is vital and satisfying in that belief, and we
cannot think it strange that so many should be dwarfed and
cramped in their spiritual natures.
It is often declared that the volume of revelation was long
since closed. It is admitted that revelation was once an open
volume. By what authority is it now sealed ? It is certain
i that Jesus Himself said nothing to countenance this opinion,
i and we have no evidence that any of His disciples did, if we
| except John, and as to him, the only passages which have
been cited as authority for this belief are the eighteenth and
j nineteenth verses of the last chapter of Revelation, written
1 by him, and these bear internal evidence that the curse there
I pronounced was simply against anyone who should add to or
| subtract from the words of that particular book, the inten-
| tion plainly being to prevent any mutilation of, or tampering
| with, what is there written; and what should establish this
| view beyond question is, that at least one other book—the
! Gospel of John—-is generally acknowledged to have been
] written subsequently to the book of Revelation, while at
i least one of his epistles is supposed to have been.
The prophets and the apostles were endowed with heavenly
| gifts, but I presume no one will contend that the spirits or
j angels who manifested through them 'were also endowed
| with any special gifts above those which good angels now
| generally possess. If this be correct, it is only necessary
j for spirits to possess the powers they then possessed, and for
i certain individuals in earth-life to be similarly organised
| and endowed with the gifts which the prophets and apostles
| then exercised, for spirit manifestations to 'be as much of a
| reality to-day as they were then.
That many persons now living have these endowments, I
j believe to be as susceptible of proof as any other fact of
I common occurrence, and this is in perfect accordance with
% ^ xtf % jtffttff mb jlpitjitolbiu.
Volume Twelve. Number Twenty-five.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 21st, 1878.
290
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 21, 1878.
what Christ Himself taught, when He promised similar gifts
to all that believed. We simply contend for the fulfilment
of this promise, and it is passing strange that the great
body of the Protestant successors of His apostles—the clergy
—should be found arrayed against the validity of the
promise, while we, the unorthodox, should be united in pro¬
claiming its fulfilment, literally battling on the side of the
fathers of the Christian religion, while the professed de¬
fenders of its doctrines are hurling their shafts against us
both. We are in the apostolic camp, armed with, evidence
and proof, and using these weapons to defend and vindicate
apostolic rights, and every day our forces are augmenting,
our position is being strengthened, and our means of dis¬
seminating the truths which are committed to our keeping
are extending.
It is repudiation of their most sacred things for theo¬
logians to reject spirit intervention, in the face of the fact
that the very inauguration of Christ’s appearance on earth
was through the announcement by an angel to Mary:
u Hail! thou art highly favoured: the Lord is with thee.”
If an angel announced His first coming, the promise of
His second coming is fulfilled in modern Spiritualism—
coming with legions of angels, or spirits, as He promised to
come. When He first came unto His own, His own received
Him not; and now, upon His second coming, the Church
rejects Him as it did then; and now, as then, He turns to
publicans and sinners, who receive Him gladly.
It is equally inconsistent for them to deny, as many do,
the verity of the appearance of Samuel to Saul through the
mediumship of the woman of Endor. Within the lids of
the Bible there is no stronger evidence of a life hereafter than
that founded upon this apparition, and it is strange that
theologians do not perceive the disadvantage at which they
place themselves by the doubts they cast upon this narration.
The first in order of the books of the Bible, Genesis,
abounds with narratives of spirit intervention, and of the
last of these books, Revelation, it is declared by John, to
whom it was given, that he received it through the agency
of angels, or spirits. If the reader will accompany me in a
brief review of some of the passages in this book which cast
light upon this question, I think he will endorse the above
remarks.
In the first verse of first chapter it is declared to be “ the
revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto Him (Jesus)
to show unto His servants things which must shortly come
to pass; and He (Jesus) sent and signified it by His angel (or
spirit) unto His servant John.”
The words included in parentheses are mine. Here it is
declared that God gave this revelation to the ascended Jesus,
and that He (Jesus) sent and signified, or communicated, it
ly His angel (or spirit) unto His servant John. This passage,
at the very outset, places it beyond dispute that, so far from
the revelation being direct by God to John, it was not even
made directly by the spirit of Jesus, but by another spirit,
authorised by Him to give it.
In the succeeding verse it is said that John 11 bare record
of the Word of God, and of the testimony of Jesus Christ,
and of all things that He saw”
Here, notwithstanding John only communicated with an
angel (or spirit), he declares the revelation to be “ the Word
of God.” I leave it for others to decide how he could pos¬
sibly have known this to be the case, as the only evidence
he had was the declaration of the angel (or spirit). And as
we proceed it will be seen that all that was told John by an
angel (or spirit), and all otherwise said, and not directly
addressed to him, was said by spirits.
Mr. E. W. Wallis, ;trance medium, writes from Belper, June 17th:—
“I return to town on June 20th, and shall be glad to receive calls to
attend private stances or deliver public or semi-public addresses in
London until July 12th, when I again leave for the provinces. I am
engaged to speak at Ladbrooke Hall on Sunday next, in the morning at
11, evening at 7 ; subjects to be chosen by the audiences.
It is understood that the Postal Congress held the other day at Paris
has agreed on an amended treaty to come in force on the 1st of April
next, by which the limit of weight of books, to be carried by the
Postal Union Mails, is raised from 2lbs. to 41bs. Nothing appears to
have been agreed upon that will hamper the free delivery by post, in
America, of English books. This will probably lead, sooner or later,
to the abolition of the duty levied by the United States on books.—
Athencpuw}'
i PRIVATE SEANCES AND CERTAIN CONDITIONS
INFLUENCING THE PHENOMENA.
j ,, BY CHARLES BLACKBURN.
It may intere&t your readers to know some recent ex-
| periences with Miss Kate S. Cook at my house, therefore
| away from her own home.
For many years past the Davenport Brothers have been
I considered by nine-tenths of inexperienced society as im-
| posters, which I never yet could admit; so to make certain
| that all mediums having the same kind of power were not
| tricksters, I engaged Miss Florrie Cook five years ago as a
| private medium, and submitted her seances first to the charge
I of Mr. W. H. Harrison, next to Mr. Luxmoore, and finally to
Mr. Wm. Crookes, F.R.S., for test scrutiny, and they each
have asserted over and over again that her powers at dark
seances were absolutely genuine, although of the same
character as the Davenports. The same persons have also
testified to the genuineness of her materialisation “ Katie
King” stances, so long notorious. Since that time, however,
she was married to Captain Corner, and went and returned
from abroad. But her sister, Katie S. Cook, at seventeen
became a strong medium, and to shield her from that harm
and abuse which public mediums are liable to, I arranged
terms for further investigations by myself and friends, by
trying to develope her powers under the guidance of Signor
Rondi, an experienced man in London, to see if u Spiritism”
is, or is not, £f a great scientific truth,” and nothing what¬
ever to do with theology.
Since Miss Katie S. Cook has been here, say a fortnight,
myself and friends have had a few sittings of very favourable
character, but I have no authority to state names. Upon
evenings when no visitors called, myself and daughter and
Miss Cook have sat in the dark in the library round a small
table, when suddenly the musical box has been wound up by
a rough hand, the table jumping up and floating for several
minutes, say, nine or ten inches, off all four legs, and we
three all fast holding each other’s hands, and standing up ;
then the intelligent force went and played several airs on
the piano at the medium!s bach, whilst myself and daughter
held her; then took a small bell high up in the air ringing
around the room, also a tin musical box. Next, tapes and
string were used by warm, rough hands, which tied us
together round our necks, and nearly choked us. We three
never let go our hands from the first; the spirit “ Lilian ”
kept talking to us nearly all the time, and said that her
“ helps” did most of it, and she guided them.
Now, let me ask all scientific men, why if the above be
true (and plenty here can verify the same from similar experi¬
ences), why are they afraid of investigating these facts ? I
have no assistants or mechanism, nor has the medium ;
therefore, I ask, Whence this force, and what is it ?
My friend Mr. B., of Eccles, enjoyed a materialisation
stance a few evenings ago; he went into the cabinet with
the medium, and held her until a form in pure white rose
up and spoke to him in the identical voice, in twilight, which
has always spoken to him at1 ‘dark stances;” the medium’s
dress was worsted, and the spirit-form’s dress was white
calico, both of which he at the same time handled and saw,
whilst the medium was conscious, and not in the trance
state.
The medium tells me that dark seances affect her after¬
wards with headache only, but after materialisations it takes
long to recuperate her, as her very life seems ((to flow out
of her,” also her memory and other powers; but she takes
no part in them by her will; she merely sits passively in her
chair whilst the- spirit comes, and talks, and forms itself; it
can vanish instantly, and comes nearly as quickly. In dark
stances, Miss Cook says that when spirit hands touch the
sitters she frequently knows it, owing to a slight electrical¬
like shock; and if a positive sceptic or disagreeable person
is touched, the shock is much stronger., <( Materialisations ”
being of a far higher character than dark stances, cause the
medium to feel drowsy and grow thin, and the form pro¬
duced has difficulty in solidifying, especially if thunder is
about, or an uncongenial atmosphere exists, especially when
she is in a conscious state ; but if in deep trance, she becomes
much thinner, and the form becomes quite solid. Still, all the
white raiment, with the form, vanishes in a moment, and the
June 21, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
291
form, just before vanishing, calls us to come and see her
medium, who is found in trance, with earrings, necktie,
dress, &c., just as at first when placed in her chair.
I give free sittings to my friends, nor is the medium
allowed to receive one farthing; and I have no interest what¬
ever, except in investigating a new and great fact. I merely
write this, showing my present advancement of knowledge
on this subject. The weighing apparatus will be ready shortly
for the British National Association of Spiritualists.
Par.kfield, Didsbury, near Manchester, 16th Jnne, 1878.
MRS. LOWE’S INCARCERATION IN A LUNATIC ASYLUM
FOR WRITING MEDIUMSHIP.
(From The Truthteeker, June 1st, 1878.)
In order to justify my detention, it was necessary to take
my belief out of the pure spiritualistic sphere and bring it
into that of Theomania, or irrational belief in exceptional
union with or absorption in Deity. That this was done to
the satisfaction of the Parliamentary Committee may be
inferred from their subsequent treatment of me; though
whether they gave equal consideration to the rebutting
evidence is open to doubt. That rebutting evidence was as
follows. It had been in the hands of every member of the
Committee for some weeks previous to the hearing of the
medical witnesses against me.
“ To the Commissioners in Lunacy. The Lawn, Hanwell, June 13th,
1871. Gentlemen, ... As to my belief that some unknown motive
power is occasionally brought to bear on material objects by intelligence
or intelligences extraneous to man, I share it with thousands in all
countries. Certainly an indiscriminate compliance with all commands so
given would be insanity, but I deny having ever complied with any that
were not wise or perfectly trivial, and submit that you have neither sought
nor obtained one particle of proof to the contrary”
Ibid. “ The Lawn, Hanwell, Sept. 28th, 1871. Gentlemen, as you
have my medial writings for inspection, I think it fair to express
unequivocally my conviction that no so-called spirit writings have any
weight or value as such, any more than human communications. You
will observe that my addresses are to the Great Father of all, and may
therefore gather that I consider the replies as certainly divine. I do
not; 1 simply consider that all spirits are God’s subjects, and flee to
Him for protection, as I would complain to an earthly master of the
misconduct of his servants. I emphatically deny that I ever but once
acted on medial communications to the possible detriment of any one,
and that I bitterly regretted at the time, as my diary would show. In
matters only concerning my personal comfort, I felt at liberty to experi¬
mentalise concerning the truth of statements within reasonable limits.
. . . Granted the reality of medial writing, I do not see how I am
responsible for what is written. Had I been unmolested, all bad pages
would have been destroyed.”
About this time, steps were being taken for an inquisition,
and though of course I preferred that to incarceration, and
urged it on, I was extremely anxious, on account of my
children, to induce the Commissioners to release me at once,
and so prevent publicity. I therefore, on the 6th of October,
1871, proffered the expenses of a travelling commission, if
they would send one, to collect evidence of my sanity in the
places I had last dwelt in before capture, which offer was
met by ‘‘silent contempt.” Therefore, on the 27th of
October, 1871, I wrote to the Commissioners as follows:—
“ Gentlemen, ... I assume that your non-acceptance of my offer of
the 6th inst. is an admission you are satisfied my actions are and have
been sane, and conclude you still condemn me on the ground that so-
called mediumship is a chimera, an insane delusion. I, on the contrary,
assert that it is a reality, and maintain that a careful inspection of all
the books abstracted from my desk will prove it to be such. I believe
those manuscripts are now at Dr. Maudsley’s, 9, Hanover-square. They
consist of dialogues in various hands, one of which I assert to be mine,
and expressive of my thoughts; the others produced by extraneous
intelligence or intelligences, using my hand through what some call the
psychic force, to express their thoughts. Of the nature of this intelli¬
gence I say nothing, for I know nothing; nor does its quality at all
affect its reality, which is all that concerns the Board. I petition that
these books, after being shown me for identification, may be submitted
to two umpires, one chosen by the Board, and another, a Spiritualist,
chosen by me, who shall decide whether their origin is what I assert,
or a fraudulent forgery—the only other alternative. For such forgery,
it must be borne in mind, there was no conceivable motive; and I have
already endured for thirteen months the most horrible moral torture
that can be inflicted on a rational and cultivated woman rather than
acknowledge it to be such. It would, of course, also be right to
ascertain my character and principles through life by application to
referees.” *
* It is not contended that in passive writing there is no trace of the medium’s normal
caligraphy, hut that ini some cases, and notably in mine, there are modifications which must
either.be caused in the manner here stated, that is, by extraneous influence on the medium’s
hand, or be designedly made by him. On the latter supposition, arguments derived from
character should; of course, have great weight. As the Commissioners did not accede to
11 Such, were my views on this important subject as expressed
j throughout my incarceration; and lest the reader suspect
j them of being got up for the nonce, I will add an extract
(j from the introduction to a Passive Writing dialogue written
) | and published long after release, and put in evidence before
11 the Select Committee on Lunacy Law on the 17th May, 1877.
) i In giving the following pages to the world, the writer desires again to
(i repudiate all claim to what is called “ Divine Inspiration,” or to any
> | communication with the Saviour of mankind otherwise “ direct ” than
) | is obtainable by all the sons of men, and is distinctly claimed by our
(| church in her Litany and other formularies. That, through some atmos-
) i pheric change or modification of man’s temperament, that intercom-
) | munion with ethereal races which, according to Christian dogma, has
(i always existed, is now become of daily and most geheral occurrence,
) i appears to the writer the only material superficial innovation made by
) | modern Spiritualism on received, opinion. It is impossible to look
(! around and not see that the old faiths are dying out; man has outgrown
)! his Bible. Far from the writer be the pretension or desire to inaugurate
) j a new one. Among all the doctrines taught her, she has accepted none
(j more heartily than that revelation to man can only be relatively not
) I absolutely divine or true, and that for a pigmy race like ours to imagine
\! itself, even at its best, capable of entering into intellectual sympathetic
\! union with that from which sprung the stupendous universe, is the very
) j acme of folly and arrogance 1 *
I Should the charge of Theomania still seem unrefuted, I can
| only beg my readers to believe that, if I knew how to disclaim
j the impeachment more strongly, I would gladly do so.
i And now for the evidence on the other side. We had
first a few extracts from the private note books of doctors
I who said that they had copied them from mine; then we
i had a few disjointed sentences from dialogues, to be deemed
I mediumistic or purely imaginary at will, said to have been
| written by me, but of which there was no proof that I had
j ever even seen them, and of the obtaining of which one
| witness at least gave an untrue account. Then there were
11 quotations from memory of conversations six or seven years
) | old, and, worst of all, horribile dictu ! there was actually strong
II presumption that I had, at Passive Writing’s bidding, per¬
formed sundry perfectly trivial and legitimate acts, as, for
instance, moving a banker’s balance from a place I had left
to another I was going to ! With any more serious charges
than these, accusing me of attacking characters which it is
) alike my duty and my desire to respect, I do not deign to
i deal, for I have already denied them in my affidavit, and till
i convicted of perjury I claim absolute credence.
|) j The Bishop of Winchester on Scepticism.—Dr. Harold Browne,
! 11 in his visitation charge to the clergy and laity of the Southampton
1 (| Deanery, pointed out that the scepticism so prevalent among the upper
I j! classes had now permeated to the lower, and presented to his hearers a
| (| gigantic enemy. He dwelt at length on the teachings of sceptical
hi criticism, and said that neither that, nor science, nor philosophy, could
1) i rob Christians of the historical evidence of the truth of their faith. If
II the sons of the English Church would but act up to her principles, and
I) i not endanger her existence by internal dissensions, they might, like the
j) j early Christians, defy the world.
j | American Spiritualists. —Mr. Epes Sargent writes from Boston,
) | June 3rd:—Mrs. Louisa Andrews, of Springfield, Mass., who leaves to-
j i morrow for England with her son and sister, has been known these
j | many years as an earnest and discreet investigator into the phenomena
11 of Spiritualism, and has written on the subject with much ability,
s I clearness, and good taste. Her articles in the London Spiritual Maga-
) | zine some ten years ago on the Slade manifestations, entitle her to re-
) | cognition as one of the best writers in our ranks. Lancelot Andrews,
i (| who accompanies his mother, graduated recently at Yale College with
|)! the highest honours of his class in all scientific studies. He is an
) | accomplished chemist. It may not be amiss to add that he is a lineal
| (| descendant of that Lancelot Andrews (born 1565 ; died 1626) who was
i) bishop of Chichester, Ely, and Winchester, and one of the authors of
I)! the common translation of the Bible, the same whom Milton celebrated
j j in one of his Latin elegies, bewailing his death in language of the most
II impassioned regret and admiration. Mrs. Andrews will, we hope, send
I i us for publication accurate accounts of the present state of Spiritualism
j | in England, and I hope that English Spiritualists will supply her with
j I all the information they think may be useful. Her address for some
(j time will be, “ To the care of Miss C. Barnard, 6, York-road, Western-
II road, Brighton, England.” She ought to be there about the 17th of
|! June instant. Her sister, Miss Emily G. Jones, is also a studious
11 Spiritualist, a thinker, and a writer of marked ability. They expect to
(| make considerable stay in England—long enough, at least, for Mr.
j I, Andrews to complete his studies in Germany.
) I my proposal, and allow me to identify the MSS. Dr. Maudesley professed to have in 1871,1
) I cannot, of course, tell whether any of those produced to the Committee in 1877 were mine
) j or not. I can only assertion the alleged donor’s own authority, that he had never even
) | seen what it is alleged he gave to the doctors. But, in addition to the want of evidence
) i concerning the MSS. quoted by Dr. Maudesley, the idea of a gentleman and a father giving
j j such papers up is so. preposterous that one cannot but be astounded at members of the.
) j House of Commons swallowing such a statement.
1 i * How an Old IVoman obtained Passive Writing, and the Outcome Thereof, page d
292
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 21, 1878.
ZSCHOKKE AND DESCHAMPS’ SPIRITUAL PERCEPTION.* |
(Translated by Eyes Sargent.)
Heinrich Zschokke, the celebrated German writer,
instinctively a Spiritualist from his youth up, was well
acquainted with the phenomena of rhabdomancy (divination
by a rod or wand), which, he says, presented him with a new
phase of nature, and which was, moreover, of considerable
use to him in his mining operations. From personal ex¬
perience, he believed in spiritual impressions and presenti¬
ments, especially as conveyed in dreams. But this most
remarkable faculty was what he describes as a singular kind j
of prophetic gift he called his inward sight, but which was j
always an enigma to him. The following is his detailed i
account of it:—
“ It is well known that the judgment we not seldom form j
at the first glance of persons hitherto unknown, is more |
correct than that which is the result of longer acquaintance. |
The first impression, that through some instinct of the soul |
attracts or repels us with strangers, is afterwards weakened j
or destroyed by custom, or by different appearances. We |
speak in such cases of sympathies or antipathies, and per- I
ceive these effects frequently among children, to whom j
experience in human character is wholly wanting. Others j
are incredulous on this point, and have recourse rather to the j
art of physiognomy. Now, for my own case: It has happened j
to me sometimes on my first meeting with strangers, as I |
listened silently to their discourse, that their former life, j
with many trifling circumstances therewith connected, or !
frequently some particular scene in that life, has passed j
quite involuntarily, and, as it were, dream-like, yet perfectly j
distinct before me. During this time, I usually feel so |
entirely absorbed in the contemplation of the stranger life,
that at last I no longer see clearly the face of the unknown,
wherein I undesignedly read, nor distinctly hear the voices
of the speakers, which before served in some measure as a j
commentary to the text of their features.
“ For a long time I held such visions as delusions of the j
fancy, and the more so, as they showed me even the dress and j
motions of the actors, rooms, furniture, and other accessories. !
By way of jest, I once in a familiar family circle at Kirch- j
berg related the secret history of a seamstress who had j
just left the room and the house. I had never seen her j
before in my life: people were astonished and laughed, but I
were not to be persuaded that I did not previously know the j
relations of which I spoke; for what I had uttered was the
literal truth. I, on my part, was no less astonished that j
my dream-pictures were confirmed by the reality. I became j
more attentive to the subject, and, when propriety admitted i
it, I would relate to those whose life thus passed before me |
the subject of my vision, that I might thereby obtain con- j
firmation or refutation of it. It was invariably ratified, not j
without consternation on their part. f What demon inspires j
you ? Must I again believe in possession ? ’ exclaimed the I
spirituel Johann von Riga, when, in the first hour of our |
acquaintance, I related his past life to him, with the avowed j
object of learning whether or no I deceived myself. We |
speculated long on the enigma, but even his penetration |
could not solve it. I myself had less confidence than any i
one in this mental jugglery. So often as I revealed my j
visionary gifts to any new person, I regularly expected to i
hear the answer, ‘ It was not so.’ I felt a secret shudder !
when my auditors replied that it was true, or when their j
astonishment betrayed my accuracy before they spoke, j
Instead of many, I will mention one example, which pre¬
eminently astounded me.
“ One fair day in the city of Waldshut, I entered an inn |
(the Yine) in company with two young student-foresters ; j
we were tired with rambling through the woods. We supped
with a numerous society at the table d'hote, where the guests j
were making very merry with the peculiarities and eccen- j
tricities of the Swiss, with Mesmer’s psychology, Lavater’s ji
physiognomy, &c. One of my companions, whose national IJ
pride was wounded by their mockery, begged me to make M
some reply, particularly to a handsome young man who sat j!
opposite us, and who had allowed himself extraordinary jj
license. This man’s former life was at that moment pre- I
sented to my mind. I turned to him and asked whether he
would answer me candidly if I related to him some of the
| most secret passages of his life, I knowing as little of him
personally^ as he did of me ? That would be going a little
further, I thought, than Lavater did with his physiognomy.
He promised, if I were correct in my information, to admit
it frankly. I then related what my vision had shown me,
and the whole company were made acquainted with the
private history of the young merchant; his school years, his
youthful errors, and, lastly, with a fault committed in
reference to the strong box of his principal. I described to
him the uninhabited room with whitened walls, where,
to the right of the brown door, on a table, stood a black
| money-box, &c. A dead silence prevailed during the whole
narration, which I alone occasionally interrupted by inquiring
> whether I spoke the truth. The startled young man con-
i firmed every particular, and even, what I had scarcely
I expected, the last mentioned. Touched by his candour, I
shook hands with him over the table, and said no more. He
asked my name, which I gave him, and we remained together
talking till past midnight. He is probably living still!
u I can well explain to myself how a person of lively
imagination may form, as in a romance, a correct picture of
| the actions and passions of another person, of a certain
| character, under certain circumstances. But whence came
I those trifling accessories which nowise concern me, and in
| relation to people for the most part indifferent to me, with
whom I neither had, nor desired to have, any connection ?
! Or, was the whole matter a constantly recurring accident ?
| Or, had my auditor, perhaps, when I related the particulars
of his former life, very different views to give of the whole,
| although in his first surprise, and misled by some re¬
semblances, he had mistaken them for the same ? And yet,
| impelled by this very doubt, I had several times given myself
trouble to speak of the most insignificant things which my
waking dream had revealed to me. I shall not say another
word an this singular gift of vision, of which I cannot say
it was ever of the slightest service; it manifested itself
rarely, quite independently of my will, and several times in
reference to persons whom I cared little to look through.
Neither am I the only person in possession of this power.
On an excursion I once made with two of my sons, I met
| with an old Tyrolese, who carried oranges and lemons about
I the country, in a house of public entertainment, in Lower
| Hanenstein, one of the passes of the Jura. He fixed his
i eyes on me for some time, then mingled in the conversation,
I and said that he knew me, although he knew me not, and
! went to relate what I had done and striven to do in former
time, to the consternation of the country people present, and
the great admiration of my children, who were diverted to
find another person gifted like their father. How the old
lemon merchant came by his knowledge, he could not
explain either to me or to himself; he seemed, never¬
theless, to value himself somewhat upon his mysterious
wisdom.”
Emile Deschamps communicates to Le Monde Musical, of
Brussels (1868), the following account of his own experience
in psychometry: “ If a man believed only what he could
comprehend, he would believe neither in God, in himself, in
the stars which roll above his head, nor in the herbage which
is crushed beneath his feet. . . .
“In the month of February, 1846, I travelled in France.
I arrived in a rich and great city, and I took a walk in front
of the beautiful shops which abound in it. The rain began
to fall; I entered an elegant gallery. All at once I stood
motionless ; I could not withdraw my eyes from the figure
of a lovely young woman, who was all alone behind an
array of articles of ornament for sale. This young woman
was very handsome; but it was not at all her beauty which
enchained me. I know not what mysterious interest, what
inexplicable bond held and mastered my whole being. It
was a sympathy subtle and profound, free from any sensual
alloy, but of irresistible force, as the unknown is in all
things. I was pushed forward into the shop by a super¬
natural power. I purchased several little things, and, as I
paid for them, said, ‘ Thank you, Mademoiselle Sara.’ The
young girl looked at me with an air of surprise. 4 It
astonishes you,’ I continued, ‘ that a stranger knows your
name, and one of your baptismal names; but, if you will
think for a moment of all your names, I will repeat them all
* Extracted from Planchette, by Epes Sargent, Trubner and Co., 1869,
June 21, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
293
to you. Do you think of them ? ’ jf, Yes, Monsieur,’ she
replied, half smiling, and half trembling. * Yery well,’ 1
added, looking fixedly in her face, ‘you are called Sara
Adele Benjamine N .’ ‘It is true,’ she replied; and
after some minutes of surprise she began all at once to
laugh ; and I saw that she thought that I had obtained this
information in the neighbourhood, in order to amuse myself
with it. But I knew very well that I had not till this
moment known a word of it, and I was terrified at my own
instantaneous divination.
“ The next and the next day I hastened to the handsome
shop; my divination was renewed at every instant. I
begged of Sara to think of something without letting me
know what it was ; and, immediately, I read on her counte¬
nance her thought not yet expressed. I requested her to
write with a pencil some words, which she should keep care¬
fully concealed from me; and, after having looked at her
for a minute, I, on my part, wrote down the same words in
the same order. I had her thoughts as in an open book,
but she could not in the slightest degree read mine, such
was my superiority; but, at the same time, she imposed on
me her ideas and her emotions. Let her think seriously on
any subject, or let her repeat in her own mind the words of
any writing, and instantly I was aware of the whole. The
mystery lay betwixt her brain and mine, not betwixt my
faculties of intuition and things material. Whatever it
might be, there existed a rapport between us as intimate
as it was pure.
“ One night I heard in my ear a loud voice crying to me,
‘ Sara is very ill, very ill! ’ I hastened to her : a medical
man was watching over her and expecting a crisis. That
evening Sara had entered her lodgings in a burning fever;
she continued in delirium all night. The doctor took me
aside, and told me that he feared the worst result. From
that apartment I saw the countenance of Sara clearly, and,
my intuition rising above my distress, I said, in a low voice,
‘ Doctor, do you know with what images her fevered sleep is
occupied ? She believes that she is at this moment at the
grand opera at Paris, where she indeed has never been, and
a danseuse gathers, amongst other buds, some hemlock, and,
throwing it to her, cries, ‘That is for you.'*
“ The physician thought I was delirious too; but some
minutes afterwards the patient awoke heavily, and her first
words were, ‘ Oh ! how beautiful is the opera ! but why did
that handsome girl throw to me that hemlock ? ’ The
doctor was stupefied with astonishment. A medicine con¬
taining hemlock was administered, and in some days Sara
was well.”
MR, RUSKIN ON “HONESTY.”
Or “ making and selling bad goods,’’ Mr. Ruskin says : —
“ No form of theft is so criminal as this, none so deadly to the state.
If you break into a man’s house, and steal a hundred pounds’ worth of
plate, he knows his loss, and there is an end; besides that, you take
your risk of punishment for your gain like a man. And if you do it
bravely and openly, and habitually live by such inroad, you may retain
nearly every moral and manly virtue, and become a heroic rider, and
reiver, and hero of song. But if you swindle me out of twenty
shillings’ worth ot quality on each of a hundred bargains, I lose my
hundred pounds, and get a hundred untrustworthy articles besides—
which will fail me when I least expect it, perhaps at my utmost need ;
and you, having done your thieving basely, are corrupted by the guilt
of it to the very heart’s core.
“ This is the first thing, therefore, which your general laws must be
set to punish, fiercely, unmitigably—to the utter prevention and ex¬
tinction of—or there is no hope for you. No religion that ever was
preached on this earth of God’s rounding, ever proclaimed any salva-
tibn to sellers of bad goods. If the ghost that is in you, whatever the
essence of it, leaves your hand a juggler’s and your heart a cheat’s, it
is not a Holy Ghost—he assured of that. And for the rest, all
political economy, as well as every higher virtue, depends first on sound
work.’’
In like manner, and stating the eternal distinction between right and
wrong—
“ It becomes, therefore, for me, and for all who believe anything I
say, a great primal question on what this presumably attainable honesty
is to be based.
“ ‘ Is it to be based on religion ? ’ you may ask. c Are we to be
honest for fear of losing heaven if we are dishonest, or (to put it as
generously as we may) for fear of displeasing God ? Or, are we to be
honest on speculation, because honesty is the best policy; and to invest
in virtue as in an undepreciable stock 1 ’
“ And my answer is—not in any hesitating or diffident way (and you
know, my friend, that whatever people may say of me, I often do
speak diffidently; though, when I am diffident of things, I try to
avoid them, if it may be ; but here 1 say with no shadow of doubt)—
. | your honesty is not to be based either on religion or policy. Both your
j | j religion and policy must be based on it. Your honesty must be based,
j 1 as the sun is, in vacant heaven ; poised, as the lights in the firmament,
|) | which have rule over the day and over the night. If you ask why you
Hi are to be honest—you are, in the question itself, dishonoured,
j (I ‘ Because you are a man,’ is the only answer ; and therefore I said in
!! i a former letter that to make your children capable of honesty is the
i 11 beginning of education. Make them men first, and religious men after-
! (| wards, and all will be sound; but a knave’s religion is always the
i [ | rottenest thing about him.”
| | EMIGRATION.
The following is the beginning of an article in Social Notes, by Sir
i j Julius Vogel, on emigration to the colonies in general, and New Zealand,
| (| in particular. Those Spiritualists who sometimes write to this journal
| /1 on the subject of emigration would do well to give attention to the
j I whole article
I To properly understand the position of an English colony, it must
|} i be remembered that it offers most of the advantages with few of
| (! the disadvantages of an old established country. "With the machinery
i|| of government and possession of laws carefully modelled after those of
| ( the parent country, it does not possess the national debt arising from
j I expensive wars, and it is not burthened with the support of a large
! | section of the population whose unhappy heritage is crime and poverty.
|) To some extent every country must have such a heritage. It is not
| ( contended that in course of time the colonies will be without it, but we
| are dealing with the present and the coming generation; and, besides,
| the point of departure for such a heritage is not the dark ages, but
j I an age in which the discoveries of science and the general spread of
II education will do much to retard the progress of the melancholy fact
\ i that side by side with progress and prosperity there must be a propor-
| j tion of adversity and crime. Excepting in rare instances, where some
|! money has been expended in troubles connected with native races, the
h public debts of colonies represent expenditure on useful works, the
(j results of which remain for the benefit of those who pay the interest.
) i These public debts are not comparable with the English national debt;
II their counterparts are much more nearly to be found in the debts of
(| local trustees for public works of utility and in the capital of railway
| i and water companies. The laws in force in the colonies are, as has
11 been said, modelled on those of this country. In many cases they are
j improvements, because they have not been burdened with the diffi-
■ ] culty of disposing of the claims of vested interests which more or less
j 11 interfere with the amendment of any law, however unjust or obsolete
(I it may be. There has in this country of necessity grown up a large
j | i amount of personal government, arising from the imperfectly educated
| (| condition of a considerable portion of the community. Hence, not-
! i withstanding all the theories of representative and free institutions,
III there is a great deal of irresponsible government by nominees in
! I matters which most nearly affect the daily wants and domestic con-
| | cerns of the people. But in the colonies the institutions are free and
| i representation a reality, not a mere name. The machinery of local
| (| government is far in advance of anything that has been effected in the
111 United Kingdom. The acquirement of land is not hedged round with
j | i difficulties. A piece of land may be disposed of and transferred as
! (| readily as a share in a joint-stock company. Criminal prosecutions
II j are not made the instruments for recovering civil claims. Here, where
| /1 prosecutions are privately conducted, they are frequently initiated,
| | and more frequently still threatened, to bring a pressure to bear in
! 11 the recovery of a private debt. In the colonies criminal prosecutions
] (| are conducted by public prosecutors, and there is an absence of that
| (] shameful system of prostituting the power of the law which unhappily
j j i is so often to be observed in England. The means of education are
| I open to all, and the humblest member of the community may rise by
| | his own ability to high position. As a matter of course, in sparingly
11 peopled countries labour takes much higher rank in relation to capital
(1 than it possibly can do in countries where the population is excessive,
i ! Hence there are rarely struggles between capital and labour, and when
| j i they do occur they are easily adjusted. Although, as must be the case
m in any community, there are persons always ready to constitute cliques,
III and to claim for themselves the rights of caste and social position,
111 there is little disposition to bow down before any idol which is not
supported by personal merit. A clique may be happy in its own im-
i i penetrable reserve. But those outside of it are not unhappy because
I / of their exclusion, nor on account of that exclusion do they suffer any
| j • material Joss. The cost of living in the colonies is less than at home.
111 There is not so eager a disposition for display, and, in short, the same
m amount of comfort may be attained for a less sum. On the other
| j | hand, labour is more highly compensated, and capital is more largely
! 11 remunerated. The farm labourer who has good stuff in him may be
j/j certain that if he is industrious and frugal he may arrive at the
i (! position of having a farm of his own. The capitalist who can procure
111 money at English rates may be assured of large profits in the increased
!) | interest he can obtain in the colonies. The security is at the least
| (i equal, and many think better.
I | And the latter view may be supported on logical grounds. A
| ! country which enjoys only a fraction of the population it is capable of
j (! supporting and destined to possess, must find its lands enhanced in
j > | value as its population increases. It would be rash to assert that the
! (! maintenance of the value of property, to say nothing of its increase,
f) j in countries fully peopled, depends on so secure a basis.
294
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 21, 1878.
‘“MON FERE.”
Given by Spirit influence through the -hand of a young lady aged thirteen.
I cannot rest to-night! I know thou’rt near ;—
Tho’ thou art gone, I feel thee by my side.
Death could not rob me of thy love, and thou
Art yet, as erst, my father and my guide. .
When sorrow clouds my brow I seem to hear
Thy well-loved voice that makes my cares to cease;
And then I long to tell thee all my grief;
The thought thou lov’st me still gives perfect peace.
I feel thou sharest in my joys ! My mirth
Thou lov’st to hear ; and to a realm more bright
Thou try’st to guide my steps. May we once more
Meet—in the joyful sphere of endless light! M. I. G.
April, 1878.
RETROSPECT OF THE SESSION OF FORTNIGHTLY
SPIRITUALISTIC DISCUSSION MEETINGS, 1877-78.*
BT THE REV. W. STAINTON-MOSES, M.A.
It is a useful habit to take stock at stated times, and to
see how we stand. It is interesting, too, to look back from
a baiting place, and to see what ground we have traversed,
and what knowledge we have gained during a recent journey.
We have arrived at such a halting place, and we may use¬
fully review the session now drawing to its close, and see
what ground we have covered.
Ho one who has attended our fortnightly discussions will
be disposed to grumble at the variety, or, I think, at the
quality of the mental food presented to him. Subjects of
the greatest interest have been discussed, and it has been
open to any one interested in the broad questions with which
Spiritualism deals—and with what subjects on which the
spirit of man engages does it not deal ?—to ventilate his
theory, if he has one, hr to listen to other people, if he is
fortunate enough to be destitute of baggage, and to amuse
himself by exploding the word-balloon of his instructor.
We have believed that the fullest and frankest, expression
of opinion, the widest range of speculation, and the most
audacious attempts to explore the most recondite mysteries
are compatible with that decorous divergence of thought and
language which should characterise a public meeting. Hay,
more. We have believed that we do well to ventilate every
phase of thought; to encourage all to bring their theories,
opinions, observations, speculations to that best of all
possible touchstones—open and unreserved discussion.
We have observed, in the page of history, that a fallacy is
long lived in proportion to the care with which it is secluded
from public discussion. We see, in the course of our own
daily experience, that there is nothing so good hs the free air
of open discussion for blowing away fogs. And so we have
desired to let this blessed air of heaven have free course.
Mysteries there are, we do not doubt, which are all un¬
suited to the diffuse and necessarily shallow discussion which
is all they can expect here. But, then, they can afford to
wait, and the student will approach them at an advantage
when they have, had their preliminary sifting in public.
And for the most of those questions which are being in¬
creasingly forced on our attention day by day, we entertain
no doubt whatever that to encourage observers who have had
various means of observation, and who bring to the investi¬
gation various types of mind to record their facts and
opinions, can be productive of nothing but good.
In this belief we have not only encouraged the fullest
range of discussion, but we have even striven to find advo¬
cates, or, if not such, then critics, of views which are not
universally received and believed amongst us. We have not
always succeeded; but we may at any rate boast that we
have covered a wide area during our past session.
FORM MANIFESTATIONS
have engaged a considerable share of our attention, as indeed
is most deserving. Hothing more astounding has been
recorded within the whole range of phenomena, no one of
which lacks its element of the marvellous, than those pheno¬
mena which were recorded by Mr. Colley, after a long course
of personal investigation, at our meeting on Hovember 12,
1877. The new departure here was the production of the
II forms under the eye of the observer without the perplexing
| conditions usually insisted on—a cabinet and total darkness,
| • or the still more deceptive glimmer of light which so
i frequently makes observation impossible. Mr. Colley’s
I experience I was able to confirm in a far inferior degree in a
i i j subsequent paper read Hovember 30th, 1877. In a very
! j much inferior degree, because I had not had his facilities for
I | repeated observation, though I had seen what I recorded
| j under circumstances which were to me satisfactory.
i|| I had already (May 18, 1877) read a paper on the same
| jj subject before this Association, and had ventured to specify
| I some desideranda. Most of these have now become accom-
j | plished facts, and the phenomena, testified to by Mr. Colley
| | and myself, have since been repeated on several occasions,
| | and in the presence of other observers, especially Mr. Ads-
j | head, Mr. Wedgwood, and Mr. Cranstoun.
ilj Not only this ; but similar phenomena, differing in degree
| only and not in kind, have been obtained with other
j mediums, and in the presence of other observers. I would
| especially instance the records which have been printed in
j The Spiritualist during the past year of phenomena ob-
| served in the presence of Mr. Eglinton, and the conclusive
j j evidence published by Mr. Wedgwood (May 31st ult.) re-
j | j specting Mr. Haxby. There we have a case, squaring with
| | many others recorded both in this country and in America,
11 of the production in a private house of forms robed in
| | abundant white drapery after the medium had been entirely
| j clothed in dark material. These cases* again and again
I | recorded by observers above suspicion, and of proved com-
| | petence, in various places, and in the presence of various
I | mediums, both in this and in other countries, lift the
| j phenomenon of form manifestation into the region of proven
| | truth.
| | Ho doubt remains possible as to the fact; but as to the
I | explanation of that fact, as to the methods by which these
| | astonishing results are produced, there is a very large scope
| | for speculation: so vast, indeed, that the imagination is
| | paralysed, and those who think deepest feel that they have
| | least to say. It is easy to promulgate theories, to weave
| | ingenious explanations which do duty until some fact
I | unluckily explodes them. But, when all this has been done,
I l| the explanation still remains to seek.
! (i WEIGHING THE MEDIUM.
It has been reserved for the committee under whose auspices
| | these meetings are held, to take the first practical step
111 towards the scientific solution of the problem,
j 11 They have demonstrated, by a series of experiments with
j j a medium seated in a suspended cabinet which was connected
| I with a weighing machine, that the body of the medium loses
| | weight when the form is manifested, and regains it when the
| | manifestations cease. Many of us no doubt have heard the
| | explanations given as to the emanations from the body of
| | the medium being used, and have questioned the manifesting
| | spirits without any particular access of light to the mind on
| I these problems. Many, like myself, must have been unable
j j to comprehend how a medium could be deprived of a portion
j of his material substance, and restored, after such disintegra-
| | tion, to his normal condition.
| | That some such process is carried out is, however, apparent
| | from the experiments alluded to by Mr. Harrison in his
I | paper read on the occasion of our last meeting (June 3).
I j These experiments are published at length in The Spiritualist
I I of May 3rd, where also may be found a complete account of
I | the methods adopted and results obtained. The broad result
| | elaborated by Mr. W. H. Harrison shows that when the most
| I powerful form manifestations are in process the medium is re-
| j duced in weight to about five-and-thirty pounds from more than
j j a hundred and fifty pounds; and further, that this borrowed
| | materiality is restored in one observed case, by instalments
I | of about 40 pounds each, at the end of the seance^ when the
| j I forms disappear. It will, of course, be necessary to repeat
| | these experiments over and over again before it is safe to
111 draw minute deductions from them. The new, and far more
j < | accurate, apparatus which the generosity of Mr. Blackburn
j j is furnishing us with, renders that a possible achievement
11 in the future. For the present we may claim to have demon-
| { strated that a process to which the term materialisation may
[ [ properly be applied takes place in certain observed cases,
and that the appearances which have so puzzled us are, in
* A paper read last Monday night before the British National Association of
| pirituaiists.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
295
June 2l, 1878.
some cases, what they pretend to be—viz.? bodies structured j j j
from the medium, afc least in part: intimately connected | j j
with his physical organism, and mysteriously dependent on m -
it for their existence on the plane of matter. j 1 [
This is no light gain: for surely, what with evidence
making for transformation or transfiguration of the medium, j j j
what with illusory conditions, and bewildering statements, ilj
and insufficient observations, and generalisations of the m
hop-skip-and-jump character, never was any subject so beset j j|
with difficulty as this. j j j
Is it too much to hope that for the time to come we may j Ij
have only exact facts recorded, and that our friends will I (i
distinguish between them and deductions from them ? j) j
So much for the light thrown on these form manifestations, j j i
It remains for us in our next session to push on the explora- I ij
tion still further into the border-land of the unknown, and j j j
to endeavour to solve the pressing problem of presenting jjj
these phenomena under circumstances which render observa- j )
tion easy and scientifically accurate. At present there is jjj
much difficulty in securing opportunity for observation; and, j j
when it is secured, in getting fair means for careful investi- j ij
gation. I hope that some of our friends who devote them- j
selves to this work, with facilities which all do not possess, j j j
will investigate with a view to recording their facts precisely j j
in the form of a paper for our next session. jjj
||
STIGMATISATION. ! j j
On the 11th of February of this year Dr. Carter Blake jjj
gave us an elaborate description of the phenomena which j i |
are observed in the case of Louise Lateau, and a very careful j I
summary of the investigations made by four scientific ex- j j
perts. It seems pretty clear that Louise is one of those
abnormal creatures whom doctors call hysterical, and that, j I
whether a self-deceiver or an impostor, her claim to having j j
supported a three years and a-half fast is quite unworthy of j j
consideration. No care has been taken to prevent her from
having access to food; and there is little doubt that if such j j
access were prevented, we should have a repetition of the j j
case of the Welsh fasting girl, who was killed, as Dr. C. j j
Blake well puts it, “ to demonstrate the fact that all living jjj
beings receive nutriment.” jjj
The stigmatisation remains, however, on a different basis. | j
She bleeds every Friday, and a careful testing in one de- j j
tailed case proved that the stigmata occur u spontaneously, j j
and without the intervention of external violence.” I do j
not know whether any of the experimenters had an adequate j
acquaintance with the phenomena of Psychology. If not, j
their attention might usefully be directed to the potency of I
that unknown factor in all such matters, t/ie human will. I !
may say, also, that I know at least one case in which the j
stigmata have repeatedly occurred, and always (I believe) j j
as the result of an ecstatic condition following on a state of S
rapt and earnest prayer.
At the time of the discussion on this paper I mentioned j j
also a case in which the appearance of a spirit, who had met j j
his death by accident, was accompanied by the production j j
on the brow of the medium of the stigma of the wound j j
received at the time of death. This occurred on two sepa- j j
rate occasions, and the stigma remained visible as a dark i I
purple mark, gradually fading out, during a period of more j i
than fifty hours on the first occasion, and of about twenty- j j
six on the next. There was no abrasion of the skin, and no j j
loss of blood. | j
CRTSTALLOMANCr. j i
On the 25th of March, Dr. Kenneth Mackenzie read a j j
curious paper on that curious subject, Crystallomaney, or j j
crystal-seeing. He had made some experiments at home, of j j
which he had preserved some very copious and exact records, j j
as I know from having been permitted to see them, and j
from these he was kind enough to give us some extracts, j j
He gave us a curious glimpse of that “ new and peculiar jjj
world,” as he called it, opened to the crystallomancer. He jjj
hinted that this world is peopled by beings of a different jjj
order to ourselves—possibly the sub-human spirits of which jjj
the Occultists tell us—and he correlated his own results with j j
those arrived at by Dr .Dee (preserved in eight MS. volumes in j I
the British Museum), and the unknown crystallomancer of j j
the time of William III. j.jj
The curious must be referred to Dr. Mackenzie’s able and ! 1
elaborate paper {Spiritualist^ March 29th) for further in¬
formation. And while they see how much curious informa¬
tion he gives about mirror-spirits, they will be able to note
at the same time that his experience in the wide range of
Spiritualism proper has not'been such as to enable him to
grasp its significance.
PSYCHOGRAPHY.
The subject of psychography in one of its branches has
received the attention it deserves in a paper read on March
1st by Miss Kislingbury. The discussion has a direct bear¬
ing on the question of identity, several instances of which
are given, as well as some remarkable experiments as to the
nature of the communicating intelligence made by Mr.
Hornung from 1853 downwards. He submitted identical
questions to mediums of various ages, conditions of life,
and religious beliefs, and the results he tabulates very care¬
fully, concluding that the chief factor in the manifestations
is “ the echo of our own soul, our higher spirituality, the
divine unknown, the hidden prophet, the universal spirit.”
With this my experience, at any rate, does not coincide. I
believe in the identity of spirits in very many demonstrable
cases, though I subscribe heartily to the wisdom of the
words with which Miss Kislingbury closes her paper: u Is
it not more ennobling to judge of these communications by
their intrinsic merit, according to their tone and influence,
than to be perpetually seeking for tests of the personal
identity of our friends ; to accept the teacher for the sake of
his teaching, no matter what his name or insignia?” as I
do to the platform which she erects in her opening sentences.
“ For myself I consider it of such supreme importance that
we should arrive at right conclusions in these matters that I
shall not allow myself to be driven back or frightened away
from due examination of every theory, new and old. ... I
intend to go on exercising full freedom of inquiry, looking
carefully all round both facts and theories, turning them
over and handling them familiarly, until I get right into the
heart of things, and learn something of their true nature,
instead of being satisfied with that which appears only.”
These seem to me to be noble sentiments, worthy of utter¬
ance from this platform of free and unrestricted inquiry, and
fit to be the motto of every searcher after truth.
. CLAIRVOYANCE.
Mr. Gray, C.E., gave us on May 6 some extremely
striking cases of clairvoyant description of spirits under
circumstances which go far to prove identity of the com¬
municating spirit, and which work in and square with so
many other similar experiences. His arguments on this
head, directed chiefly against those who would deny the
existence of any communication with the spirits of departed
human beings, are very cogent and complete. He separates
between fact and speculation in a way that should commend
itself to the heart of Mr. Newton, who, on the evening of
April 8, gave us a much needed exhortation on the necessity
of distinguishing between faith and knowledge: as well as to
the scientific mind of Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, who showed,
on the 20th of May, that some speculative views that have
been advanced were, in his opinion, and as they presented
themselves to his comprehension, inconsistent with the proven
and universally accepted fact of the conservatism of energy.
Mr. Gray’s recorded cases are very parallel to one which I
mentioned as within my own experience in a paper on Some
Difficulties of an Enquirer, which I read at a late soiree here,
and which is published in The Spiritualist of May 3. Very
many of the same nature are within my personal knowledge.
Indeed, for some two-and-a-half years I lived in the midst of
evidence that those who have gone before can and do return
to us under certain carefully-guarded conditions. And I
believe further that it is the lack of those conditions, the
difficulty of securing them, and our own state of nervous
anxiety when the affections are strongly excited that puts the
most frequent barrier to the realisation of our wishes in this
respect. As it is I am familiar with cases of proven identity
of communicating spirits which no destructive theory in the
least disposes of, and which are as clearly demonstrated to
me as any fact within my knowledge.
SPECULATIONS
There remain three papers contributed to our discussions
which deal not so much with facts as with explanations,
296
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 21,1878.
speculations, and theories. These are Mr. Green’s
dissertation on The Evolution Theory in its relation to
Psychology (Spiritualist, March 15); Dr. Wyld’s vindi¬
cation of the potency of the human spirit (Spiritualist,
December 14, 1877); and Mr. 0. 0. Massey’s most
able attempt to illustrate some of our difficulties by ex¬
pounding metaphysical conceptions of space, and by show¬
ing us that our views of what is called matter are not such
as can be justly maintained—since matter is, in effect, only
ii a manifestation of powers and agencies that lie behind it
and, consequently, that what so mystifies and perplexes us
in the phenomena which show us the power of spirit over
matter “ is simply the power of spirit over itself ” exemplified
in action.
The attempt of all these gentlemen to elucidate the
difficulties which grow upon the thoughtful mind are valuable,
and will, I think, be of increasing value, in proportion as the
number of those, who dive below the surface increases amongst
us. That this will be the case I entertain no doubt. There
are signs all round us that men are spending time and pains
on investigation who will not be content with mere sur¬
face explanations. And though the time will not come soon
when astonishment at the marvellous will be so far
diminished by recurrent experience as to eliminate the
element of wonder-hunting, there is no doubt that intelligent
Spiritualists will require, with increasing severity, that
recitals and records should be independent of exaggeration
due to that cause. And though, moreover, the number of
those whose antecedent training qualifies them to follow such
a close analysis as Mr. Massey’s is small as yet, I hope that the
number will steadily increase; for if the metaphysicians are in
any degree right, their domain of inquiry is closely connected
with our own, and we may borrow from them some needed
light.
“ We have facts,” said Mr. Massey in a passage of singular
beauty with which he closed his paper,((which, not ignorance,
however dense; not prejudice, however illiberal; not con¬
tempt, however arrogant, can in the least disturb. But this
is not enough. Reason must descend upon these facts, and
philosophy must embrace experience. Then shall truth
triumph in the world be whose will the honour, and whose
must the shame.”
HINTS FOR NEXT SESSION.
Such is the record of our past session ; one, I confidently
submit, that we have no cause to be ashamed of. Among
the many good works accomplished by this Association I
know none the fruits of which are more manifest. I very
much regret that no permanent record of the discussions
which have followed the several papers, has been preserved.
We are indebted to the Editor of The Spiritualist for print¬
ing the papers^ themselves, and they have been not the least
interesting portion of the matter which is laid before the
readers of that journal. There are many difficulties, in the
way of reporting the discussion, but I hope they are not in¬
superable. In the course of another session some means
may, I trust, be devised for preserving some record of the
criticisms and opinions expressed. One obvious reason
among many is this :—A paper, containing sometimes views
which are put forward for the purpose of eliciting discussion,
goes forth without any record of the criticism passed upon it,
and so appears in a false light, unchallenged and, as it were,
with the imprimatur of approval stamped upon it. This
leads to misconception, and should be avoided. Moreover,
some most valuable hints and suggestions thrown out in
discussion are lost, and those who are not present at the
reading of the paper lose much of its value, even if they do
not carry away an erroneous notion of the feeling of the
meeting.
I hope that a still more completely organised plan may be
carried out in our next session, and that it may be arranged
to prepare a list of subjects, with the names of persons who
will promise to give us the benefit of their experience upon
them, so that a programme may be published at the begin¬
ning of the session. This is the plan adopted at the Royal
Institution, and it has obvious advantages. Instead of
desultory papers, we should then be able to secure an ex¬
haustive treatment of the questions with which we are
concerned : members would be attracted by an orderly plan
such as we could put forward, and would know what to look
forward to. If the results could be collected and published
in a cheap form at the close of the session another great
boon would be secured for the intelligent and inquiring
Spiritualist.
The complete list of papers read during the session is as
follows:—
No.
Date.
Title.
Nov. 12,1877 Becent Form Manifestations
26 „ Form Manifestations
Dec. 10 „ Man as a Spirit
Jan. 14,1878 Are Form Manifestations the Besult
of Embodied or Disembodied
Spirits ?
Space and Time
Stigmatisation
Writing Mediumship in Eolation to
Spirit Identity
Evolution Theory, and its Belation to
Psychology
The Spirit World as Seen through
Crystals, Mirrors, and Vessels of
Water
Faith versus Knowledge
Some Personal Experiences and
Thoughts Thereon
The Conservation of Energy
Weighing Mediums during seances
Eetrospect of the Session
j 28 ,
Feb. 11 ,
. 25 ,
March 11
10 April
11 May
12 „
13 June
14 „
Author.
Bev. T. Colley
Eev. W. Stainton-
Moses
Dr. George Wyld
Mr. T. Shorter
Mr. C. C. Massey
Dr. Carter Blake
Miss Kislingbury
Mr. G. F. Green
Dr. Kenneth
kenzie
Mac-
W. Newton, Esq.
Mr. J. W. Gray
D. G. FitzGerald
W. H. Harrison
Stainton-Moses
Beference to
Date of Ap¬
pearance in
Spiritualist.
Nov. 16, p. 236
„ 30, p. 254
Dec. 14, p. 283
Not reported
Feb. 1, p. 55
„ 15, p. 74
March 1, p. 99
15, p. 131
29, p. 151
April 19, p. 181
May 10, p. 220
„ 24, p.249
June 7, p .268
17, p. 294
CLAIRVOYANCE.
The Independent Age of Affiance, Ohio, publishes the following:—
Mrs. Andrus, the entranced and painting medium (of Cleveland),
together with her husband, have been guests for some days past in
the families of J. R. Haines and C. C. Manfull, of our city. Mrs.
Andrus has given a great number of test sittings.
Mrs. Andrus, while heavily blindfolded, and when entranced (or
controlled, as she claims, by a spirit), will read anything, answers
readily any questions, discourses on any subject better than when not
under control, and replies to questions that none of her listeners or ques¬
tioners could possibly answer were they put to them. When under
this spirit control she describes the spirit friends of the person she
is talking to, tells how long they have been in spirit-life, when and where
they died, what disease they died of, and describes their complexion,
hair, eyes, and so on, as perfectly as could their most intimate
earthly friend.
Last Thursday it was noised abroad that a prominent member of the
Catholic Church, and a worthy citizen of our town, Mr. Thomas
McKeniry, had said that he knew that this medium could not read one of
the saint books after the priest had blessed it, and passed his hands
over it. Mr. McKeniry being anxious to put the medium to the test,
was invited by Mr. Manfull to his house, in company with a large
number of gentlemen, where, he was assured, the test would at least be
attempted. None of the company, so far as we know, which gathered
to witness the test were Spiritualists. The medium was under bad
conditions, having been thrown from a sleigh and considerably injured.
But upon hearing that a crowd had gathered to see her read a certain
book, and satisfactorily answer questions, after being blindfolded by a
committee of their own selection, she expressed herself not only willing,
but anxious to be put to the test, stating that it mattered not to the
spirits what kind of a book they selected. She was blindfolded by a
committee selected by the Catholic gentlemen, and approved by the
crowd. A pad of linen of twelve thicknesses, together with two pieces
of harness leather, were placed over each eye, reaching from above the
eyebrows down to the opening of the nose, then a heavy linen bandage
covering the pads bound them tight to the flesh. In a few minutes she
was entranced, and a strange voice, speaking through the medium,
called for any one to ask questions, and to produce anything they
wanted read. Letter after letter, paper after paper was
produced, and everything most accurately read, to the wonder and
satisfaction of everybody. Mr. McKeniry then came forward with
his book—and all breathlessly awaited the struggle between supposed
infallibility, on the one hand, and Spiritualism on the other. As quick
as a flash the spirit-voice read aloud from each page of the open
book, and pointed to the Latin sentences. Mr. McKeniry expressed
himself perfectly satisfied that she could read his book as well as he
could. The voice then asked any one dissatisfied to blindfold her—the
medium—in any way they liked. They all answered that they were
thoroughly satisfied. She then invited Mr. McKeniry to bring all the
priests that they might move their hands over her and do as they
pleased, but that she would read their books just the same. Watches
were then produced; she then instantly described the watches and told
the time. Old photographs were produced, pictures of individuals
present, but taken in their youth many years ago; instantly she would
say whose they were and when they were taken. All expressed them¬
selves satisfied, and all questions were answered till no one would ask
any more. The seance then closed. Mrs. Andrus is a thorough lady, and
has made many friends among the more orthodox church members, who
once thought the Spiritualists were different from other people. The
subject of Spiritualism is interesting hundreds in our community.
“ As for spirits, I am so far from denying their existence that I could
easily believe that not only whole countries, but particular persons,
have their tutelary and guardian angels, . .. This serves as an hypo¬
thesis to solve many doubts whereof common philosophy affordeth no
solution,”—Sir T. Browne.
June 21, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
297
SPIKITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
The Melbourne Age, an exceedingly well-edited and instructive daily
paper, superior to several of those of London, contains in its issue of
March 23rd, 1878, the following report:—
CHKISTIANITV AND SPIRITUALISM.
The ninth and closing night of the debate on this subject, which has
excited unusual, interest amongst a certain portion of the community,
came off on Thursday evening, when the Temperance Hall was crowded
by the friends and partisans of the opponents, to listen to their final
arguments. Thte grounds of the debate were, an affirmation on the part
of Mr. Walker, a young trance speaker, that “the Bible supports and
parallels modern Spiritualism and its phenomena,” Mr. Green taking
the negative of this position. In the first opening of their intellectual
contest it had been arranged that from three to five nights should be,
devoted to the subject; but the unusual interest manifested by the
audiences, and the remarkable ability with which each party main¬
tained his ground, impelled the extension of the debate from night to
night, and even when the ninth session was reached the contenders, and
their enthusiastic admirers on either side, seemed to relinquish their
game of logic with the utmost reluctance. It would be useless to
attempt any reiteration of the arguments adduced by either disputant.
On the side of the minister they were not only advanced in the most
unqualified defence of the Bible, its divine inspiration and the infalli¬
bility of all its utterances, the truth, purity, and value of all its narra¬
tives, and the utter impossibility of parallelling its “ miracles ” by any
example of modern phenomena, but the reverend gentleman also fol¬
lowed out the offensive line of warfare, attacking in the most merciless
manner the morale of his adversary’s belief, the dignity of the Spirit¬
ualistic phenomena, the reliability of the spirits, and the possibility of
drawing any parallel between their phenomenal exhibitions and the
miracles of the Bible. Without proving very clearly how such a line of
attack bore on the subject of debate, Mr. Green armed himself with an
immense number of quotations from the literature of the Spiritualists,
on the authority of which he relied for proof that their doctrines were
contradictory, immoral, and subversive of the best interests of society.
The reverend gentleman read extracts from the writings of Randolph,
Moses Hull, Dr. Hatch, Jamieson, and others, of the same stamp, but,
as his antagonist shrewdly alleged, never alluded to the existence of
such authors as William and Mary Howitt, Mr. and Mrs. S. G. Hall,
Professors Alfred Wallace, Hare, Stainton-Moses, Serjeant Cox, Robert
Dale Owen, Epes Sargent, Rev. Adin Ballou, Drs. Eugene Crowell,
A. B. Child, Wm. Hitchman, Viscount Amberley, Lord Adare, the
Countess of Caithness, and hosts of other European and American
writers, whose talents and high social position entitle them to be re¬
garded as better representatives of Spiritualism than those from whose
writings the minister made his selection. Randolph, Mr. Walker alleged,
was a poor half-witted opium-eater, whose public recantations and sub¬
sequent adoption of the spiritual philosophy had procured for him all the
notoriety he enjoyed. Moses Hull and Jamieson had been openly
repudiated by the great body of the American Spiritualists for their
atrociously immoral conduct, whilst Dr. Hatch was tabooed still more
determinately as a representative Spiritualist by a letter from
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, in which she pointed out that the
witness cited had long since been scouted by and driven
forth from the ranks of American Spiritualists on account of his
criminal practices and “ shameless immoralities.” Several other
spiritualistic authorities were cited by Mr. Green in proof of what he
declared to be their loose estimate of the marriage tie, and their disre¬
gard of law and order. Amongst such, writings the reverend gentleman
treated his listeners to certain quotations from a volume entitled Holy
Truth, the work of our fellow townsman, Mr. H. J. Browne, and it
must be confessed, whatever the audience may have deemed of the sub¬
ject before this reading, few listeners could fail to recognise the logic of
the argument and purity of the ideas put forth by the author; in fact,
a few more such quotations would in all probability have served Mr.
Walker’s purpose better than that of his reverend opponent. On the
other hand, Mr. Walker, in rebutting the wholesale charge of immorality
brought against the literature of Spiritualism by selections from its
least accredited authors, called upon his chairman to read a multitude
of Biblical passages, the nature of which may be easily divined when
the avowed object was to • show the immoral tendency and impure
character of some at least of those writings, when interpreted in a
human sense only, on which Mr. Green based his claims of unap¬
proachable excellence .and divine inspiration. The arguments on both
sides were pungent, well-sustained, and sufficiently powerful to render
the debate a drawn game, in which the friends of both parties claimed
the palm of victory. Some of the most unprejudiced of the listeners
thought Mr. Green’s case by far the hardest to manage, and his argu¬
ments savouring more of dogmatic assertion than calm reasoning, but
none could deny him the credit of remarkable fluency of speech,
earnestness of manner, and an indomitable purpose to break his adver¬
sary down by picking out and massing together all the weak or salient
points which could be brought to bear on his cause. On Mr. Walker’s
side the display of extraordinary readiness and quick-witted argument
with which he conducted his case only served to strengthen the favourable
impression which his “ trance lectures,” recently'delivered in this city,
produced upon his admirers. Admitting their claim that he is a youth
of scarcely twenty, wholly uneducated, and destitute of any natural
resources to account for his remarkable powers of oratory, he presented
throughout this debate an evidence of phenomenal ability more strik¬
ingly interesting than any of the other marvels he cited. Both the
disputants were enthusiastically cheered by their several partisans.
The interest never flagged throughout the entire of the long-protracted
sessions. The attendance was always numerous and respectable, and
the proceeds accruing from the entrance fees are to he placed in the
hands of a committee, to aid in defraying the expenses of publishing the
debate in pamphlet form, neither of the gentlemen deriving any other
benefit from their intellectual labours than such honour as may accrue
to the “isms” they represented. After a cordial vote of thanks and
complimentary resolutions addressed to the chairman, Mr. Ross, for his
able management of the debate, and the honourable impartiality with
which he—a pronounced Spiritualist—sustained it, the meeting sepa¬
rated, and the friends of Spiritualism bore off their champion, Mr.
Thomas Walker, apparently quite satisfied that he had made more con¬
verts to their belief amongst the ranks of his adversary than they had
carried with them into the debate.
Matchmaking mothers, who drive their daughters to the matrimonial
market and sell them irrespective of their affections for the greatest
price they will fetch in the shape of material advantages, infest society
in Australia as at home, and are the causes of tens of thousands of
wasted lives and miserable homes. Here is a good story from the Mel¬
bourne Age of the doings of some of these women:—
The proud and happy mother of a young lady, who had somewhat
unexpectedly become engaged in marriage to a parti highly eligible in
all essential particulars, set off on a round of morning calls to circulate
the delightful intelligence, and excite the envy and hatred of all other
mothers with marriageable daughters still on hand. Her mission was
entirely successful, and she had every reason to felicitate herself upon
the jealousy and malice to which she was privileged to give rise in the
course of the day. But at length she happened upon a lady friend
possessed of a particularly acerb tongue, and whose temper had been
slightly aggravated by the circumstance that her own daughters did not
go off with alacrity. “ Is it not rather sudden ? ” she asked, when she
heard the news. “ It seems only the other day that he (the intended)
was in constant attendance upon Miss So-and-so, and every one said it
was to be a match. If he is to marry your girl it can scarcely be a case
of affection.” “A case of affection!” echoed the other, “Why he
worships the very ground she stands on.” “Lucky, that,” quoth the
interlocutrix, “ and he will never have any occasion to complain that
his feelings are cramped for want of space, for your Jemima, dear girl,
stands upon a deal of ground.” Needless to say, when this mot spread
abroad, the delights of that wedding suffered some diminution.
While people at home are debating as to the existence of the sea ser¬
pent, Mr. A. R. Wallace and Aquarium proprietors may he interested in
the following statement of Mr. Edgar H. Minton, correspondent of the
Melbourne Age in the South Sea Islands
When the breeze sprang up the following morning we sailed for the
island of Sum, and anchored in nine fathoms in an open roadstead,
opposite a shell station occupied by a white man. The island of Sum
is a perfect little garden. I went ashore, and was informed by the
man, who was an American, that there were several stations on other
parts of the island. While here there were several sea serpents seen,
of the average length of 12, 20, and 40 feet; they were a sort of grey
colour, with yellow bands. They had immense flat heads, and from the
top of the nose down the shoulders were covered with a kind of coarse
bristles. There were also a number of sword fish.
MRS. HARDINGE BRITTEN’S OPENING ADDRESS TO MELBOURNE SPIRITUALISTS.
The Harbinger of Light (Melbourne) says that Mrs. Hardinge Britten
arrived at Melbourne from Sydney by the Wotonga, on Thursday even¬
ing, the 14th April, and was met on hoard by a deputation of ladies and
gentlemen representing the Victorian Association of Spiritualists. A
number of Spiritualists and others assembled at the Masonic Hall,
Lonsdale-street, on the following evening, and held a conversazione, at
which Dr. and Mrs. Britten were present, and received a most cordial
welcome and greeting. After an address of welcome had been read Mrs.
Britten came forward and spoke as follows :—
Ladies and Gentlemen,—I am bound to make a speech, though I had
no anticipation of doing so. I am about to do so for myself, and as I
have not the advantages which result from the Inspirational state, you
must take the will for the deed. Need I say how earnestly I respond
to the loving words of the address—you can hardly imagine the feelings
of one coming amongst you from such a vast distance, with nothing to
guide, prompt, assist, and kneel upon except the invisible world, a com¬
paratively unknown people, whom the natural world call dead, whose
voices I hear, and with whom I often hold communion; I have not only
come 7,000 miles to visit you, who are all strangers, but I have come to
a land which is neither my own, nor does it bear any similarity to any
land previously visited by me; and beyond this I have taken steps to
urge my kind companion to accompany me to this new world. When I
look back I feel no regret. The kind faces and voices around me have
already done much to make me feel reconciled to the change. I am
obliged .continually to remember the wonderful impressions which I have
experienced, the strange countries through which I have been led, and
the strange perils with which I have met—of which many of you have
little knowledge. The journals of the day give us no place, and our own
busy pursuits and engagements prevent us keeping those records which
belong to our movement; you would, therefore, be surprised (as many
have already been) were I to detail to you some of those passages of
spiritual support wherein unknown voices have guided me safely. Never
have I been without their presence and help. Their voices are always
speaking to me. The air has been full of illumined faces, and the void
has been filled with the faces of those who are called “ dead.” I saw,
then, how these spiritual facts were interwoven, and at last came
the perfectly well understood telegram. It was only then I began
my girlhood, and singular knowledge—only then that the spirits
of those I saw vanish from my side I felt from my soul were not
dead. The gates were ajar; one after another telegraphed to me from
I the shore of the great unknown; and, in my great enthusiasm of feeling
298
June 21, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
that they were not dead, I proposed to dedicate myself to their service, j 5
I had previously shrunk from their presence, and my whole career had I <
been one of perverseness; but my spirit friends, who were in constant i
attendance upon me, at last gained the victory, and called upon me to !
devote myself as a public medium. For eighteen months in the city of i
New York I filled that post, giving all the means I could command to !
the services of the spirits; for eighteen I sat free for the public as a <
medium. During that period I became the minister of much that was j <
marvellous, but so wonderful was the idea of communicating with the ; J
mysterious dead that many would not believe, and attributed it to | <
psychology and somnambulism, saying that psychology was a force—a j <
wonderful force—and that it was while I.was subject to that somnam- j j
bulism that my best speeches had been made. The time came when j)
those periods of lucidity called somnambulism were cleared away, and j <
my experiences in New York would make many a volume. I have seen j j
so many criminal ones sent away from my circle-room with a depth of j
resolute purpose in their eyes—I have seen so many eyes opened and j
grateful ones clasping hands, as if I had been an angel sent from j j
heaven. The result is that I have found myself travelling over fields ! 5
and mountains, over lakes and long roads, and for thousands of miles j j
across the broad prairies, and always amongst strangers, always alone, j )
save the presence of the invisible host. I have had over 2000 applica- j f
tions for lectures, and from those have only made a selection of twelve, I \
and was always guided by this invisible power, was always sent to the j j
right persons, and with the right directions. I was selected—not with j)
unkindness (I never dare say that)—but certainly with some speciality j
of purpose. What seemed to me the hardest work was when I first )
commenced to speak in the city of Glasgow to over 2,000 dark faces, j j
On this occasion the spirits insisted I should speak when 2,000 i j
savage men — many with iron physiognomies — met with their )
heads covered, and eyes glaring, reminding me of the danger of j)
daring to speak of Spiritualism to that fierce - looking crowd; j <
the spirits bade me go, and, armed as I was with such power, J never j j
felt any fear; for had I not had the Red Indian’s lighted torch flashed j)
before my eyes, and the well-known hatchet, the sign of war; but the j (
spirits always gave me the assurance that I had nothing to fear. When, i»
also, I was entering the city of Montreal two strangers met me and )
asked me to turn back, and said I would only be insulted if I persisted (
in my determination to stay; and again, when in San Francisco j
thirteen years ago, a party of gentlemen who had heard me speak, said !)
they would do anything to help me out of the city : they said the people i j
intended to “ steamboat ” me, and when I asked what was meant by j)
that, they said it was to put me out of the country. But I was resolute, I j
and when I asked their advice, they said if I would lecture on scientific I (
matters they would accord me their help, carry my advertisements to i )
the papers, and pay for me. I came with only a few “ greenbacks ’’in i j
my pocket. Those who had invited me failed and feared to stand by | (
me; but I had the heart of a true friend by my side. When the ) j
strangers who had promised to take my advertisements had gone, the j)
spirits said there seemed to be some misapprehension on the part of the j j j
public as to the nature of my visit, and that it was necessary to clear j [
that away; and I then declared that I spoke by the aid of disembodied j)
spirits, and that if they did not like to hear me they need not come (
again; and I expected that they would extend to me that fair-play of j j <
which Americans were so proud; and when they met me again they )
said they were sorry, and declined to interfere. The spirits then came i (|
to my help, and a good quaker (who has now passed over to the other j j j
shore)—good old soul!—said the spirits visited him in the night, ) i
and requested him to send “ six golden coach-wheels ”—which (I
made me smile at the time. I then had the advertisements |
inserted, and commenced my career in San Francisco. I was j
no more than what you see me now—perhaps somewhat more i1
effective—but still the same impulsive woman. I need not, how- j |
ever, dwell on these matters. Suffice it to say the people did not i j
“steamboat” me. I spoke for ten months, and after I had been to j i
Nevada, amongst the mining companies—passing through the wildest ] [ j
and rudest scenes—and returned to San Francisco, I met with such a j)
reception that they came to me with one accord, and besought me to i < i
become their orator, and I spoke to 10,000 persons in churches where (j i
they had torn down portions to allow room for the multitude; but, as j) i
the spirit had said, there was not a voice, or a sign of disturbing me, J
though I spoke from thirty-three to thirty-seven consecutive days, i j I
Everywhere they gave me carte blanche, and asked me my “pay.” I i) j
asked for the re-instalment of President Lincoln. I have told you j <
this not for the purpose of egotism. I have told you this simply j
to point out to you how and why I am amongst you to-night. It |) j
never seemed to my opinion that the time had arrived for me to j (j
come. Sometimes there came gleams of the future—of climes where j
I was going—and whenever these came unsought, they were invariably |);
true; but not so fortunes. I came not to tell fortunes, friends. It was j (j
that strange form of speech which falls on one like a “ baptism of fire.’’ j |
I was enabled to look down the golden corridors, and see the mountain |)!
climbed. So I have seen this wonderful gem of the ocean. From (i
time to time I have seen glimmerings of it, and now stand beneath i j j
its burning skies, and amongst its coves. I know I have seen that j (
cove, and the bays of Sydney, with their laughing waters. I know \ j
it was in the future for me, but I could not tell when. Twelve j
months ago I was tied and fettered—was bound hand and foot by j) i
duties which it seemed impossible to break—duties which bound me i \ i
to my friends in Massachusetts, and all seemed laid down in one i) i
groove, and I ran in that groove to the end; but all at once the road < j
changed, and new panoramas opened before me, and I said—was it to j (i
be that I was again to be lashed on those vast and illimitable spaces P i i
It could not be; but it was strange. My husband and myself saw i)
that all was tending to one point, and leading onward to that future till i (|
California loomed away in the far distance ; and notwithstanding the ) i
many places I have visited, I must say I almost dreaded Australia. At j (j
last, however, all seemed cleared away, and my mother, though eighty-
six years of age, accompanied my husband across the ocean. I never
would sever the ties of father, children, and mother, but she severed
them herself. It was to be. I and my husband saw the spirit hands
and feet mapping out the roads for us. There was little left to do. We
sped back. We took her, without a ripple on the water, and she was
borne up by a power she never manifested before. Between all our
troubles we could see the wire-pullers behind. The car of destiny was
prepared for us, and it seemed as if the voices sounded in our ears, and
we obeyed the voice. Travelling far. far across the prairies and the
west, we two exiles proceeded on. We found many warm hearts and
hands to welcome us, telling ns we must stay ’midst lovely California,
and make it our home. The way seemed made so smooth, and the
prospects so cheering. You hardly know what a mighty contest has
gone on between the qualities of good and evil for the past ten years;
it is something more than we can tell; and when you learn what a
wonderful providence has been over all, you will know how much these
spirits mean it, and how much I have struggled in the cause, and
defended its principles. I have had all this to go through, like the
pioneers of old. I have had to root out the ground in which has been
planted the most noisome weeds. When we entered California Spirit-
ualism stank in the nostrils of the people; the powers of darkness had
exerted such sway that our work had to be done over again; and again
I was on the pedestal of power, and had the largest hall in that great
city. I spoke to poor and rich. Thousands of these knew nothing of
that afflatus of the angels knocking at the door. It was a strong tempta¬
tion to be the priest and minister of the people. If you could Know the
unrest of these weary feet when out of harness, you will feel sympathy
when I say I sit down among friends, and comparatively in' the last
place in their service. The same voice has spoken to me for the last
20 years—always in monition.
I felt little temptation to come—so many voices were urging me to
stay. But my erratic movements were guided, and I saw that I and my
husband must cross 7,000 miles of ocean to test the friendship and
opinion of strangers. I had nothing but the same whispers in silent
monition, and the pleadings of the unseen world to urge me on, and all
that remains to memory is the irresistible potency of the masters whom
I have served and tested, and by their voice and command I am among
you to-night. For their sakes I have risked all possibilities to be here.
The result I cannot predict, but from my spiritual experiences of the
past, I know—I feel that good will follow my steps if I sow the seed
faithfully. I know I must pluck up that seed to see bow fast it is grow¬
ing, but I shall distribute it broadcast, and look confidently for a good
harvest; and whenever I find myself standing alone—whether I find a
host to help me or not—my duty will be the same; and as a faithful
servant—devoted only to those whose purpose it is to call to the light
the great masses—I stand before you to-night, and gladly clasp hands;
but in my resolution to do the work only of my master, none can help
or hinder me. But I ask you to do your best to help me, as one of that
band of pioneers who need so much help in the direction in which they
are labouring. You can scarcely guess what a task it is —how
stupendous a work it seems going before the masses without a creed
to offer them. Nine-tenths of our fellow-creatures do not believe at
all in the existence of the unseen world, and yet that it does exist is a
demonstrable fact. My life has been dotted over with many strange
events which have never come before the world, I have experiences of
most marvellous escapes, in some of which I have almost stood on the
verge of the grave. There is a process of lynching in America, which
you will know as “ tar and feathersbut I have had Judge Lynch
at my feet, and I am now here because I have trod in spiritual paths,
and yielded to spiritual guidance. When I have looked back I have
felt strange imaginings, and have wished that I was back with loving
friends in San Francisco and the United States. When this darkness
and imagery comes over me I feel ashamed to own it, but I dare to own
it, and disown it; and in weal or woe I am here to work amongst you ;
and when the field is open, be sure I shall be ready to do your and their
work as far as the spirits and Spiritualism is concerned.
Mrs. Britten then sat down amidst applause, and the company were
invited by Mr. Terry to adjourn to the anteroom for refreshment, and
a most social and pleasant hour was passed amongst the Mends as¬
sembled. The proceedings closed about eleven o'clock.
Dr. J. M. Peebles visited Newfoundland on his way back to the
United States, and says that so far as he could ascertain there are at
present no Spiritualists in the island.
The Spirit World.—Not the least among the many reasons for
holding by our faith in the spirit-world as the world of causes is this—
that it supplies the key to some of the darkest problems that ever dis¬
turbed the heart or mind. It gives unity and direction to all forms of
being; it explains the “ stream of tendency ” that works for “ righteous¬
ness ” by working for perfection through personal or structural
development; it explains those mysterious exceptional pulsations or
overflowings of vitality that have resulted in what are called miracles,
and that looked so uncouth or absurd as lawless interferences; it
suggests that nothing is high or low, great or small, to the infinite
Power in whom all things live and move and have their being; it makes
for ever antiquated the distinction between natural and supernatural,
and presents the inspiration of the ever-living Spirit as a permanent
means of intercourse between the human and the divine; it shows us
all things as moving on to vaster, completer, diviner life; it interprets
all the religions of the world, and reveals their source in the struggling
soul, in its yearnings after the infinite and eternal; it gives the key to
the history of the world, justifies the martyrs sacrifice and the con¬
fessor's warfare, and enthrones justice to every living thing as the
supreme law of the universe.—J. Fage Hopps,
June 21, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
299
A HAUNTED HOUSE IN DUBLIN.
Miss E. Owens Blackbubne some time since wrote a ghost story,
which was published in The Argosy, about a haunted house in Dublin.
She says that the main facts are perfectly true. The narrative sets
forth that the house was taken by Colonel Comyers, and one night when
nobody was in it but his wife and her infant children, the doors between
the drawing-room and the nursery, two flights higher up, were left
open, so that Mrs. Comyers could hear every sound. The evening was
fast closing in, and she experienced a strange feeling of loneliness, and
began to regret her sudden impulse to allow both servants to go out.
She laid down the book she had been reading, and presently one of the
children gave a cry.
The mother started from the couch where she was reclining, and was
about to go up to the nursery, when hurried footsteps on the stairs
struck upon her ear.
“ Oh, 1 need not go,’* she said to herself; (< I suppose cook has stayed
at home after all, and having by this time reached the door, she
indeed saw by the waning light the figure of an elderly woman turning
the landing of the flight opposite to her. Mrs. Comyers returned to her
sofa; but the child's crying did not cease, and as she listened it
increased from a whining cry to a wail of terror. In alarm she started
up and ran to the nursery. The eldest boy, a child of three years old,
was sitting up in bed, shneking; but the cook was nowhere to be seen.
In vain Mrs. Comyers tried to pacify the child. “ Freddy,” she
asked, "did not cook come up to you?”
But the child only sobbed the more convulsively, so much so that the
mother refrained from asking any further questions. Softly singing to
him, he was soon asleep again, and she stole quietly from the room. It
was almost dark, yet she distinctly saw, walking a few steps before her,
the figure of the woman which she yet believed to be the cook.
*' Why, cook, I thought you had gone out with the nurse.”
The figure had just reached the bottom of the flight of stairs; it turned
slowly round, revealing the face of an old woman with a white cap-
border closely crimped around her puckered-up, leering face. A gruesome,
weird light seemed to surround her, so that Mrs. Comyers distinctly
saw the shrivelled lips move, the bleared eyes gleam; and the shaky,
skinny hand, which was raised and shaken menacingly at her. The
figure then turned and ran swiftly down the stairs.
For a moment Mrs. Comyers was frightened; but, girding up her
courage, she blamed herself for giving way to nervousness—per¬
suading herself that it must be some person engaged by the cook.
She walked slowly down the stairs, her heart beating violently, and
called out, courageously—
" My good woman, who are you, and what is your business here ? ”
For answer, a chuckling laugh resounded throughout the echoing old
house. The clatter of many feet was heard upon the stairs; still, the
brave little woman hardly quailed. But what was she to do ? She was
too terrified to venture after the figure. Just then, there was a knock
at the hall door, and, with a sense of relief she hastened down to open
it. The two women-servants entered.
" Cook," said Mrs. Comyers, " did you leave any one in the house
during your absence ? ”
** No, madam.”
*' Well, you had better go and look in the kitchen, for some woman
went down the stairs just now.’’
Lights were speedily procured, and every inch of the basement storey
was unavailingly searched. The doors were then secured, and as Mrs.
Comyers saw the servants were rather frightened, she wisely refrained
from entering into any particulars concerning either the manner of the
figure, or the strange noises which she had heard.
The next day she related the circumstance to her husband, who
laughed at her nervous fancies, and practically suggested that a close
eye be kept on the area gate. The weeks flew by, and the affair seemed
to be almost forgotten, until one evening, as Colonel and Mrs. Comyers
sat alone in the dining-room, the sound of many footsteps was heard in
the drawing-room overhead, and a plaintive air was played upon the old
spinnet. They listened, amazed for a minute, and at length Mrs.
Comyers said»
" Henry, I am sure it is that—that thing 1 ”
“ You little goose I ” he exclaimed, laughing. " Stay where you are,
and I’ll go and see.”
He bounded up the stairs—there was a hurried shuffling of feet; the
music ceased, and he soon returned. The scene he had witnessed he
could not relate to his nervous, delicate wife. Therefore, to avoid being
questioned, he said, with an assumption of gaiety—
" Mabel, congratulate me! I have at last seen your mythical old
woman! ”
Mrs. Comyers shivered, and nestled into her husband’s sheltering
arms, as she whispered, faintly," Yes, I know yon have seen her, for I
saw her go before yon out of the room.”
They could not account for the phenomenon, and naturally were
diffident about mentioning it to anyone. Thus the time passed on until
Christmas.
The narrative in The Argosy (May 5, 1675), goes on to state that
about five o’clock one afternoon, a nephew of Colonel Comyers followed
the same apparition upstairs, and into the drawing-room, where the
following scene met his eye:—
On the polished oaken floor near the fireplace lay the body of a young
and beautiful foreign-looking woman, richly dressed. There were
wounds about her neck, half concealed by her long raven-black hair. A
tall, dark-complexioned man stood near, holding a long, thin Venetian
stiletto, whilst beside him stood the old woman, who laughed a fearful
laugh, as she spurned the body with her foot.
As she laughed the vision faded, and Val Wycherley left the drawing¬
room, uneasy for his brain. At the door he was met by Mrs. Comyers,
who insisted upon his coming down to see her pretty dinner table.
Colonel Comyers was also one of the privileged, and the proud young
housekeeper unlocked the dining-room door, when lo ! all the exquisite
old china and glass lay in fragments upon the floor! The tablecloth
was pulled away, and all the pretty decorations ruthlessly destroyed!
In a recess near the fireplace stood a dark, foreign-looking man and the
old woman, both of whom laughed devilishly, and then vanished ! The
scene was witnessed by the three. Mrs. Comyers fainted in her husband’s
arms. A serious nervous illness followed, and as soon as it was
practicable she was removed from the house.
Val Wycherley recounted his experiences in the drawing-room, and
Colonel Comyers admitted that he had witnessed the same scene. Of
course they left the house, but refrained from making the reason
public, beyond telling the proprietors, who, naturally, did not credit it.
The main facts of the preceding story are perfectly true, and were
related to the writer by Mrs. Nugent’s daughter, the present proprietress
of the ill-fated house. E. Owens Blackbubne.
' A NEW BOOK ON SPIRITUALISM.
BT WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
After ten years unceasing investigation of Spiritualism,
by close examination of its facts, and the subsequent drawing
of deductions from them, as well as by collecting informa¬
tion for The Spiritualist from its best writers all over the
world, I have resolved to bring out a book on the subject.
Since Mr. Yarley first drew my attention to Spiritualism
until about two years ago, I usually attended two, or three,
or sometimes four seances per week, perhaps 1,000 or 1,500
in all, in order to gain practical knowledge, but within the
last two years more of my attention has been given to im¬
proving the literature of Spiritualism. The object of the
present notice of the forthcoming book is to make known
that I wish to bring it out sufficiently supported by sub-
iii scription to at least clear its expenses directly it is
published. It will be in two volumes at ten shillings each ;
the first volume I expect to issue at the beginning of
next winter, and the second volume some time in the
course of the year 1879. I wish friends to enter their names
for from one to ten or even twenty copies of each volume, to
be paid for on delivery, and all who order five or more shall
be supplied with them at seven shillings each. If I know
beforehand that the work will be well supported, it will
necessarily be an encouragement not to spare expense in
bringing it out, and it is of advantage to the movement that
its books shall be of as high a quality as possible. I wish it
to be understood that all support extended to the first volume
is intended also to be given to the second, that there need be
no repetition of this notice, nor of the drawing up of a second
list of names. The book will contain the best certificates as
to the reality of each class of manifestations dealt with, so
in this respect will be of special value for placing in public
libraries and in the hands of disbelievers.
88, Great Russell-street, London, Jane 19th, 1878.
There has been some response to the suggestion of Mr. C. C. Massey,
of The Temple, as to the circulation of Psycography, because of the
public advantages to be derived therefrom. Others who desire to take
part in the work should say so at once.
By an advertisement in another column it will be seen that the friends
of Mr. Eglinton, the medium, are getting up a testimonial to him before
he leaves for South Africa, and many of those who have had good test
stances with him will no doubt subscribe.
East Riding Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.—A new
society with the foregoing title has been formed in Hull, under the
presidency of Mr. Thomas Thelwall. Mr. George E. Harrisson is the
secretary. Its chief object, as its name denotes, is to give facilities to
inquirers into Spiritualism, but it will also take active steps to make
known some of the religious aspects of Spiritualism. The nucleus of a
library has been formed, chiefly owing to the energy of Mr. J. Bland.
Communications intended for the secretary should be addressed to him
at 2, Caroline-street, Hull.
Opening of a New Hall for Spiritualistic Services in Maccles-
fielix—On Wednesday, June 12th, a newly built hall was opened in
Great King-street, Macclesfield, and the edifice is to be devoted to the
use of the local Spiritualists’ Society. The hall is capable of accom¬
modating upwards of two hundred people; it is neatly and substantially
built, and is in every way adapted to its purpose. The opening services
commenced with a tea party, at the close of which a public meeting
was held. Mr. E. Rogers, the president of the society, occupied the
chair. Addresses were delivered by the chairman; Messrs. Colville,
Morse, and Wallis, trance mediums; and by Mr. J. Lamont, of Liver¬
pool ; Mr. J. Hartley, of Hyde ; and Mr. Bancroft, of Oldham. Several
ladies and gentlemen contributed vocal and instrumental music during
the evening. The hall has been erected at the sole cost of Mr. E.
Hammond, a prominent and active worker in Macclesfield, to whose
zeal much credit is due.
300
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 21, 1878.
« PKOOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.”
Below are extracts from the work by Mr. Epes Sargent, entitled TAe
Proof Palpable of Immortality
The soul which has had enough divine intelligence to prepare for
itself a body in this world may he trusted to have ready a fitting sub¬
stitute when death loosens the physical tie.
Should science do what Strauss wildly supposes it may yet do—
achieve the creation of a man—it would still be utterly impotent to
explain the origin and nature of mind and matter, and to answer the
questions why and whence ?
“ Is it not in the most rarified gas, in the most imponderable fluids,”
asks Kardec, “ that industry finds its most powerful motors?” What is
there, then, strange in admitting that a spirit, by the aid of his spirit-
body, can raise a table ?
Mozart was probably a musical medium. His aptitude is inexplicable
except on the spiritual hypothesis. He himself has said of his musical
ideas, “ Whence and how they came, I know not, nor can I force them.
Those ideas that please me I retain in my memory.”
The contradictory character of the communications from spirits is a
stumbling-block to many. u Why do spirits talk common-place and tell
fibs?” we are asked; and the reply is, “ Perhaps to show us that they
carry with them their mortal traits, and that the transition to a spiritual
state leaves their individuality intact.”
The same motive that would keep us from studying the infinite ought
to deter us from studying the finite, since the infinite is everywhere in¬
volved in it, and both are, in themselves, inscrutable. In every bud
there is a mystery. Nothing, in its essence, can be known. The growth
of a blade of grass is as unintelligible to us as the existence of a Supreme
Being.
To refuse to look into the strange and incredible is to neglect often¬
times the most precious opportunities of discovery. Hypotheses that
have been jeered at as wild and monstrous by practical men have been
a clue to the grandest results. It has frequently needed a large amount
of credulity to persist in experiments which, in their success, have con¬
tributed largely to human welfare.
If, as Liebig, Dumas, and other chemists have asserted, all plants
and animals are solidified air, why may not all matter be the product of
solidified forces, having their origin in the essence and ultimate reason
of things—in that force and necessity which derive all their virtue from
the Divine Idea ? This is no fanciful inquiry; its practical interest
and importance are brought nearer to us every day by the advance of
science.
If a materialised spirit—by which I mean a spirit animating a visible,
tangible body—can make the matter thus embodied dissolve and then
at once reappear by an effort of the will, it is not difficult to conceive
that the universe itself may be a concretion of forces, the trunk-force of
which is in the Divine Idea.
Melancthon says:—“ I have myself seen spirits, and I know many
trustworthy persons who affirm that they have not only seen them, but
carried on conversations with them.” Luther bears testimony equally
strong to the existence of the departed in spiritual forms; so do Calvin,
Knox, Wesley, Oberlin. St. Augustine mentions saints by whom he
was visited, and states that he himself had appeared to two persons who
had known him only by reputation. At another time he appeared to a
famous teacher of eloquence in Carthage, and explained to him several
most difficult passages in Cicero’s writings.
The science that rejects the alliance which modern Spiritualism offers
is superficial and incomplete, and must continue to grope in darkness
whenever it would approach those questions which relate to a future
life and the divine spirituality of the cosmic principle.
Spiritualism must exercise an unfailing influence for good through the
affections. Let a man or a child be thoroughly convinced that the
deceased mother or father he reverently loves is living a more intense
life than ever, and can read his every thought and scan his every act,
and such a conviction must have a restraining influence upon him,
when tempted to evil; an encouragement for him, when incited to some
act of self-sacrifice or generous daring. The knowledge that we think
and act in the presence of a cloud of witnesses, to whom our very
thoughts are as legible as our deeds, must have an influence upon us
for good.
Being a demonstration of the continuous life of man through the
association of a spirit body, perfect in all its parts, with the material
body, Spiritualism has manifestly as intimate a relation as any fact of
our mortal existence can have to natural morality; for it is as much
related to the present as manhood is related to youth, or old age to man¬
hood. It illustrates the laws that govern the relations of human life,
because it explains innumerable occult facts in human history, throws
a flood of light on psychological questions, and has a most direct
practical bearing on our habits of thought, our affections, and our
hopes. A moral science, in no wise based on spiritual facts, would be
as imperfect as a science of physiology that did not recognise the brain
and the nervous system.
It is not true that the intelligence exhibited by the supposed spirit is
always measured by that of the medium. The instances to the contrary
are innumerable. Witness the case of Mrs. Fox-Jencken’s infant boy,
less than six months old. Among the Camisard prophets (1686—1707)
were many infant trance mediums, who spoke in language altogether above
their capacities. We hear of a boy, fifteen months old, who spoke in good
French, “as though God were speaking through his mouth.” Jacques
Dubois says hehas seen more than sixty children between three and twelve
years of age who exhibited similar powers. “ I knew at Tyes,” says
PierreCharman, “a man whose little boy, only five years old, prophesied,
predicted disturbance in the church, exhorted to repentance, and always
spoke in good French.” The annals of witchcraft are crowded with
similar phenomena, perfectly well authenticated.
Thoroughly acquainted with the spiritual phenomena of his day, and
j 11 of antecedent times, Bacon teaches unequivocally the doctrine of the
| r i spiritual body and of the threefold nature of terrestrial man. He says :
1 (| “ But how the compressions, dilatations, and agitations of the spirit,
| | which, doubtless, is the spring of motion, should guide and rule the
I | i corporeal and gross mass of the partsr has not yet been diligently
| (| searched into and treated.” “ And no wonder,” he adds, “ since the
ifi sensitive soul itself,” by wliich he means the spirit-body, “ has been
| (i hitherto taken for a principle of motion, and a function, rather than a
| j! substance. But as it is now known to be material, it becomes necessary
i|| to inquire by what efforts so subtle and minute a breath can put such
i 11 gross and solid bodies in motion.” “ The spirit of which we speak,”
I (| continues Bacon, “is plainly a body, rare and invisible, quantitative,
111 real, notwithstanding it is circumscribed by space.”
! ! THE PASSAGE OF NEEDLES THROUGH THE HUMAN
! | BODY.
j | The vagaries of needles which have been introduced in the body and
I (i have escaped immediate removal, have in all ages, remarks the Lancet,
| | j attracted the attention of collectors of the marvellous in medicine,
j 11 Hildanus related an instance of a woman who swallowed several pins,
I (| and passed them six years afterwards; but a more remarkable instance
j | j of prolonged detention was lately recorded by Dr. Stephenson, of
I 11 Detroit—that of a lady, aged seventy-five, who last year passed, after
| ( some months’ symptoms of vesical irritation, a pin which she had
i | swallowed while picking her teeth with it in the year 1835, forty-two
| ( years previously. This curious tolerance of such foreign bodies exhibited
( by the tissues is often observed in lunatic asylums. Mr. Silvey recorded
| some years ago the case of a woman who had a penchant for pins and
( needles so strong that she made them, in effect, part of her daily diet,
(| and after her death fourteen or fifteen hundred were removed from
II various parts of the body. Another case, almost as striking, has been
(| recorded by Dr. Gillette, that of a girl in whom from time to time
(j needles were found beneath the skin, which they perforated, and were
II removed by the fingers or forceps. Concerning the way in which they
I had got into her system no information could be extracted from her.
| j She was carefully watched, and in the course of eighteen months no less
| j than 320 needles were extracted, all being of the same size. Most
(| were black and oxidised, but some had retained their polish. The
11 majority were unbroken. They passed out of various parts of the body
| ] above the diaphragm at regular intervals, but in a sort of series, and
II always in the same direction. Most escaped in the region of the left
11 nipple, and a few escaped in the arm, axilla, thigh, temple, and cheek.
11 Sometimes several passed out of the same opening. The largest number
(i which escaped in a single day was sixty-one. A curious phenomenon
| preceded the escape of each needle. For some hours the pain was
i severe, and there was considerable fever. She then felt a sharp pain,
( like lightning, in the tissues, and on looking at the place at which this
| pain had been felt, the head of the needle was generally found projecting.
( The needles invariably came out head foremost. No bleeding was
( occasioned, and not the least trace of inflammation followed. The
11 doctor in attendance extracted 318. They were sometimes held firmly,
(i and seemed to be contained in a sort of indurated canal. It was con-
(j jectured that they had been swallowed with suicidal intentions ; but, on
11 the other hand, the way in which the needles escaped in series, and
11 their direction with the head outwards, suggested that they had been
(| introduced through the skin. That little weight is to be attached to the
11 place at which the needles escape as proof of their mode of introduction
(i is evident from a case recorded by Villars of a girl who swallowed a
(| large number of pins and needles, and two years afterwards, during a
11 period of nine months, 200 passed out of the hand, arm, axilla, side of
(j thorax, abdomen, and thigh, all on the left side. The pins, curiously,
> I escaped more readily and with less pain than the needles. Many years
11 ago a case was recorded by Dr. Otto, of Copenhagen, and mentioned at
(i the time in the Lancet, in which 395 needles passed through the skin of
) | an hysterical girl, who had probably swallowed them during an hysterical
11 paroxysm; but these all emerged in the lower regions, below the level
(! of the diaphragm, and were collected in groups, which gave rise to
) | inflammatory swellings of some size. One of these contained 100
) needles. Quite recently Dr. Bigger described before the Society of
\ Surgery of Dublin a case in which more than 300 needles were removed
) from the body of a woman who had died in consequence of their
| presence.   ^
j A devoted wife will always speak plainly but kindly to her husband.
| Here is a case in point: “ When I die,” said a married road-cleaner, “ I
| want to go where there is no snow to shovel.” His wife said that she
| i presumed he would.
| j “It is easy in the world to live after the world’s opinion; it is easy
(i in solitude to live after your own; but the great man is he who in the
11 midst of the crowd keeps with perfect sweetness the independence of
11 solitude.”—Emerson.
(i “ Thebe are three things to which man is born—labour, and sorrow,
11 and joy. Each of these three things has its baseness and its nobleness.
11 There is base labour, and noble labour. There is base sorrow and noble
(| sorrow. There is base joy, and noble joy. But you must not think to
(| avoid the corruption of these things by doing without the things them-
11 selves. Nor can any life be right that has not all three. Labour with-
(i out sorrow is base. Sorrow without labour is base. Joy without labour
(| is base.”—Ruskin,
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J.—The National Association of Spiritualists and The Spiritualist newspaper
are not connected with each other, beyond our inserting advertisements of
the Association at very moderate rates, and taking out nearly all the sum
due annually for advertising, by renting the two smallest rooms on the
premises. See the notice printed regularly at the top of next advertise¬
ment page.
June 21, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon, Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com-
mumcation should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BT ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „ .
The Seer. „ III. „ .
The Reformer. „ IV. „ .
The Thinker. ,. V. .. . . ,
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia: Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician : or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims .
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology . .
Morning Lectures ....
*. d.
16 0
7 6
7 0
7 6
7 0
7 0
7 0
7 0
6 0
7 0
2 0
3 0
3 0
7 0
3 0
7 0
2 0
3 0
7 0
0 0
7 6
7 0
6 0
6 0
2 0
3 0
7 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Thb Spiritualist Newspaper . .20
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
TheRomantlcHistory of Buddha (Beal) •. . . . 12 0
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 10 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . , 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 0
Awas-i-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation oi the United States of America
at Constantinople , , . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale , 10 0
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, hut also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id, post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various witnesses—Mediumshlp of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—^Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Hei bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony oi
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—Tne Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Bane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revu. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God-
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections ta.
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XvlII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London: W. II. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-steeet.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and nanasomely bound In one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1809 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnage’paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, 10s,
Loudon: W. H. Harrison 33, Great Russell-street, W.0.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo.’Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new hook by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPHY,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins,
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayeuis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation oi
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hoops, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—^Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—^Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood. J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place In public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writlng-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”), and Is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Eichmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treheme)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma VonVay (Countess
Wurmhrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—‘‘Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D .—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modem SpirituaUsm. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci, Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “M.A, Oxon."
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow's Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated ftom Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and* the Voles of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred liusse
Wallace, F.R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, W.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing Instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ’’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will he
deluged with useful information, and snob a number ot
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic,consequently irreligious age.’
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
June 21, 1878.
A
H
NEW ERA.
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
LORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
Por the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use END’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Sibmach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END'S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which'
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. END’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
C'NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes
JL “Since I have used END’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
BY WILLIAM H. HABRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
■ Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji AF Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Oaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
‘All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we And verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.— A Lady writes: —
I “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it: the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OOGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A'
GENERAL LVXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains ail
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons ihe blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates ft is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.   
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the bicod free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health.it is unequaUed; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease
‘ ‘ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
erless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
out very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel if a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. — I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 80,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
/CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is mtfrked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent 'or Pcwm-PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of tbe most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature,
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent. ... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is'well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
- •“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy iMys, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feehng which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac wag
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous,...
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit. . .. The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
Of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [A./i. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but ihe members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.} ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is "bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late "Wit. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had hound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in YariousWays—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions m
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S ilritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IXAction of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbacn—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—^Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of th
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cleyrg-
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: "W, H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, "W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Bevbbidgh & Go., at the
Holbom Printing "Works, Fullwood’u Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
