Registered as a Newspaper.
rjuttw^cfeb Mill Spiritualism iu feat iritaiu.
No. 392.—(Yol. XYL—No. 9.) LONDON : FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEYOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H; P. BLAVA.TSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £ 1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to 11 The Proprietors of 1 The TheosophistJ ” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).'
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
11 Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the. mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with having written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The Spintualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Eeb. 27, 1880.
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). ' From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). Erpm the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth Svo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention,
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W-
Crown 8vo., pp. 156, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its hearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . .His eclecticism has led him to recognize philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Tall Mall
Gazette.
London : Teubner and Co., Ludoate Hill.
32 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 3d.
RATIONALE OE SPIRITUALISM.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane.
Just Published.
TEE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored simply by
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.
Any form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (corner of Moscow-road and
Hereford-road), Bayswater, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MR. W. EGLINTON,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT,
LONDON, S.W.
Notice of removal to si,
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily;
and eight to ten. Evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS7wOODF6RDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Days
and hours of business—Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
4, Keppell-strcet, Russell-squarc, W.C.
/Characters faithfully
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone- road, Earls-court, S.W.
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sanxom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies tree.
T UNACY LAW REFORM
J J ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemcrs-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 pm. Saturdays 1 to 2
The Eleotbio Light of the New Era, or
THE GOSPEL OF SPIRITUALISM,
By the Rev. W. Stoddabt, B.A.,
A lecture delivered before the Newcastle Spiritual
Evidence Society, printed by request.
Single copies 2d. each, post free 2|d.
One dozen Is. 9d. ,, 2s.
Con be had of H. A. Kersey, 4, Islington Terrace,
Newcastle-on-Tyne j or Heavisides, Printers, Stockton-
on-Tees,
gpld g, A? g|M3
% of % JPijogttjos of i|g jigtgttflf anil of ^jiitjiltmltsnt,
No. 392.—VOLUME SIXTEEN; NUMBER NINE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2 7 th, 1880.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist :—
His Imperial Highness Ni-|
cholas of Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess!
of Caithness
The Baroness Von Vay, Coun¬
tess Wiirmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof,
St. Petersburg
Sir Charles Ishah, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Calder, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Oloott, President
of the Theosophical Society of j
New York
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne)
Captain John Jambs
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,1
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jenckbn, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
J. T. Mabkley, Esq.
I John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
India
I William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Marry at
! Madame Isabel de Steiger
[Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holm-
fbld (Holstein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adelberth de Bourbon
M. L. P. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R S.
C. F. Varley, Esq.,C.E., E.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Fbiesk, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. George Wyld
j W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.,
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
i M (Cantab)
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martueze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
I William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
|H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 33, Museum-street, London; 6, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocoa, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 61. East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Manner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S. ; JReligio-JPhilosophieal Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear¬
ney street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seyenth-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
THE EFFICACY OF PRAYER.
BY C. C. MASSEY.
An interesting meeting was held on Monday
K the 9th Feb., at the studio of Mr. E. Clifford,
j>! 52, Wigmore Street, London, for the dis-
j cussion of the relative u power over evil,,, of
I such influences as “ Philanthropy, Art, Spirit-
Id ualism, Conversion, Roman Catholicism, Tem-
| perance.” The speakers were confined to
!)! facts, and were listened to with deep attention
|)| by a large company. Mr. Clifford himself
K| related to us the following fact, which I am
| | able to give in his own words, as he has kindly
bj repeated it to me in a letter.
“A young man named about 30, came
K into an Evangelistic Hall, at the East end of
London, nearly a year ago. He was in such
jSj a state of disease from drink that he could not
l<| even wash his face, and was unfit for human
1)1 society. He had signed the pledge (he said)
bl nearly a hundred times. He believed in the
m Power of God, to forgive and convert him, and
I getting alone he prayed God to convert him,
| j! but he said, 1 It is no use my being converted
Id unless Thoutakest away the appetite, for I am
I so weak and unable to resist the temptation.’
!)j From that hour he has had no appetite for
I drink, and his happy and healthy appearance
|>| testifies to the result of the change. He earns
i nearly £2 a week. I can easily let you
|s | question him if you like.”
That strong religious excitement should for
!> a short time overpower an evil tendency, with-
| out supposing any superhuman agency, is of
i course easily conceivable. But that this m-
fluence should permanently eradicate such an
I appetite as that for drink in a confirmed
| drunkard, thus not only enabling him to over-
; come the temptation, but removing the tempta-
| tion itself, appears to me out of the question.
We need not, however, suppose what no doubt
| would be the belief of the man himself, and
Id probably of most religious communities, that
1^1 there was here a direct interposition of the
| > I power of the Most High.
Spiritualism enables us to dispense with
hj these anthropomorphic conceptions which are
I also so displeasing to philosophy. But it is
98 THE SPIRITUALIST Feb 27, 1880.
probable that intense faith and enthusiasm
give spirits power even over our very organisa¬
tion, and thus effect permanent results which
these transient emotions—transient, that is, in
effective intensity,—are unable of themselves
to produce.
Temple, February 11th, 1880.
TREATMENT OF SPIRITUALISM A TEST OF
CHARACTER.
BY THE REV. W. MI ALL.
(Concluded.)
The transition is easy from these—the
sincerely, though often unreasoningly pious—
to persons, who, whether pious or not, are
concerned for the integrity of historical
Christianity. That the alleged preternatural
occurrences, constituting a very large portion
of the history of Jesus of Nazareth, and in¬
timately associated with the rise and early
progress of his religion, have come to be either
denied or doubted, by an enormous propor¬
tion of its critics, whether by profession
Christian or otherwise, is undeniable. It were
perhaps impossible to find a single person
accustomed to habits of research, and possess¬
ing the smallest amount of mental independ¬
ence, whose ideas respecting these occurrences
have not been modified, and to a great extent
determined by modern criticism. I express
no opinion—this cannot be the place to do
so—on these questions.
I only suggest, that if the claims of Spirit¬
ualism can be established, a long array of
incidents set forth in the New Testament as
having actually transpired, but which recent
criticism has eliminated from such records as
are reliable, and to be literally interpreted,
will be restored to their place of honor, and
become invested with the greatest significance,
as constituting, to employ the illustration of a
profound essayist, the great bell of the
Universe, sounded by the Almighty, for the
purpose of calling attention to the great truths
of Christianity. For men then of learning
and insight into the nature and relations of
things, and who are concerned to establish
the reality of phenomena, asserted to have
occurred in the earliest Christian times, to
pooh-pooh the assertion of their daily re¬
production among ourselves, so proves that
they also are so being tyrannized over by the
prejudging spirit who holds sway in so many
minds, as to throw doubt upon the value of
all their other deliverances. Surely, it behoves
them, at whatever expenditure of time, or
Kj energy, or even of life, to run to earth this
ft] vile imposture, if such it be, or to admit and
ft | urge the claims of this greatest unveilment
Ijj of any age, if so it may be described.
There is another and rather numerous class
kj of forcible Feebles, to whom a passing reference
ft I may be desirable. They have given some
ftj slight attention to the subject. At first,
Kj indeed, they only smiled when indications of
ft] spirit agency were reported to them. u Nine
days’ wonders.” “Mere Will-o’-the-wisps, the
Kj account of which, is at certain seasons a God-
Id send to Editors, and the staple of agreeable
ftj gossip.” Persistency on the part of the
ft! assertors of the phenomena, however, together
|si with considerable curiosity, and it may be
Kj some degree of intelligent interest on their
ft] own part, induced them to read a little—
ft; most likely a very little—on the subject,
jSj to attend a few stances, and perhaps to
j<j describe themselves as enquirers or even in-
j j vestigators. “ Having no root in themselves,”
ft; i.e. having no appreciation, or perception even,
|d of the bearing of the whole subject on the
ft! dearest interests of all men, and therefore of
ft; the absolute supremacy of its claims on careful
ft and prolonged study, when patience was found
; to be needed, and difficulties and discourage-
kj ments presented themselves, they returned to
ftj their former attitude of indifference and
ft] neglect. Botli amusing and irritating is the
ftj self-satisfied air with which they attempt to
id justify their refusal to prosecute further
j)j enquiry. They have a store of common place
ft! objections, upon which they draw as oppor-
j<[ tunity serves or policy suggests: “ The
151 power of the human imagination is very great; ”
Id “ the senses are so easily imposed upon; ”
ftj “ Conjurors are exceedingly clever ; ” “ some
Kj mediums make a pretty good thing of it;”
Id “ reported impostures can’t be all false; ”
ft| “ love of prominence accounts for a good deal; ”
ft] “ what frivolities, what absurdities are a good
j<! many so called spirit communications! ” “ what
ft] say the majority of our scientific authorities
ft; and of our religious teachers ? ” “ How long
jd a time do honest enquirers remain simply
jd such, never arriving at conviction.” “You
ft yourself,” it has been said to me, “ what time
ft] you have bestowed on the matter; you are
ft; evidently not indisposed to become a pro-
I! nounced Spiritualist, yet you have seen
i nothing, know nothing that has availed fully
| to convince you,” &c., &c., &c. The salient
j points about all these wool-bag opponents,
ft| are their strange lack of earnestness, and their
j apparent ignorance of the fact that difficulties
THE SPIRITUALIST.
99
Feb. 27, 1880.
in the way of the perception of a truth are
generally in proportion to its yalue when
perceived, and of the related fact that dis¬
coveries in science upon which the most
important of results have been contingent, have
often been arrived at over obstacles apparently
insurmountable, and after experiments and
trials and disappointments innumerable and such
as have exercised the patience, not only of
individuals during a life time, but of many
generations of investigators. Perhaps to this
class of objectors it may be suggested that
they really are not made of the stuff of which
in this stage in its history, enquirers into
Spiritualism, require to be composed ; but
that whilst standing aside, modesty should in¬
duce them to be however shrewdly observant,
at least respectfully reticent.
Despite my expressed determination to leave
the representatives of the advanced thought
of the day in the hands of those more able to
cope with them, I cannot content myself with¬
out a very brief reference to persons who, if
not of them, are led and influenced by them,
and who seem to think that the principles they
profess, and the doctrines on which they insist,
are incompatible not only with a belief in the
truth of Spiritualism, but with a careful con¬
sideration of its claims. Is this really so?
What is there in the doctrine of evolution, what
in that of the unification and conservation of
force, what in that of the unknowablencss of
all that lies beyond the reach of our senses,
which renders a belief in the possible reality
of these phenomena, unworthy of a sound
mind, and therefore beyond the pale of objects
the examination of which is capable of being
vindicated and justified. Is it in the nature
of things impossible that the developement
of the human being should be perpetuated, that
even a refined materiality should be possessed
after the shuffling off of this mortal coil; or
that the transformation and transmission of life
power should go on, the vehicle of that life
having first been sublimated by a process which
is dissolution, but not destruction; or again
that the sphere of the knowable by sensuous
means is easier than is currently perceived,
including a region about which many have
dreamed and many babbled, but which it has
been reserved for these later days intelligently
to recognize? Here, as elsewhere, I ask only for
such fair and patient examination as would be
ungrudgingly bestowed upon what claimed to be
a new and strange scientific fact, asserted by
men worthy of respect and credence. To me
it seems that neglect to look at this matter,
;i and if it be a bubble to burst it, but if a reality
j to affirm it, and obtain, by whatever process, all
<| possible knowledge of it, is inconsistent with
U qualities which best entitle men of thought and
;| research to estimation in which every intelli-
gent and just man would desire to hold them.
And now I feel how many there are whose
c l treatment of Spiritualism is very suggestive as
>| to the distinguishing features of their character
((; to whom I have made no, or but very slight,
(\ allusion. There is the newspaper-article
(\ writer, whose first two or three sentences make
£ two things evident—that he has no personal
sj acquaintance with the subject, aud that for
?! knowledge he substitutes contempt and rancor-
pi ous hate. Then there is the reader of such
Sj article, gulled by it and its like, who exultingly,
jj and with an air of laughable self-satisfaction,
j| appropriates it, and is even quoting the smart
>| or would-be smart criticism of his exemplary
Jj God-parent. Again, there is the victim of the
I habit of suspicion. Forgetful of the proverb
|j that it is the 11 old contrabandist who makes the
• best custom-house officer,” he has an ear to
J catch every whisper of fraud, and a heart to
jj chuckle over it. Let there be a story of impos-
j ture, whether obvious or only apparent, on the
>j part of some well-known medium, and every
jj feature of his face says “ of course, of course;
q I knew it would so turn out—strange that
[I people can be so infatuated, so deluded.” Then
'j there is an objector of a different kind, with a
jj philosophic air, eyes half-closed and the comers
jj of his mouth drawn down—he conveys, as
?j indeed he wishes to convey, the idea that ho
£j u cares for none of these things.” The mere
jj playthings of children—facts only to fools, they
?j have not the power to interest him or disturb
>j his serenity. He knows a thing or two about
Jj the properties of the material, the pranks of the
cj imagination, the limits of the possible. Only
?! don’t trouble him, and you may amuse your-
J selves with as much of the ghostly as you
j please. Time fails me or I could tell of others
<j who from sheer timidity stop their ears and
j j avoid all talk on the subject. They are probably
Jj right in so doing. Ho one study is adapted to
| everybody, and those whoso cheeks pale, and
<j limbs tremble, and whole nervous systems
Jj become deranged, at the mere idea of the pre-
J| sence of an invisible departed one, had perhaps
<| better wait their own summons into the beyond
Jj region, for further light on this subject. They
Jj might else run the risk of mental aberration,
j and thus their adhesion and its consequences
j would be made an occasion of reproach. Once
j more, there arc those whose religious belief
100
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 27, 1880.
indispose, and indeed disqualify them for |j
approaching the subject. They believe not <
only in Almighty God, but in a devil who is <
almost Almighty, and attributing this work to \{
him, they naturally cry u avaunt ” to all its |<
expositors and advocates. Others there are |<
whose religious beliefs stand in the way of their I?
becoming candid enquirers into Spiritualism.
These, more rationally, though by no means is
with the full reasonableness which might at i
first seem to mark them, affirm that they have k
no oecassion for the facts and help of Spiritual- >
ism. On other grounds, they say they are con- s
fident of personal immortality, and what need <
they more ?
I desist,however. As certain persons are said
to behold in a crystal distant objects and events K
elsewhere transpiring, so I repeat, both Spirit- |c
ualists and anti-Spiritualists, by duly examin- $
ing in the one case their advocacy of Spiritualism, )
and in the other their opposition to it, may s
behold what manner of persons themselves are ; R
and such knowledge may be turned by them R
to valuable account, for whilst “the proper o|
study of mankind is man,” to accurate know- sj
ledge of human kind self-knowledge is essen- Iq
tial, the first step to it, its prime qualification. j)|
Were it not from fear of being sermonical, I R|
should conclude with a few hortatory sentences. Kj
I would find occasion for them in the too general | <;
misappreciation of the life that now is, and in |Jj
the inexpressible folly of either wasting energy
in the pursuit of a phantom, or of neglecting to Kj
employ it in the interests of a veritable object, Rj
the preciousness of which no language can jq
exaggerate. In the small space of time j)j
remaining, and to some of us it must be small Rj
indeed, we may yet do much that shall promote Rj
the world’s welfare through all coming time. j;j
By pureness, by knowledge, by long-suffering, Kj
by kindness, by love unfeigned, by the armour R j
of righteousness on the right hand, and on the R
left by evil report and good report, as deceivers R
and yet true, let us approve ourselves the men S
and women which the age requires, which the Rj
study of this subject especially demands, and Ri
which all posterity will have reason to regard j>j
as its best benefactors. It is surely a worthy Isj
ambition, to deserve that those who presently jq
will occupy the places we now fill, should say iq
concerning us.
11 Many loved Truth, and lavished life’s best oil
Amid the dust of books to find her,
Content at last, for guerdon of their toil,
With the cast mantle she had left behind her,
Many in sad faith songht for her,
Many with crossed hands sighed for her,
But these our brothers fought for her, [S
At life’s dear peril wrought for her,
So loved her that they’d die for her,
Tasting the raptured fleetness,
Of her divine completeness.
J. Russell Lowell.
THE MOHAMEDAN CONCEPTION OF
THE DEITY.*
To look at Mohamed’s idea of the Deity, there is
more in this of the potter that [shapes the clay, than of
the father tenderly watching over his children.
“ Mohamed conceived of god, as the Semitic mind has
always preferred to think of him : his god is the all-
mighty, the all-knowing, the all-just. Irresistible
power is the first attribute he thinks of: the lord of
worlds, the author of the heavens and earth, who hath
created life and death; in whose hands is dominion ;
who maketh the dawn to appear, and causeth the night
to cover the day; the great all-powerful lord of the
glorious throne. The thunder proclaims his perfection;
the whole earth is his handful; and the heavens shall be
folded together in his right hand,”
And so the “ throne verse —
“ God! There is no god but he, the ever-living and
ever-subsisting. Slumber seizeth him not, nor sleep.
To him belongeth whatever is in the heavens, and what¬
ever is in the earth. Who is he that shall intercede
with him, save by his permission? He knoweth the
things that have gone before and the things that folio w
after; and men shall not compass aught of his know¬
ledge, save what hewilleth. His throne comprehend-
eth the heavens and the earth, and, the care of them
burdeneth him not. And he is the high, the great.”
This power and wisdom is tempered with mercy.
“ God is the guardian over his servants; the shel-
terer of the orphan; the guide of the erring; the de¬
liverer out of affliction. In his hand is the good. He
is the generous lord, the gracious, the hearer, the near-
at-hand.”
Mohamed’s moral precepts embody the current
ethical sentiments of the Arabs, elevated and formalized
and made part of his severely simple, monotheistic view
of things. The duties of the Muslim, in addition to the
profession of the faith, are the stated repetition of
prayer; the giving of alms; the keeping of the fasts ;
if possible, the performance of the pilgrimage to Mecca;
and, above all, patient resignation to the will of God :
thus, in the second chapter of the Kuran,—
“ Your turning your faces in prayer towards the east
and west is not piety; but the pious is he who believeth
in God and the last day, and in the angels, and the
scripture; and who giveth money, notwithstanding his
love thereof, to relations and orphans, and to the needy
and the way-farer, and to those who ask, and for the re¬
demption of captives; and who performeth prayers, and
giveth the appointed alms, and those who perform their
covenants when they covenant, and the patient in ad¬
versity and affliction and in the time of violence. These
* A portion of a review in The Pioneer (Allahabad, December
25th, 1879,) of Mr, Lane’s Selections from the Kuran: Trubner
&Cq.
Fjbb. 27, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
101
are they who have been true, and these are they who
fear God.”
The connection of faith and duty is pointed out in
the ninety-third chapter of the Kuran. It is translated
by the editor :—
By the morning brightness,
And by the still of night,
The Lord hath not forsaken thee; neither hath he
hated thee;
And surely the future will be better for thee than
the present;
And thy Lord will give to thee, and thou wilt be
well-pleased.
Hath he not found thee an orphan, and sheltered
thee;
And he found thee erring, and guided thee;
And found thee needy, and enriched thee ?
Then, as to the orphan, oppress him not;
And as to him that asketh of thee, chide him not
away;
And as for the bounty of thy Lord, tell it then
abroad.
Lastly, the prophet’s promises of rest and pleasure
to the War-worac Bedawis and the gain-seeking and
pleasure-loving Arabs of the cities. It is not without
reason that Mohamed’s paradise has become a bye-word.
When the calamity shall come to pass,
There shall not be a soul that will deny its hap¬
pening.
It will be an abaser of some, and exalter of others;
When the earth shall be shaken with a violent
shaking,
And the mountains shall be crumbled with a
violent crumbling,
And shall become fine dust scattered abroad.
And ye shall become three classes:
And the people of the right hand—what shall be
the people of the right hand ?
And the people of the left hand—what the people
of the left hand ?
And the preceders, the preceders!
These shall be then brought nigh unto god
In the gardens of delight,—
A crowd of the former generations,
And a few of the latter generations,
Upon unwrought couches,
Reclining thereon, face to face.
Youths ever-young, shall go unto them round
about,
With goblets and ewers, and a cup of flowing wine.
Their heads shall ache not with it, neither shall
they be drunken;
And with fruits of the sorts that they shall choose,
And the flesh of birds of the kind they shall
desire.
And damsels, with eyes like pearls laid up,
We will give them as a reward for that which they
have done.
Therein shall they hear no discourse nor accusa¬
tion of sin,
But only the saying, “ Peace, peace.”
And the people of the right hand—what shall be
the people of the right hand?
They shall dwell among lote-trees without thorns,
And bananas loaded with fruit,
And a shade ever-spread,
And water ever-flowing,
And fruits abundant,
Unstayed and unforbidden;
And couches raised,
Verily, we have created them by a peculiar creation,
And have made them virgins,
Beloved of their husbands of equal age with them.
For the people of the right hand,
A crowd of the former generations,
And a crowd of the latter generations.
THE MESMERISING OF ANIMALS.
Strange stories reach us from India of the feats
performed by a native mesmeriser, named Buni, whose
mesmeric power would appear to be found quite
irresistible by the lower animals, upon which he
exclusively exerts it/ He gives seances, to which the
public are invited to bring all manner of ferocious and
untamable wild beasts, and, like the Ancient Mariner,
holds them with his glittering eye. In a few seconds
they subside into a condition of cataleptic stiffness, from
which they can only be revived by certain “ passes ”
which he solemnly executes with his right hand. An
account of one of these seances states that a snake in a
state of violent irritation was brought to Buni by a
menagerie proprietor, enclosed in a wooden cage.
When desposited on the platform it was writhing and
hissing fiercely. Buni bent over the cage, and fixed
his eye upon its occupant, gently waving his hand over
the serpent’s restless head. In less than a minute the
snake stretched itself out, stiffened, and lay apparently
dead. Buni took it up, and thrust several needles into
its body, but it gave no sign of life. A few “ passes ”
then restored it to its former angry activity. Sub¬
sequently a savage dog, held in a leash by its owner,
was brought in, and, at Buni’s command, let loose
upon him. As it was rushing towards him, bristling
with fury, he raised his hand, and in a second the
fierce brute dropped upon its belly as though stricken
by lightning. It seemed absolutely paralysed by some
unknown agency, and was unable to move a muscle
until released from the mesmerist’s spell by a majestic
wave of his hand.—Daily Telegraph, July 20th.
 ♦ —
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan informs us he is
writing a book to be entitled “ Experiences in Spirit¬
ualism.”
An extraordinary prize of 3000 francs has been
awarded by the French Academic des Sciences to Mr.
Crookes, F.R.S., in recognition of his recent discoveries
in Molecular Physics and Radiant Matter.
Mrs. Woodforde desires us to announce that she
and Mr. J. C. Husk are now holding their Wednesday
evening seances for physical manifestations, at 4,
Keppel Street, Russell Square, London.
Mr. W Eglinton, the medium, will leave London
next Monday for Leipzig, where he will give stances to
some of the Professors at the university. Afterwards
he will visit other cities on the continent. It is to be
hoped that he will refuse altogether to give cabinet
stances, and will sit only under test conditions.
Mrs. Hollis Billing.—Mrs. Hollis Billing, the
medium, left this country last week for America, bear¬
ing with her the good wishes of all who knew her.
Her mediumship was of a remarkable character, and of
especial interest to those who are studying the problem
of spirit identity. A little testimonial was given to her
before she left, and for Mrs. Billing’s sake it is to be
regretted that the one or two persons who got it up, did
not send a single word of information about it for the
readers of this journal, among whom Mrs. Billing has
so many friends.
102
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 27, 1880.
UNCONSCIOUS CEREBRATION.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, E.G.S., AUTHOR OF “ LETTERS TO
MISS MARTINEAU.”
Sir William Hamilton says very truly that
“what we are conscious of is constructed out
of what we are not conscious of,” therefore
unconscious cerebration is fundamental and
before conscious perception. Our ordinary
thinking then, is in fact inspiration formed
for us, and not by us; even the sense of effort
is not the effort itself, which is an unconscious
impulse of which we become conscious. The
idea that the mental state is the effort or will
itself, or the efficient power, is mere illusion;
as much so as that the fire is hot, the feel¬
ing in the fingers, or the pain iu the tooth.
Consciousness is the exponent of the under¬
lying ad ion, from which may come much we
may not comprehend, as in the dream, and
what may really have no definite meaning.
Sir Edwin Landseer painted a picture, he
called “ The Kind Star.” It was a female
figure or angel, with a star on the forehead,
decending to a dying stag ; but no one could
make out what it meant. Was it a Midsummer
Night’s Dream, or what ? So I made up my
mind to ask my old friend, the painter himself.
“ Well,” he replied, “I don’t exactly know.
I thought it a pretty idea anyhow, and that
it would make a pretty picture.” So poets
often are impressed to write good but unmean¬
ing lines, as in the case instanced in respect
to Coleridge. I myself have often half dream¬
ing, noted down what I thought a good idea,
and afterwards could see no meaning in it.
BouIogne-sur-Mer, France.
THE BLACK STONES OF DOLLICH.
BY J. A. CAMPBELL, B.A.
To Beauchamp Duff, Esq., of Hutton, I dedicate this in memory
of long ago.
Forgive, old friend, the faltering rhyme,
With which I seek to fan the flame,
And kindle into life again,
The Spirit of a better time.
Or has it faded with the day ?
The grand old day of tale and song,
Or rather only slumbered long,
To wake again as true a lay ?
Fain would I hold the latter true,
That for the grim destroyer Time,
The gate is barred to Fancy’s clime,
And that he dares not break it through.
■» k
S
Tis a legend vague of the olden time,
Something mysterious and partly true ;
Culled from aged lips in our Northern clime,
And bearing a charm for myself and you.
Though self-taught science may laugh in scorn,
And believe no more than its eye can see ;
Unheeding the silent witness borne,
By a world’s unwritten history.
Still in ev’ry age has the mind of man—
It may be tutored by none, save God—
Believed or dreamed, since the world began
That mystery shrouded the path he trod.
K: j& # *
if!
n # ‘
A castle stately and fair, and tall,
Crowning the brow of a lofty steep ;
Dark ivy climbs up its moss-grown wall,
And over its turrets grey lichens creep.
Our path lies up through the rugged glen,
Where the crags have assumed a fantastic shape,
As they tower aloft, in their massy strength :
Here mailed warrior—there grinning ape.
The last was the castle’s lady fair,
(As the ancient crones still love to tell);
Who was doomed that hideous form to wear,
By a spiteful saint at a holy well.
And there to the left, by the Devil’s Leap ;
So they call the rocks that o’erhang the pass,
I have searched for the legend that caused the nave,
But like many another ’tis gone, alas !
Let us pause and rest by that ruin grey,
Kildonan’s the name that they call it still;
And the people love to be brought and laid,
For their last long sleep, on the Holy Hill,
’Tis built in old Scotia’s ancient style,
With transepts short and a lengthy nave ;
You cannot get up to the altar step,
For the place is filled with many a grave.
And here it is that at midnight hour,
When all is still, on St. Kearnan’s day,
That ghostly priest and acolyte
Are seen all silent to take their way,
is I
To where, ’neath the lancet windows twain
Of old the great high altar stood ;
And sing a mass before the rood,
Of which one says he has caught the strain.
The words that he heard were naomb, naomb, *
And the voice was plaintive, and soft, and low,
The place where Old Donald first really learned
That strange wild sanctus, I long to know. .
* Holy, Holy, Holy, in Highland Gaelic.
Feb. 27, 1880.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
103
’Tis now some fifty years agone,
They were searching the records in Dollich Tower;
And they came on a writ of olden days,
The words of the Prophet of Oorrach Mor.
THE BLACK STONES OF DOLLICH.
One in burn,
One in tower;
Seek the third
In ladies’ bower.
Mystic Stones,
Dry in rain ;
Come fair weather,
Damp again.
Till are found
All the three;
In Dollich Tower,
No heir shall be.
They have searched the burn, they have searched the
tower,
But they vainly seek for the ladies’ bower.
Two stones are found, and laid by with care,
But where is the third ? Ah, where ? Ah, where ?
In Dollich Tower is a walled-up keep,
Its door unknown, its window barred ;
And doomed is he who dares disturb
The stillness of its phantom guard.
And cursed is she whom wedlock dire
Binds fast to him who dares the crime ;
She too shall share the demon ire,
And blindness shadow all his prime.
* * *
The three black stones are still unfound,
The built up tower as close walled round,
As fifty years ago.*
I know not what the truth may be,
The tale I tell as told to me,
And more I cannot do.
THE ALLEGED SUPERNATUEAL ADVENTURE j>
OF MARSHAL MAC MAHON.
We recently asked that the truth of some alleged K
supernatural experiences of Marshal Mac Mahon, which 15
had been quoted by The Theosophist (Bombay) from a k
Roman Catholic newspaper, should be inquired into by
some of our readers. The following letter from Miss j)
Douglas is the result:—
81, South Audley Street, Feb. \ith, 1880. k
“Deab, Mb. Habrison,—I sent to my sister, Mrs. j)
Douglas Bayley, now in Paris, the No. of The Spiritm- k
list in which appeared the marvellous adventure of |S
Marshal Mac Mahon, said to have been related by him- j)
self, begging her to inquire if there was any degree of (
truth in it.
“ She writes that there is none. Being well acquain- j)
ted with the Marshal’s Aide-de-Camp, the Baron de K
* Now January 1st, 1880.
Langsdorff, she spoke to him on the subj ect; he said
he could not believe there was any truth in the story,
or he would have heard of it; however, he took The
Spiritualist containing it to the Marshal, who declared
there was not the slightest foundation for it. Very
truly yours,
J. H. Douglas.”
 ♦ 
SPIRITUALISM IN EDINBURGH,
On Saturday evening last, a lecture was delivered by
Dr. Andrew Wilson, on “ The Ghosts of Science,” in
the Buccleuch Hall, attached to the Buccleuch Church,
Edinburgh. The lecture was one of a series in course
of delivery on Saturday evenings, on various subjects,
chiefly to engage the attention of the more thinking
portion of the working classes. The hall, which will
hold about 150 persons, was quite full.
The first portion of the lecture consisted of a simple
explanation of the action of the brain and nerve force,
and wherein consisted sensation and consciousness.
The speaker explained the action of rays of light upon
entering the eye, enabling us to perceive the various
objects around by impressions made upon the senses
from the outer world. He then dealt with disorders
and aberrations of the brain, quoting instances chiefly
from the works of Dr. Maudesley, on subjective
phenomena in which images and spectres are projected
from the thoughts. He also quoted the account of the
seeing of an apparition, given by Dr. Jessop, in the
Atheneeum and other papers a few weeks ago.
At the conclusion of the lecture, which was well
received, the Chairman, Mr. Watson, proposed a vote
of thanks, on seconding which the Rev. Dr. Adamson,
the Pastor of the Church, said, that it was with great
pleasure he did so, because of the plain way in which
the address had been given. He had previously had
no idea how Dr. Wilson was going to deal with his
subject, but he certainly thought that it would not be
out of place if he suggested that there were two sides
to most questions, and he thought such to be the case
in this instance, because he was informed there were
several millions, he could not say how many, he might
perhaps be accurate if he said about three millions of
persons in America who were believers in ghosts, and
were generally termed Spiritualists. Even in this
country there was a large number, including scientific
men. Besides, many manifestations and historical facts
had to be accounted for, and where the evidence of
several witnesses testifying to the same fact, was
brought to bear on the subject, it raised another side
of the question to that presented by Dr. Wilson, who
had chiefly dealt with abnormal conditions of the brain.
He, Dr. Adamson, threw out those suggestions for the
consideration of the young men present, many of whom
were apparently students at the University.
  + 
Carmpttbxm
[Great freedom is given to correspondents who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned > copies
should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.]
A DEATH WARNING.
Sir,*-—Twelve years ago, I had four brothers under
my professional care. One.of them, A. B., went out to
New Zealand, ten years since. When riding on horse¬
back in the open country, at twelve o’clock in the day,
104
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ebb. 27, 1880.
lie suddenly heard Ms Christian name twice loudly
called by his brother R. B., whom he had left in England.
He reined up his horse, turned round, and expected
to see his brother; but, to his great surprise, no one
was in sight; much perplexed, he continued his ride.
In due time, he received a letter from the widow of
his brother, R. B., informing him of the death of her
husband at twelve o’clock at night, on the same day
that A. B. had heard his brother calling Mm by name.
His death was rather sudden, from the rupture of a
bloodvessel in the brain; just before his death, he
suddenly called out Ms brother’s name, A., twice
repeated, precisely as A. B. had heard it. These were
his last words, as he immediately expired.
A very warm affection had always existed between
these two brothers, A. B. and R. B. R. B. had been
lying in an unconscious state for some time before,
and he startled his wife and those who were watching
Mm, by the sudden manner in which he called out
his brother A.’s name,
Medictjs.
Eebruary 17th, 1880.
SUNDAY MEETINGS.
Sir,—Would you kindly announce, that Mr. Morse
will give a trance address at Goswell Hall, 290, Gos-
well Road, E.C., on Sunday evening next, 29th February.
Subject, “ Spiritualism, its results and prospects.”
Service at 7 p.m. By doing so you will much oblige
the few earnest friends working in this movement.
H. J. Stevens, Sec.
“ Goswell Hall Sunday Meetings Committee,”
224, Albany Hoad, Camberwell, S.E.
CABINET SEANCES.
Sir,—In reference to the letter of aA Governess,”
on the subject of cabinet seances, of which she and
others disapprove, I desire to say that during the time
(about two years) I was in Newcastle-on-Tyne, I atten¬
ded on the average two or three seances per week, at
the Spiritual Evidence Society’s Rooms in Weir’s Court.
Scores of seances then (about three years ago) were
held, and the medium was sometimes Miss Fairlamb,
and at others Miss Wood. They were not placed in¬
side the cabinet, but sat outside, in the view of the
circle, wMch was composed in many cases of from
twenty to thirty people, and we obtained good physical
phenomena; sometimes materialisations, which we
saw gradually grow up to a full form; moveable, ani¬
mated, and apparently as human as any of the sitters
present. True we had to wait longer and patiently for
the phenomena to occur, but when they did they were
satisfactory, and I certainly see no objection to cabinet
seances while the medium is outside. But if we can get
the phenomena without a cabinet so much the better.
J. T. Rhodes.
26, West-Cross-Causeway, Edinburgh.
 + 
J. M. I., Birkenhead : No special photographic effect would he
obtained by substituting the mixed gases for common air.
If they were unmixed, the air in the upper part of the glass
vessel resting for a short time upon the carbonic acid gas
below,and the whole then photographed by transmitted light,
there might be a very feeble difference in the photographic
appearance of the two halves, because of the different re¬
fracting power of the two gases, but we think that the effect
would not be strong enough to be preceptible.
Erratum : Last week, owing to a printer’s error and to the
absence of the editor from London, two paragraphs—one
about Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, and another about profes¬
sional mediums—were run on into one, thereby somewhat
altering the sense of the sentences,
|
THE POWER OF EXORCISM.*
BY THE BARONESS ADELMA VON VAY (COUNTESS
•WURMBRAND.)
One day my husband and myself paid a visit
to some friends whose daughter was very ill.
The mother was in great distress, as the
doctors pronounced it to he epilepsy from
which her little one was suffering. Although
the mother neither believed in nor approved
of spirit communion, yet she was ready and
anxious to seek any relief available. We
immediately begged the advice and assistance
of our spirit-guardians, and the answer, in
writing through my band, came as follows:
u The child is the victim of a malignant
spirit : if this influence he removed her health
will he restored. She is of a highly sensitive
nature, possessed of a susceptible and ductile
nervous system, consequently the near prox¬
imity of this spirit is tormenting and injurious
to her. Only by means of exorcism or con¬
version of this influence will the child recover.
Draw the spirit here so that he may leave the
child and speak with you : we will allow him
to take our place. As this spirit, one Raimund,
is still hound to the earth, he will hearken to
the words of mortals and understand them
better than any of ours.”
We then besought the spirit, Raimund, to
leave the litte M. and to enter into communica¬
tion with us.
The pencil which I held was moved to and
fro, and after my hand had repeatedly traver¬
sed the paper, the following words were
written in large type.
“ I am here. I am still alive.”
Question. Why are you with M. ? Are
you not aware that your influence is injurious
to her ?
Raimund. I want a body. I can’t torment
anybody: I can’t hurt the child. She won’t
do my will and that annoys me.
Question. Come, pray with us.
Raimund. What do you mean ? I can’t
pray. Don’t you know I am a murderer?
Everything is dark: when I torment her it
relieves me. I have been dead a long time
and am steeped in iniquity. I come to you
as the personification of all that is vicious and
degraded j are you not afraid ?
Suddenly the movement of the pencil
changed, I felt much more composed, and the
spirit of the child herself took up the thread.
It was about ten o’clock in the evening,
and the child was asleep.
M. I wish to speak to Raimund. Raimund,
* Translated by Caroline Corner, from Studim uber die Oeisterwelt.
105
!Feb. 27, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
I will forgive all the suffering you have caused |Vj the mother to make ten mesmeric passes over
me, if only you will cease, and will spare my Kj the child.”
dear parents further anxiety and grief. Kj This transpired on August 27th, 1865. On
Raimmd. No. j<j the following day we received a letter from the
M. Why not ? Have you not tormented jXj mother of the child, in which she said:
me enough? . j>j ‘4 God bless you for your interest and sym-
Raimund. I mean to remain with you. jsj pathy for my little one. She has had no more
M. That must not he. God is my salva- l|j attacks: the nightly paroxysms have abated,
tion : say this after me. . $ and she has been more cheerful. I trust in
Raimund. There is no salvation for me. j>j you, my kind friend, and have faith in the
M. Oh ! Raimund, you hurt me : cannot jsj goodness of God. Rut what shall I do if the
you pray ? R| attacks come on again ? ”
Raimund. I can curse. j(j My spirit-guide then gave a homoeopathic
M. Adelma, help me. I would release j^j prescription for the child, with a supplement
myself from this spirit, hut I am chained to jsj to the effect that the mother should not call in
him : or aid me in his conversion. God Kj any more doctors, as they could do no good,
will grant us power. j/j and might aggravate the case. It was no or-
Raimund then wrote: j)j ganic disease, hut an extremely prejudicial
u I have already said that I seek a body on jsj influence acting upon the nervous organism,
the earth : I must have one.” jsj As soon as this should he removed the child
I answered: You must try to he better, and \A would be restored to health,
pray frequently for God’s mercy and pardon. jSj Raimund then wrote :
Raimmd. That I will never do. The devil j<| “ M. wears the amulet: I often repeat the
will help me. jd prayer and find it does me good. This inter-
My spirit-guide then took control and wrote |>j course with you is a great blessing to me. I
as follows: m wish M. to come so that I may ask her forgive-
u 0 God, the Father, the Creator, the Lord sj ness.”
of All, the Beginning and the End, hear our jsj Presently the spirit of the child announced
feeble cry. We implore compassion for this jsj herself, and wrote:
poor deluded spirit. In accordance with the n “Yes, dear Brother, I forgive, and am re¬
promise of Thy dear Son, send forth a ray of jsj joiced to know that you desire to he better,
light to guide this miserable creature, and |<j Will you pray with me ?
grant him repentance and deliverance. Give j<j “0 God, help us, poor sorrowing spirits,
heed to his humble beseechings, 0 God, for j£j Forgive us our trespasses, grant us faith, and
Thou art his Father and our own. Amen.” j^j enable us to overcome temptation. Hear us
The writing ceased: after a short pause it !<j and help us, we beseech Thee. Amen.”
was resumed. j)| Raimund. I have heard: and will myself
Raimund. I feel dazed: nevertheless that |)j pray for strength in order to keep my promise,
prayer was good. If you promise to let me jsj I am weak and erring still, 0 God.
speak often with you I will no longer torment j<| Shortly afterwards we received a second let-
the child, M.; if not, I will continue and do ter from the child’s mother, stating:
her still more harm. Ah ! I can’t be good. j>! “I have given the medicine according to
My God, I am irredeemable.” K| your instructions. M. has had two attacks
After a brief interval the same spirit wrote: <1 lately which caused her intense pain and rest-
“ God forgive me. Yes, I am determined : j>j lessness. She persisted in getting out of bed
I will withdraw my influence over M. if you j£| and crying ‘Go away, go away.’ She has also
will pray forme every day.” jsj suffered great pain in one foot. What more
My spirit-guide then put in: Kj can be done ? ”
“His repentance is sincere. I wish you to j)j. My spirit-guide wrote in reply:
work the following prayer in silk and hang it jsj “ Trust in God, and believe our word: the
round M.’s neck. It will remind Raimund of jsj little one shall very soon be delivered from her
his promise whenever he draws near her. j(j sufferings. The pain in the foot is part and
“We depend upon Thee, 0 God. Think j^j parcel of the rest. When she calls out ‘Go
not of Raimund’s transgressions ; have mercy j;j away,’ it is that she would chase away the out-
upon him and help him to amend, then will this |<j side influence, Raimund is here and wishes
poor child be released and healed. Amen.” R\ to speak.”
“ When an attack is likely to come on, tell \u Raimund. Your intercession has done me
106 THE S PIE
good: I can pray now. I want to speak to M. K|
Wish for her to come.* |?j
M. I willingly come. My poor mother is |>|
distressed about me, and prays continually. K|
This trial is to chasten her spirit. How art Kj
thou, Baimund?
Raimund. Better. Offer a prayer for me. |)j
. . . Ah, that was good: I thank you, M. |s|
Best assured I will watch over and protect you. jcj
I love you now. Forgive my horrible cruelty. ;>|
0 forgive—forgive !
M. I have already forgotten. May God ]>]
strengthen you, my brother !
Raimund. I thank you, dear child of earth, j?j
I thank you pure and holy spirits whom my o]
glance can scarcely reach: I pray for M.’s re- |s]
covery, and that I may indeed be worthy to k|
be called her brother. In the name of God, I D)
promise not to return to my former wickedness, nj
The control changed and my spirit-guide Kj
wrote:
u You may believe Baimund’s words. If m
his conversion appears rash, it is nevertheless jjj
sincere, as you will perceive.” Kj
My husband and I continued to pray daily jo
and earnestly for the spirit Baimund, and the j?j
child M. In the month of October Baimund j>j
came to tell us that he must take his leave, jsj
and again he expressed his gratitude and joy. ki
In the meantime we had received letters con- j> j
cerning the child’s state of health, and Dec. the jS|
28 th brought the following from the truly jO
thankful mother:
“ God be praised: my little one is well j?j
again, quite well and cheerful. I thank God Ijj
sincerely for it, and you for your kind interest jsj
and sympathy: may He protect you from k|
such suffering. I believe if the church will j?j
not accord her sanction the faithful heart must jsj
bow in humble acquiescence, and rather forsake |sj
everything than cherish a fault of allegiance, jn
The right way io open to me now; I would |>j
advise you to have no more to do with spirit- js|
ual communication : but to pray continually Kj
and earnestly to your guardian angel.”
It may here be seen that the mother of the m
healed child would not believe: as Christ m
said: is!
“You have ears to hear and hear not: eyes . a
to see and see not; ” and in her blindness was j>|
ready to condemn the means of the little one’s jsj
restoration. Even so did the Pharisees say Kj
of our Saviour: “ He casteth out devils j?j
through the Prince of the devils.”
Gonobitz, Austria. jS j
* These seances were held at night when the child was in bed and vj
asleep.—C.C.
TUALIST. Peb. 27, 1880.
THE DIFEICULTIES OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
BY ELIZA BOUCHER.
I venture a few observations on the first
portion of the truly useful and excellent paper
of the Bev. W. Miall, given in The Spiritualist
of February 6th. His remarks on the fan¬
aticism and credulity evinced in a large pro¬
portion of spiritualistic literature, “ in which
instances are adduced of spirit agency in the
absence of evidence, which any child might
see to be essential to its verification,” are true
to the very letter. I remember at one seance
I attended years ago, with a since noted
medium, when even what appeared to me to
be evidently the scratching of mice in the
Avail or partition, was represented as of spirit¬
ualistic origin; and at another materialisation
seance the so-called cabinet was formed of a
part of the room, which contained not only a
wardrobe, but a door opening on the passage,
and although I admit that the latter was
locked, still how easily might a second key
have been substituted. Seances Avithout tests
are not only useless, but prejudicial, for at them,
although a certain amount of investigation is
invited, the expression of doubt is frequently
received in such a manner, and the complaints
of spirits and medium are of so disagreeable a
character, whilst perhaps only one or two
noAuces are admitted to the select circle
(although perhaps a paid one), that few would
care to express their opinion fully and openly,
under the circumstances. All this may seem to
the inexperienced cowardly and weak, but still,
as old Stapleton says in Captain Marryat’s Jacob
Faithful, ’tis “ human natur.”
What Mr. Miall says also with regard to
theories and facts is excellent. Theories are all
very well, but what we need in this compara¬
tively early stage of the movement, for I believe
it was cradled about thirty years ago, is facts—
stern scientific facts, critically investigated,
and attested by clear sighted and intelligent
men ; and glad am I that Mr. Miall so modestly
yet so emphatically points out the folly of
under-rating the immense value of enlisting in
the cause, the interest and adhesion of men of
this class. One convert from the ranks of
science is worth hundreds, I had well-nigh
said thousands, of ordinary minds.
To the argument, striking as it is, that
within the last thirty years or so, this move¬
ment, humble in its origin as that of the manger
of Bethlehem, has enrolled millions of votaries
in all parts of the civilised world, in its ranks,
the reply might really not illogically be given,
Feb. 27, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
107
u Yes, I’ve heard that the world contains so
many millions (I forget the number), mostly
fools,” but when the names of Crookes,
Wallace, Yarley and numbers of others are
adduced in connection with this “ despised and
rejected of men ” movement, the above shaft,
sharp though it be, falls powerless to the
ground. Therefore, although I acknowledge
that science, as well as theology, has too often
taken false and antagonistic views of new
truths, yet until the former has been to a
large extent won over, no truth has ever
become of popular and universal acceptation.
Again, Mr. MialPs treatment of the difficulties
of investigators is most pertinent. “ How
comes it to pass that I meet on every hand
with persons who have striven, in accordance
with accredited instructions, to obtain phe¬
nomena, and having signally failed to do so,
have equally failed to find any intelligent
Spiritualist to take them by the hand, and
invite them to a seat in his own circle.” Now,
although in my limited experience, I have
frequently met with great kindness and
courtesy from private Spiritualists, yet, that
experience both in public and in private circles
has been most unsatisfactory. A psychological
society was formed in Bristol a few years since,
of which I was among the earliest members;
no phenomena in my opinion, worth naming
were obtained, and the society ere long came
to an end; although it numbered some of the
most advanced thinkers of the city in its
ranks. Afterwards I was courteously invited
to form one of a private and select circle, con¬
sisting of only a very few friends; again our
experience was simply nil, whilst with paid
mediums, (and I have sat with some of the
best), I never met with a convincing test of
spirit presence.
In speaking thus plainly, I am in a measure
acting up to the advice given by Mr. Miall,
to be perfectly outspoken on the difficulties,
contradictions, and absurdities which beset
the matter on all sides. Thus alone will the
chaff be separated from the wheat, and will
the true gold tried in the fire come out seven
times purified. Well does Mr. Miall speak
of the u incomparable importance of the
subject.” Not one, but every branch of it is
of the greatest interest, and glows with a
fire of importance, before which all earthly
sciences fade into utter insignificance, except
as incorporated with this grandest of all
subjects of enquiry.
How true are his words u If Spiritualism be
not the most deplorable of delusions, its claims
jVj transcend those of every other object or de-
|<| partment of thought.” If Spiritualists and
k| mediums, or those who witness any psycho-
m logical phenomena would but remember these
n| words, and reflect on the vast injury they do
K to the world at large by trifling with, suppress-
?! ing, or, worse than all, dabbling with deceit,
j;j or imposture, for filthy lucre’s sake, the most
|s| careless would surely pause ere he committed
K; such a sin against the highest and best in-
!?! terests of poor humanity. Creeds, systems
!>| of theology, beliefs, interwoven with the in-
j | fancy of nations, which have grown, as it were,
| ! a part of the very life of the people, give
|?| way slowly, but surely before the ever advanc-
m ing wave of progressive thought ; and why ?
[Si Because their originators did not look well to
Kl their foundations. Indeed, before the present
|?l age, such a thing as scientific Spiritualism was
j;l hardly dreamed of ; the spontaneous pheno-
Kj mena of apparitions were regarded as miracles,
<1 as something to be talked of only in whispers,
j?j and rarely mentioned in ordinary cases out-
j;| side the family circle, nobody apparently
Isi feeling their importance, or thinking of asking
j | anything about the laws which regulated their
! ; occurrence. Thinking men, therefore, very
|>| naturally relegated the whole of them to the
| realm of superstition and delusion, and thus
Kj rejecting them altogether, the scientific mind
I?! became materialistic to the very core. All
j> honour to science for its outspoken fearless
|s| championship of what it believed to be true,
!<! in the face of the frowns of the orthodox
i?| dogmatists, whose logic was denunciation, and
!) j whose argument was the thundering anathema,
j [ To convince scientific men, who, whatever may
I be said to the contrary, in reality give the
K tone of thought to society at large, and
!>! gradually, but surely, “ leaven the whole
|s| lump,” is the task assigned to modern Spirit-
k| ualism, and every scientific mind enrolled
I?! under her banner is as a tower of strength
j)l in the face of the enemy. Therefore let
Kj Spiritualism seek by every reasonable and
K dignified means to win over the leading minds
j?! of the day, and this in my opinion can only
!>! be done by abolishing as far as possible cabinet
m stances, and by developing to the full a few
Kl good mediums who will submit to every test
1^| which scientific men may require. There
I should be an elimination by all justifiable
! means of trifling fanaticism, and undue
| scrupulosity in the expression of honest doubt,
I and above all things, all imposture and delusion
I should be put down. Thus shall future genera-
| tions honour our brave pioneers, and taking
1 08
THE SEIEITTJALIST.
Eeb. 27, 1880.
refuge in the fair structure they have raised,
say in the beautiful words of the gentle
Nazarene : u The rain descended, and the
floods came, and the winds blew and beat
upon that house, but it fell not, for it was
founded upon a rock.”
Albion Villa, Fremantle Square Bristol.
.    
THE TESTIMONIAL EOR DR. MONCK.
The undersigned earnestly appeal to Spiritualists to
contribute liberally to the Testimonial now under their
care. They also especially seek small sums from the
numerous friends of Dr. Monck in the Country, many
of u horn have been benefitted by his gratuitous medical
power of healing. If a sufficient sum is raised to com¬
plete the patenting and manufacture of several inven¬
tions, which have already met the approval of competent
men of business, it is the hope of Dr. Monck to return
to his work as soon as his health permits aa an Unpaid
Medium.
W. P. Adshead, Helper; A. Aksakof, St. Petersburg;
Dr. Brown, Burnley; James Burns, Southampton Row;
Alexander Calder, 1, Hereford Square, S.W.; Prof.
R. Eriese, Breslau; A. J. Cranstoun, Meggen, Lucerne;
J. H. Gledstanes, Merignac; Baron Dirckinck Holm-
feld, Holstein; Sir G. Isham, Bart., Northampton;
Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Kilburn; Wm. Oxley,
Manchester; E. Dawson Rogers, Finchley; Morell
Theobald, Hon. Sec.; J. Pemberton Turner, Learning-
ton; Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston; Hensleigh Wedgwood,
J.P., Queen Anne Street; Prof. F. Zollner, Leipzig.
All remittances should be sent to Morell Theobald,
62, Granville Park, Blackheath.
SUBSCRIPTIONS ALREADY RECEIVED-
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun, Lucerne .
Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston ..
W. P. Adshead, Esq., Belper
William Tebb, Esq., Albert Road .
H.S.H. Prince G 
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford
Dr. J. Dixon, Great Ormond Street.
F.G.S., per A. Calder, Esq...
Sir Charles Isham, Bart
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P...
J. Pemberton Turner, Esq. ..
Morell Theobald, Esq.
F. Myers, Esq. ,.
Two Friends .. . j .. .
Dr. Brown, Burnley ..
W. Oxley, Esq.
Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A. ,
Mrs. Stone, Shute Haye
J. B. Stones, Esq.
Dr. Stowell, Brighton .. ;
James Bowman, Glasgow . .
Mies Douglas, South Audley Street
R. Gessler, Basle
A Friend, per R. Gessler
Joseph Swinburne, Esq, ..
A. Tod, Peebles ..
Rev. W. Miall, Hackney
Miss Ottley, Belgravia
Dr. Wyld
John A. Hoover, Philadelphia
A. P. Edinburgh ..
W. R. Tomlinson ,. ,,
Square
£ s.
12 0
10 0
5 5
5 5
5 0
5 0
5 0
2 2
2 2
2 2
5 5
2 2
2 0
2 0
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
1 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
•1 0
1 0
0 5
0 10
0 10
d.
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
T. Farrell .. .. ,.
J. Thompson, Newcastle
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory ..
Prof. Cassal, Lon. University
F. W. Percival, Esq., Savile Club
The Yen. Archdeacon, T.
Herr Oscar von Hoffman, Leipzig
J. Clark Ferguson ..
Dr. Kennedy .. .. .,
R. Glendinning, Birkdale .,
“ One who Wishes She Could do Mo
George Tommy, Bristol
Capt. Copperthwaite, Malton
Capt James, Gower Street ..
P.O. Order from Germany ..
J. H. Aldridge, Bradford
T. Stocking, Wisbech
Friends, per Dr. Brown
A.T 
Dr. Hitchman ., ..
Some Members of Psychological Society
Hamburg ..
Jh. • , • 9 • • » «
Thos. Grant, Esq.
Percy Wyndham, Esq.
F.J.T 
of
Dr. Curtis, Rome .. ..
Mrs. Nosworthy, Liverpool .,
L.E.G...
A Friend, per Mr. Rossiter ..
Mrs. Lenox, Nice
Mrs. Woodforde’s Seance ..
Hon. A. Aksakof, &c., St. Petersbur
R. Carroll ., . * ..
Dr. Blunt .. .. ..
Pr. T. McKinney .. ..
Dr. Johnston .. .. ,,
Col. Bryan .. ., .. ,
A Sympathiser .. .« .
J.W., Brighton ..
Mrs. Maltby .. ,.
S. J.H., Grimsby .. ..
J. Robertson .. ..
Mrs. Ayers .. .. .. .
Collected by W. S, Hunter ..
,, at Mrs. Town’s Seance .
,, by James Beals, Wisbech
H. A. Beckett ..
“ Chip ”  
A.M., Hungary
G. Bryan, .Budleigh ..
Mrs. Esperance’s Seance ..
Mrs. Blunt’s Circle ..
Miss Wood’s Seance, Newcastle
£ s. d.
0 10 0
0 10 0
10 0
110
1 1 0
10 0 0
8 0 0
0 10 0
20 0 0
1 1 0
0 10 0
0 10 6
5 0 0
1 1 0
1 0 0
0 10 0
0 10 0
0 17 6
2 2 0
1 1 0
1 1 0
0 10 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
0 10 0
10 0
0 10 0
6 0 0
2 0 0
1 1 0
2 0 0
10 8 4
0 3 0
0 5 0
0 7 6
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 2 6
0 3 0
0 2 0
0 7 6
0 5 0
0 14 6
0 15 0
0 18 0
0 2 6
0 2 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 8 0
10 0
3 15 0
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
Feb, 27, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. 'White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting puniahmemt of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pncisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
False lights and dark spots
in Spiritualism, by Christian Beimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexandeb, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
rpEA MEETING AND CONFER-
JL ENCEatC, Field View, London Fields, E., on
Sunday, March 5 th. Tea, 5 o’clock. Tickets, which
must be obtained before date, Is. each. Conference,
subject for consideration, ” The Promotion of Spiri¬
tualism and the Prevention of Exposures.” 6.30.
Admission Free. C. B. Williams, Sec.
MEDIUMSHIPi ITS NATURE
AND VABIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for l£d; or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES^
SENGEB AND EPHEMEBIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“ Baphael’s ” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, andjudge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemoris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa-
TIONOF SPIBITUALISTS, 38, Great Bussell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &o., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, dally. 'Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, ‘‘ S. C.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Bue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
rFHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
JL oldest j ournal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world!. Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Bich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Bich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W,C,
Price 3s, Gil. imperial 6vu. Cloth, red edges, Postfree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. Y. Tappan-
hichmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Hieher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
Y.—The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. Y. Tappan-Bichmond.
VI. —Angel -Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The JAfe of Swedenborg.
XII. —Besurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Bainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By theBev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Belation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship oi
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Bev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epe:
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXILI.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship ot “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice W orthingtoi
(Ennesf alien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Belation t<
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among tin
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professoi
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psych'u
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri
son.
XL.—Meditation and (he Voice of Conscience. B
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. «By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy i
Belation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdouga'
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Bussel Wall act
F.B.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Blanch Office, 3!
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Ebwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Acofirin''
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brusst Is, Madrid, T irni an
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmeris:
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the M ilan Society fp
the Promotion of Science, Arts and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 3?
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.’’
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Beconeiliatiom—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Besurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyms, 5, Bue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris, Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Beligious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Benewal of Bevelation.
Chapter V :—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Bevelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modem Spiritualism'.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 124, Holland
Boad, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PBINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at Z'he Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
for distribution at public meetings.
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should he multiplied by tne wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private famihes. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
tne facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to ■' drop about ” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con¬
sequently irreligious age. ,
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb, 27,. 1880.
Accidental Indigestion
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
USE
END'S FRUIT SALT
Erery Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a bottle of
END’S FBTJIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression,;Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Da. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. Tha thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
Q AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. . ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Thy steal Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT! !! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injuiious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means).- Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de la Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. He is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
m the house.”—M. Bkral.
END’S FRUIT SALT.— “After suf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of .
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ CUCCESS IN LIFE.’’—Anewin-
Kj vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CA UTION.—’Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without,you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and is. (id.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
I rice Five Shillings. Crown Svo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly, renommended by reviews in The'Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
OW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIKTY.
DW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane. 
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song ol
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Fhotographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief, ot. the College of Howling Der¬
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12 Our Raven.—rl3. Materialistic Religion.—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe!”—19. The Human' Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejixw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30, The Con¬
verted Carman.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares. ,
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane. ~
February, 1880.1 [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
A Monthly Magazine.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says“Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanitv. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
" All are of marked ability. ... Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rathei
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
CONTENTS.
Spiritualism in some of its Religious Aspects; A
Comparison and a Contrast: M.A. (Oxon)—Glimpses
of Spiritualism in the past: J. S. Farmer—Spiritual¬
istic Positivism: Dr. Maurice Davies—Culture and
Faith: M.A. (Oxon)—Dream Concerning the “ Dollar
Wrack: ” A. M. H. Watts—A “ Mission” in Tyrol: A
M. H. W.—The Story of a Dream—Extemporaneous
Sermons by Thomas L. Harris: A. M.—Universal
Restitution: J. W. F.—Notes and Gleanings: The
True Results of Spiritualism; Clear Seeing of
Women; Power of Mind on Mind ; An Impressive
Case ; Victor Hugo on Spiritualism.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, II, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW: Hay Nisbf.t & Co.. 52, Ropework-lane
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley,' Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that ms descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship ol
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literarj
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free 7Jd.; cloth.
hphe probableTeffects of
-L SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association of
8f i ritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
The Efficacy of Prayer. By C. C. Massey  97
Treatment of Spiritualism a Test of Character.
By. the Rev. W. Miall      98
The Mohamedan Conception of the Deity  100
The Mesmerising of Animals....     101
Unconscious Cerebration. By Henry G. Atkinson 102
The Black Stones of Dollich. By J. A. Campbell,
B.A ;   102
The Alleged Supernatural Adventure of Marshal
Mac Mahon...    103
Spiritualism in Edinburgh..    103
Correspondence:—A Death Warning  103
Sunday Meetings ....,   104
Cabinet Seances    104
The Power of Exorcism. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay     104
The Difficulties of Inquiries into Spiritualism.
By Eliza Boucher    106
The Testimonial for Dr. Monck   108
Paragraph:—Mrs. Hollis Billing     ., 101
Printed for the Proprietor tv Arlisb Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C,
