Registered as a Newspaper;
#Itai pem^pff teit^r Spntwalhm in §niam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE : 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” OfBce, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal’*
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 309. (Vol. XIII.—No. 4.)\ LONDON : FRIDAY, JULY 26, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents*
The Evolution of New Manifestations  ... 37
Scientific Investigations in Spiritualism   37
Touching for the King’s Evil. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.,
Author of Letters to Miss Mart.ntau 38
Mrs. Hardy-Perkins’ Wills 38
Spiritualism in Macclesfield:—Spirit Identity 39
The Scotch High Court of Justiciary:—A Somnambulist
Charged with Murder      40
A Cast of a Materialised Spirit Foot. By William Oxley .. 42
Mesmeric Healing  43
Mr. Felt and the Theosophical Society:—Elementais and
the Egyptian Zodiacs    44
Correspondence:—Spirit Identity—Communion with the
Spirits of the Departed—A Divorce Case, Holt v. Holt
—Dr. Mackenzie and Spiritualism—Spiritual Pheno-
T niena at Wiesbaden—The Seance at Mr. St. Clair’s
House at Birmingham  45
Alleged Cure of Snake Bites by Occult Means 47
Spiritual Manifestations in a Bygone Age 48
Spiritualism and the Newspapers  48
Paragraphs:—Experiments by Professor Zcillner and Mr.
Aksakof, 38 ; Some Old American Laws. 39 ; Prodigious
Memories, 41; Marriage, 43; A Mother's Curse, 47 ;
Advertising for Ghost-Seers   48
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER;
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
BSTABLISHBD IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness : His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenherg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon.'J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly.
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. 0. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ;. Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander. Calder, President, of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Ohurch (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petershurg);
the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Slake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E: Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. fionywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the’‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully; M:D.; the Rev. C. :
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. 0. .
Hall F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kislmg-
hury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris).; Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United .States); Mr. W. Lindesay _
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free:
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris : Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio,.Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be closed on
Saturday, July 27th, and re-opened on Monday, August 26th.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m. to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high-class journals,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: Two Guineas a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Five shillings
a year includes membership, and an extra subscription of ten
shillings entitles one book from the lending library. Half-a-
Guinea a quarter entitles non-members to the use of the read¬
ing room and library, and also of the lending library.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members bave the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library%
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. SK0.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REYIEW.
No. II. July. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—The Two Schools of Thought. By St. George Stock.
II.—James Hinton. By William White.
III. —Clairvoyance and Psychography., By Epes Sargent.
IV. —The Abate of San Gandolfo. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Remarkable Psychological Experiences. By A. E.
Newton.
VI.—Psychology of the Bible. By J. W. Farquhar.
VII.—^Pilgrimages in France. II.—Issoudun. By Rev. H.
N. Grimley.
VIII.—Thirtieth Anniversary of Modem Spiritualism. By
Thomas Shorter.
Leaves from My. Life—An Innocent Sinner—Buddhism—
Miss Martineau Defended—More Glimpses of the World
Unseen — Concerning Everlasting Punishment — Possible
Planetary Influences—An Intelligent Tree—Psychography—
The Truthseeker — Views of our Heavenly Home —The
Master’s Field—Marguerite Marie Alacoque.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
The anglo-swiss musical box.
2s., post free 27 stamps. Eight tunes. The eight may
be -selected from the following:—Home, Sweet Home, Hold
the Fort, The Last Rose of Summer, The Blue Danube Waltz,
Fair Shines the Moon, Pulling Hard against the Stream.
The Grange Novelty Company, Brackley-street, Sheffield.
Agents Wanted.   
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SECRETARY and CORRESPONDENT.
A well-known and favourite Literary Contributor to
The Spiritualist would like a congenial appointment where
character, ability, and confidential trustworthiness are re-
. quired. Excellent press and shorthand experience, Address
“ Junius,” 36, Royal-road, London, S,E.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, IF;
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W. 
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand,
 Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co,, London. 
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post fre*
for 6d.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Pricels.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, 22. No.
SCARCE AND VALUABLE BOOKS.
(Second hand.)
The Spiritual Magazine, Vols I. to XIV. (A.D. 1860 to 1873
£7 10s.
The Celestial Telegraph (Cahagnet), 12s.
From Matter to Spirit (Mrs. De Morgan), 10s. 
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality, .
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT'S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-hiking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, LudgateCircus Buildings,London, E.C.
Sqpd for an illustrated pamphlet, ‘‘HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, genera
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, Ac., <Scc.
post free, seven stamps.   
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C1
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends arid
Coapons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 9], Great Russell-street, London.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 26, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didstmry, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1. Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Oerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Eltz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughboroqgh-road
North, Bilxton, S.'W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdousall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood. Mrs., 62, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Langley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiseombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester-
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Vale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
CofHn, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.'W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 69, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfield, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A., 14, Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road, Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nos worthy, Mrs., 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15. Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson,84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redoliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Mean wood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H , M. A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
' • "n, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
v' V: Miss H., 1. The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withali, 11., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Caldcr, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W, Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan deRassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baron<?"s Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde do Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
If. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
]' '■ ’'""'ychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta,
dames Myino. Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma llardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraaf, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sireet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Gennany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymane, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H, Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Climnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. s .muol Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Lmher Colby, Esq., 9 ,Mofttgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre, 285, ChausseeSt.Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelies.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W-.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, BeIgra>ve-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Halloek, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T.Biyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—lil Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
  dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BKITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One q/ the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Customs. 
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small Svo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Offloe.
WOBKS BY THE COUNTESS OF CAITHNESS.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
cfc.. Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal efi Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
The probable effects of spirit-
HALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RE'.I-
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY, Two Essays by M ss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green,
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E, W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems op the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritucdist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Birmey,
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 London :—Simpkin, Marshall & Co,
H~ EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6il., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Oolby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, <fcc., <fcc. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office. London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
■ tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer^t, James’s-streetjandMr.Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 6. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.  
MR, J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLAGE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to vis
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates-address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
XH W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
JS_U# engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, <fcc., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at th eir homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit eircumstanees. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
mHE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
JL ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Olairvoyante. No. 2, Yernon-plaee, Blooms ■
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
\_y ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry-
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Pakt I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IY. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Leve and Latin.—
YI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Paet II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XL Iteconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—xVlI. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX. Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer—XXIV. Kesurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for mauy years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
 London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
KARE OLD BOOKS on ALCHEMY,
MAGIO, and ASTROLOGY, for sale.—Send stamped
envelope to Mr. Halse, 40, Addison-road, Kensington, London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE, BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.C.
Jt tl |gj tl S|| uttb ^il|it[$ xtf
Ko. 309.—-Yolujvie Thirteen; Kumber Pour.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 26th, 1878.
THE EVOLUTION OF NEW MANIFESTATIONS. |
A friend writes :— • i |
“ Your article on conditions is instructive. But I wish you would |
suggest that some public medium should train himself to sit for slate- i)
writing in the light. You say truly it takes less power out of them. It j)
would be an interesting experiment to ascertain whether a medium, by j j
persistently sitting for a form of manifestation strange to him, and of j)
course in the meanwhile abstaining from all others, could obtain it with j}
regularity. Another Slade would be of infinite service to the move- J j
ment, so much so, that I think enough money could be raised to main- |
tain the medium in seclusion from circles while he was in training; and ; (
even as a matter of experiment, it would be well worth the expenditure
to find out whether mediumship has sufficient versatility for this. It (
would enlarge our knowledge in a valuable degree to be able to say <
whether one form of physical mediumship can he exchanged for another, j
If it provably can, we may get rid of darkness altogether for (
inquirers.” (
When strong mediumship first appears in an individual,
there is no difficulty in cultivating one class of the j
phenomena given in his presence, and partly repressing
the others. If the sitters and the medium express
pleasure at the evolution of one particular kind of
manifestation, the spirits give most of their attention
to the perfecting of the phenomenon most in request,
and after a time the type becomes somewhat fixed.
For this reason, when a new physical medium is coming
forward, as at Wiesbaden at the present time, his friends
should strongly urge him not to sit in the dark, daylight
manifestations like those once obtained by Mrs. Mary
Marshall being so much wanted in Europe. With Mr.
Williams and other mediums, dark circle manifestations
have been developed to a high pitch of efficiency. There is I
a natural tendency on the part of new mediums to sit for
manifestations which they read of as occurring in the j
presence of their predecessors, so their friends should point j
out to them the great desirability of the cultivation on their j.
part of some less known phase of the phenomena. If two |
new physical mediums would sit for the carriage of solid
objects from place to place by the spirits, under conditions
permitting the exact timing of the arrival and departure of
objects at both ends of the line, it would be a most useful
manifestation, blowing to the winds many a wild theory of
disbelievers, just as is done by the facts of psychography.
The carriage of objects has occasionally been effected, and
there seems to be no reason why it should not be done with
regularity. One example of the carriage of a large object,
in the shape of an unwieldy pole, by spirits, is recorded on
the authority of Glanvil in this number of The Spiritualist.
Has distance any influence in such manifestations ? If ever
by psychic methods small letters can be carried across the
Atlantic in a few hours, the cable companies with their
millions of invested capital will get into a state of panic,
and as the way to the heart of the average vulgar type of
Englishmen is through the pocket, a disturbance on the
Stock Exchange caused by spirits would lead to the !1
extension of the study of psychology.
Whether, by seclusion of the medium, one well-established ! |
class of manifestations can be changed to another of a totally
different kind has never been tried. It would be a work of j!
time and difficulty; and the intelligent powers at the root of j
the matter have sometimes told us, in reply to questions on
the point, that it is best to cultivate new classes of pheno- j
mena through new mediums. Mr. Morse’s mediumship, in I
its early days, gave frequent evidence of spirit identity, but j
his spirits say that the attempt to bring back those mani¬
festations in place of those now given through him, would !
subject him to considerable mental disturbance, and might
prove a failure in the end. Mr. Wallis similarly could once
give evidence of spirit identity, but circumstances conducted j
him into the lecturing branch of his profession, not perhaps j
to his own advantage. 1
SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATIONS IN SPIRITUALISM.
Spiritualists in general are, I think, under great obliga-
| tions to Mr. Charles Blackburn for his past liberal and
| judicious efforts to verify scientifically the phenomena through
| Florence Cook (now Mrs. Corner), and the present pheno-
| mena through her sister, Miss Kate S. Cook. His commu-
I nication in The Spiritualist of June 21, 1878, I read with
j much interest. The conditions for scrutiny, both in his own
case and in that of fs Mr. B., of Eccles,” seem to have been
of the most satisfactory character; and the results contribute
strongly to the confirmation of the great fact of spirit
materialisation.
It is Dot surprising, perhaps, in view of the magnitude of
the phenomenon, that so many, even among Spiritualists,
should still have their doubts in regard to the full-form
materialisation ; but all investigators who have gone far
enough in their experiments, like Mr. Blackburn, Mr.
Crookes, Dr. Nichols of Malvern, Mr. Barkas, and others,
seem to have no vestige of doubt in regard to the fact.
“Mr. B., of Eccles,” it seems, in the seance with Miss
j Kate S. Cook, “ went into the cabinet with the medium, and
| held her until a form in pure white rose up and spoke to him
in the identical voice, in twilight, which has always spoken
to him at dark seancesT 11 The medium’s dress was worsted,
and the spirit form’s dress was white calico; both of which
he at the same time handled and saw.”
I have before me in manuscript an account by Mr. T. C.
Buddington, of Springfield, Mass., of some of his recent
experiments with Mr. Henry B. Allen. Mr. Allen, some
sixteen years ago, when a mere boy, was remarkable for the
manifestation [of the spirit hands in daylight through his
mediumship. I saw him then several times, and was well
persuaded of the genuineness of the phenomena. He has
borne an excellent reputation ever since, though he has had
the ups and downs to which all mediums seem to be subject,
and has been charged on several occasions with “ frauds,” a
further investigation into the charges of which has always
placed him rectus in curia, and ended in his complete
exculpation.
Mr. Buddington, washing to verify scientifically the
appearance of the spirit hand, instituted some careful ex¬
periments, at which he, Mr. Orozier of Amherst, and Mr.
I and Mrs. Allen were the only persons present. Under
I stringent conditions, including that of sufficient light, the
phenomena of the appearance and disappearance of detached
hands, together with independent writing, were most satis¬
factorily proved.
“ Soon the hands,” writes Mr. Buddington, “became very
powerful and distinct, playing good music upon the dulcimer
| and guitar, and throwing the bells into the room.” I then
| stationed Mr. Orozier by the lamp, with instructions to turn
| up the flame till the room became light enough to read by,
| and to plainly recognise any one. The manifestations still
| increased in power, and a giant hand and arm reached out
! and grasped me by the hand, which I had temporarily taken
! from Allen, still holding both his with my other.
“This hand and arm was of the colour of the purest
I porcelain, and varied from that colour to a crystalline
, j transparency. It seized the dulcimer, and lifted it to the
I ceiling, overhead, and then lowering it to the floor pushed it
i j into the room between my chair and the side of the room, a
distance of at least four feet from Allen’s position. By
II request it seized the chair, and lifted it to the ceiling, and
11 held it suspended for the space of nearly two minutes ; then
11 lowering it to the floor, the seance ended.” Two nights
j | after, another stance gave substantially the same results.
j Of Mr. Buddington’s experiments in psychography I
| forbear to speak. Those who have any doubt whether this
|i phenomenon has not been abundantly proved are referred to
38
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 26, 1878.
TOUCHING FOR THE KING’S EVIL.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OP “ LETTERS TO MISS MARTINEAU.”
the excellent book on the subject by “ M.A. (Oxon.),” the m
facts in which can be circumvented only by assuming (as j 11
Messrs. Carpenter, Beard, an^i others do assume) that there | s |
are certain facts contradicting one’s notions of the possible j |!
in nature, which no amount of human testimony can verify |) j
—that is, can verify to the Carpenters and Beards. Hi
“ At the next regular circle for development,” says Mr. j ? j
Buddington, “ there came the form of a lady between Mr. j | j
Allen and myself, which I am thoroughly satisfied belonged j (]
not to any one living in the mortal form. I would no sooner j | j
grasp it firmly than it melted like snow, or rather like mist j j |
—thus convincing me that the phase of materialisation | (j
comes properly within the realm of scientific scrutiny.” 11]
Here, you will see, is explicit testimony to what scepticism | \ j
has often asked for—the grasping of a spirit-form, and the j (j
consequences. j; j
Mr. Buddington remarks in conclusion: “These are m
simple scientific facts, and only duplicates of hundreds of m
others. Of one thing we may be certain. The scientific j) I
side of Spiritualism is the only absolutely reliable phase to | j I
build upon. In an experience in this channel of investiga- j j j
tion I have ever found the spirit side anxious and ready to |)!
give absolute proof. Upon the earthly side there has been j \!
no adequate means provided, nor encouragement given, to H
place these great facts before the world upon a scientific !) I
basis, save by private enterprise? |l|
And here I was reminded of Mr. Blackburn’s praiseworthy j | j
efforts. I wish there were more men having the means, the | j j
leisure, and the disposition to follow his example. “ When- j | J
ever,” continues Mr. Buddington, “ these phenomenal proofs ! j j
are made a basis of pecuniary emolument, the end is disaster j (I
and failure, because mercenary motives are not in accord j j j
with true spiritual development. Then come the attempts j j j
at counterfeiting, with the certain exposure and disgrace.” j)!
I have been indebted to Mr. Luther Colby, of the Banner j (j
of Lights for the privilege of making this use of Mr. Bud- !)|
dington’s manuscript in advance of its publication. v j j j
There have been stories, you will see, of fraudulent j j 1
practices on the part of Mrs. Pickering, of Rochester, N.H., m
the well-known materialising medium. The charges, though | j
made in good faith, do not seem to bear close sifting. Mr. 11
Colby, Mr. Gerry Brown, and others, who have testified to
the genuineness of the phenomena, are not shaken one jot \j
in their convictions by these immature and hasty reports. 11
Mrs. Pickering has given ample proofs of her medial power, j) j
Whether she is morally so weak and foolish as to attempt to l
supplement real phenomena by spurious remains to be I) i
proved. Mr. Hazard, the noble old investigator, now j j j
upwards of eighty, who, while the thermometer here was at jj
ninety in the shade, started for Laconia, N.H., July 1st, to jj
investigate the facts in regard to Mrs. Pickering, writes j j
back: “ That she is a genuine medium for materialisation ;jj
there is not the slightest doubt. Possess your soul in j I
patience. All will come out right.” v
I am glad to see that a new book on Spiritualism is j j
announced by Mr. W. H. Harrison. Few investigators have j j j
had more ample opportunities than he of getting at the j j |
actual truth of things in regard to Spiritualism; while a j j
digest of the remarkable facts in his own journal from week j j i
to week, during the last five years, would of itself form a
work of surpassing interest. I hope that ample encourage- j j I
ment, from both sides of the Atlantic, will be extended to j j
the enterprise. E. S. ill
Boston, Massachusetts, July 4th, 1878. I) j
"We are about to re-issue the valuable little book on Spiritualism i j j
written by Mr. P. P. Alexander, M.A., of St. Andrews. Copies will j jj
be obtainable by Monday or Tuesday next at the branch office of The j jj
Spiritualist newspaper in Bloomsbury. I (j
Experiments by Professor Zollner and M. Aksakof. — The j j I
Hon. A. Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, in a recent article in the j j i
Vyedomosti, published in that city, says :—“ I myself have secured a j j j
medium with ropes, with the request that those ropes should be j j
removed with all the knots intact; and in a few moments the bonds j j j
were lying at my feet, without the numerous and cunningly made loops j j j
and knots having been disturbed. Another time I held the medium i j |
by the hands, and in addition had his arms tied to mine with a difficult I j j
and peculiar knotting of cords, when an iron ring (which I have pre- j j j
served) was passed in a few minutes on our arms thus bound together, j j j
But Zollner’s experiment is especially noticeable from the fact that it j j j
was made under conditions prescribed by himself, and which abso- j j
lutely precluded every possibility of fraud, and, still more important, j jj
they were based on bis own deductions from a scientific hypothesis,”
Notes and Queries of July 20, says :—
“Touching for the King’s Evil” (5th S. ix. 49, 236,
251, 336, 392).—Edward the Confessor was the first king
that touched for or cured the king’s evil, which ceremony
took place in 1058. He died at Westminster, January 4,
1066.
“ ‘ One ability he had which raised him above the pitch of
ordinary kings, that by his only touching and laying his
hand upon it he cured a disease, which from his curing is
called the king’s evil.’—Baker’s Chron* of the Kings of
England, fob. Bond., 1679, p. 18.”
In Haydn’s Dictionary of Dates, 1841, it is said :—
“f This vulgar credulity had in the age of Charles II.
arisen to such a height that in fourteen years 92,107 persons
were touched, and according to Wiseman, the king’s
physician, they were nearly all cured! Queen Anne
officially announced in the London Gazette, March 12,1712,
her royal intention to touch for the cure of the evil; and
touching for it continued a custom until it was wisely dis¬
couraged and ultimately dropped by George I, 1714.’ ”
We all have read of the astonishing curative power of
Valentine Greatrakes, who lived towards the end of the
seventeenth century. There was also De Loutherbourg, the
well-known painter ; Gassner, a Roman Catholic priest in
Swabia ; and an English gardener, named Levret, who used
to say that so much virtue went out of him that he was
more exhausted by touching thirty or forty people than by
digging eight roods of ground. Then we may be sure that
there is something real in respect to the influence of the
touch in the laying on of hands, which was the origin of the
putting forth the hand when the priest gives a blessing. No
doubt much is effected by the influence on the mind of the
patient in ordinary mesmeric practice, but still the special
influence of such persons as those I have named, and I may
also name myself, shows a real power of which the possessor
may become conscious.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.
MRS. HARDY-PERKINS’ WILLS.
Boston, July 2nd.
A hearing was had in the Probate Court before Judge McKim,
to-day, upon what is known as the Hardy-Perkins will case. The facts
are these:—Ezra G. Perkins, a contractor, formerly residing at Hyde-
park, having lost his first wife, espoused the cause of Spiritualism in
order to hold sweet communion with her, and in due course of time
became attached to the famous Spiritualistic exponent and medium,
Mary M. Hardy, who then resided with her husband, John Hardy, in
Concord-square, Boston, the scene of many test circles and the resort of
all classes of sceptics and believers. About eighteen months ago an
arrangement was made with Mr. Hardy whereby, on the payment of
5,000 dollars, he permitted Mrs. Hardy to obtain a Western divorce,
and soon thereafter she was married to Ezra G. Perkins by the Rev.
Dr. Yan Kleck, then rector of Christ (Episcopal) Church, Hyde-park,
who officiated at the Lord-Hicks wedding in New York. After the
wedding tour Mr. and Mrs. Perkins returned to Concord-square, where
the mystic circle was formed daily, and manifestations sought and
given in regular routine. In the Moody and Sankey excitemenjt Mrs.
Hardy visited the Tabernacle on a raw and chilly day, and contracted
a severe cold, which caused her death on the 14th of last January.
Mrs. Hardy-Perkins, as she was called after her second marriage,
was the possessor of considerable property, and on Dec. 20, 1877, made
a will, in which, after bequeathing legacies to her father, mother, sister,
and brother, she left the residue of her estate to Ezra G. Perkins.
This will bears the endorsement of the approval of Mr. Perkins, and
was made with his knowledge. After the funeral services over Mrs.
Hardy-Perkens, Mr. Perkins was astonished to l}e&r that she had made
another will, dated Jan. 1, 1878, in which all of her real estate was con¬
veyed to her sister, Orissa J. Smith, in trust for the other members of
the family. One half of her personal estate was to be given to u my
husband,” who was also to be an executor. Both of these wills were
filed in the Probate Court. Mr. Perkins petitioned that the first will
be proved, and that he be appointed executor. The relatives of Mrs.
Hardy-Perkins petitioned that the second will be proved, and that
Orissa be appointed executrix. A third petition was presented from
John Hardy, in which he declared that Mrs. Hardy-Perkins was his
wife, and that she meant him when she left half of her personal property
to “my husband.” He prays that both wills be declared void, and
that, in accordance with the statutes, he be given all of the personal pro¬
perty. If either will was to be allowed, Hardy was in favour of the
second will, whereby “my husband” was to receive one-half. Perkins
has persistently claimed that he was the husband, and he also claimed
that the second will was never signed by Mrs. Hardy-Perkins, or, if it
was, that it was done in a trance, and so is of no effect in the eye of the
law. The estate consists of a farm in Exeter, N.H., where Mrs.
Hardy-Perkins's father and mother reside; the house in Concord-
July 26, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
39
square, and bonds, notes, &c., to the value of 20,000 dols. It is alleged
by leading Spiritualists that the spirit of Mrs. Hardy-Perkins has ap¬
peared in this world at test circles, but has persistently refused to solve
the problem of her wills.
At the hearing to-day the question of the validity of the second will
was first considered. La Roy Sunderland, of Quincy, testified that he
was acquainted with Mrs. Perkins, although he never knew her by that
name. He had known her as Mrs. Hardy for thirteen years. He went
to her house on the 1st January at her request and signed the will. He
asked her if it was her free will, and she said yes. She was perfectly
sane. He signed his name as witness in the presence of the other wit¬
nesses and in her presence. The other witnesses signed in his pre¬
sence and in her presence, and at her request.
Cross-examined by Mr. Avery—Didn’t put my hands on Mrs.
Perkins when she was sick; did not make any “ passes” over her; did
not soothe her by the exercise of my will. Have been practising a sort
of psychological control over people’s minds, “ and so do you,” said
witness to counsel. Have lectured on mental science: practise that as
a profession. Have never used mesmeric influences; never believed in
mesmerism; I believe in the science of the human mind by which I con¬
verted people as a minister. When I practice as a doctor I practice the
same thing that I did when a minister. Witness detailed the situation
of the parties and the circumstances attending the signing of the will.
He said : “I think one of the ladies sat on the bed with Mrs. Hardy
and held her up. I have lived alone, separate from my wife, for thirty
years. It was a mutual separation. I never had but one wife ; never
wanted but one.”
John Hardy was then called. He testified that he was married to
the deceased woman, and was her husband, until another man came
into his family in that position. In reply to whether he was aware of
his having been divorced, he said he did not know. He made no ob¬
jection to the arrangement between Mr. Perkins and his wife. He never
knew of any divorce papers. He had been married three times, the
last time a little over a year ago, a little while after Mr. Perkins had
married Mrs. Hardy. He did not know that he was a bigamist, and did
not think that the divorce procured by Mrs. Hardy was good for any¬
thing, that is, at the present time. He did not authorise any one to
appear for him in the proceedings in the divorce court where the divorce
was obtained.
In considering the issue of the proper appointment of executors, the
court decided that Mr. Hardy was not a proper person for such a
position, as he had parted with his wife for a consideration. Mr.
Perkins was the husband who would be executor under the will, and
sureties would be demanded. An appeal from the decision will be made.
—New York Sun, July 2nd.
SPIRITUALISM IN MACCLESFIELD.
The people of Macclesfield are blessed with many advantages—a
handsomely laid out park, enchanting scenery of mountain landscape
round the town, and pure air which has quite an invigorating effect
upon those visitors who arrive from smoky ’centres less favourably
situated. The Macclesfield Spiritualists are all earnest, energetic,
hardworking people. Amongst the leading workers of the place may be
mentioned Mr. and Mrs. Hammond, who, feeling for the crippled con¬
dition of the Society there for room and means, nobly built them a
handsome hall, which will seat comfortably about 150 persons. Other
active Spiritualists are Messrs. George and Joseph Rodgers (the former
the active secretary of the society) and Mrs. Woollum.
All the people speak highly of the work carried on in their neighbour¬
hood by the Lancashire District Committee, an organisation by whose
efforts weak and struggling societies are supplied with speakers, trance
and normal, and who facilitate a change of local mediums throughout
the district. Macclesfield being included, they have had, through the
agency of the committee, Messrs. Morse, Colville, Wallis, Johnston,
and Jackson, trance speakers, supplied to them; also Messrs. Lamont,
Shepherd, Holt, and other normal speakers. Some of these lecturers
they could not have had were it not for the pecuniary aid of the
Lancashire District Committee. Mr. Colville is very well thought of,
and the generous manner in which he gave a series of lectures without
fee to provide the Society with a harmonium is worthy of mention. It
is not often that a public medium is in such a position as to
be able to render such aid, and it is gratifying to know his kind¬
ness is thoroughly appreciated. Several circles are held in the town,
and there are many good mediums in the place. The young Bamford
Brothers are still in good form, but are not at present giving seances,
on account of the illness of their father, who has been so indisposed
during the last twelve months that he has been compelled to give up
business. It is to be hoped, with his recovery, these young mediums
will take the field again. A seance was held on Sunday night in the
Society’s Rooms, after Mr. Coates’ lecture, and two ladies, private
local mediums, xavoured those present with an exhibition of their
powers; several good tests were given to different members of the
circle.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
At 6.30 a lecture was delivered by Mr. Coates, subject—“Private
Experiences in Spiritualism, and the Lessons derived therefrom.”
Among the incidents related might be mentioned one of value, so far as
spirit identity is concerned. The speaker said that during his first
investigations he attended a seance, where all present were comparative
strangers to him. One of the mediums present was controlled by what
was termed a “ strange influence.” The purported control declared
herself to be a sister-in-law to him (Mr. Coates). She said that she
had died three weeks previously at her home in America, and several
other statements of a private character were given. When her name
was asked for, the answer promptly came, “ Florence.” The statements
of the medium or control were not believed at the time, especially as
the sister of the supposed control had received a letter from her written
in good spirits, and with all the buoyancy and vivacity of good health
and fair prospects. Just a week from the day upon which the
memorable sitting was held, a letter came from the folks at home
stating that Florence was dead, had died of “ galloping consumption,”
and was buried, as stated by the control, in the old churchyard at
home. Here was undoubted evidence of an intelligence at work
outside the minds of the sitters present, and who communicated circum¬
stances which had taken place three thousand five hundred miles away
in America. Mr. Coates did not even know that he had a sister-in-law
named Florence; neither had his wife, or any person present at that
sitting, the slightest knowledge of the facts communicated, and which
were afterwards verified in such a remarkable manner. It was not
mind-reading, it was not clairvoyance; it was just what it purported
to be—a communication from a disembodied spirit, marked with the
identity of the individuality it claimed to be. Amongst the lessons
afforded by Spiritualism was “ that a knowledge of Spiritualism took
away the fear of death.” As an illustration the following incident was
related. The speaker said he had it from the most trustworthy
sources, and that it was fully substantiated by the Irish and
Liverpool press : — “ Whilst the s.s. Idaho was on her last
voyage from America to this country, one of her passengers, a Mrs.
Anna Loomis (Chittenden), a Spiritualist and clairvoyant, had an inti¬
mation that the vessel would be lost, but that all the passengers would
be saved and landed in Liverpool. The captain, officers, and many of
the passengers were informed of the clairvoyant statement, which was
looked upon at the time as ‘ visionary.’ What was the result ? During
a fog the s.s. Idaho struck on the Connebeg Rock, off the Irish coast,
and went down to the bottom twenty-two minutes after, during which
time every soul was saved alive. Well, what about the Spiritualist ?
She had no fear of death; her spirited example, her determination not to
leave the deck till every other woman was out of the vessel into one of
the lifeboats, her encouraging words, cheerful songs (although she has
lost everything), whilst the boats were rowed away from the scene of the
wreck, were recognised by the hard, weather-beaten sailors, by kissing
her hands and even shedding tears in her presence when they got
ashore. In Liverpool, Capt. Holmes and the officers did a graceful
thing, and presented this Spiritualistic lady with a handsome basket of
flowers ‘ as a slight token of the courage, tact, and presence of mind,
displayed by Mrs. Chittenden during the wreck of the Idaho! The
lady had no fear of death, but full reliance in the communication given
through her, and no doubt, therefore, was able to give that attention
to the welfare of others, and to exhibit that presence of mind and dis¬
play the courage which were the theme of admiration for several days
after the wreck. So much for Spiritualism.’’ The lecturer most
earnestly impressed upon his hearers that if Spiritualists had great
privileges they also had great duties, “and that they‘should endeavour
to faithfully carry them out.”
A conference of the Lancashire District Committee will be held on
August 4th in the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-street, Manchester.
Meetings at 2.30 and 6.30, when business will be considered, means
obtained, and work laid out for next quarter. The meetings will be
addressed by Messrs. Lamont, Shepherd, and Coates, of Liverpool,
and Mr. Johnston, of Hyde.
Every man has a paradise around him till he sins, and the angel of
an accusing conscience drives him from his Eden. And even then
there are holy hours, when this angel sleeps, and man comes back, and
with the innocent eyes of a child looks into his lost paradise again—
into the broad gates and rural solitudes of nature.—Longfellow.
Some Old American Laws.—There is a long list of these quaint old
laws, a few of which will suffice to exhibit the condition of the society
in which they existed. Some of them display a narrowness of mind
and ignorance which seem now almost incredible, and which happily
have with similar prejudices been long since swept away, viz.:—“ No
Quaker or Dissenter from the established worship of the Dominion
shall be allowed to give a vote for the election of magistrate or any
other officer.” “ No food or lodging shall be offered to a Quaker or a
heretic.” “No priest shall abide in the Dominion. He shall be
banished, and suffer death on his return.” “Priests may be seized by
any one without a warrant.” “No one shall run on the Sabbath day,
or walk in his garden, or elsewhere, except reverently to and from
meeting.” “No one shall travel, cook victuals, make beds (!), sweep
houses, cut hair, or shave on the Sabbath day.” “ No woman shall
kiss her children on the Sabbath, nor on a fasting day.” (We can
imagine this law as a penance on fasting days, but why should maternal
love be smothered on a Sunday ?—“ the Sabbath was made for man.”)
“No minister shall keep a school.” “No one shall read Common
Prayer Books, keep Christmas or set days, eat minced pies, dance, play
cards, or play on any instrument of music, except the drum, trumpet,
and jew’s-barp.” “To pick an ear of corn from a neighbour’s garden
shall be deemed theft.” Well, then, “ blue laws ” still exist in some of
our English provinces, where a child gathering a flower from a garden
is imprisoned for theft 1 And, again, a “ blue law,” but of a more
rational character, has been partially re-established among us, as the
following:—“The Selectmen, on finding children ignorant, may take
them away from their parents and put them in better hands at the
expense of their parents.” Some others of these old laws might
creditably be re-established among us, and perhaps to the purification
of English society ; as for instance—“ A man that strikes his wife shall
be fined ten pounds.” “Adultery shall be punished with death.”
“ Married persons shall live together or be imprisoned.” “A drunkard
shall have a master appointed by the Selectmen, who are to debar him
from the liberty of buying and selling,” and—“ Whosoever shall publish
a lie to the prejudice of his neighbour shall be set in the stocks, or be
whipped ten stripes,”—OroZdew Hourst
40
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 26, 1878.
THE SCOTCH HIGH COURT OF JUSTICIARY.
A SOMNAMBULIST CHARGED WITH MURDER.
A sitting of this court was held yesterday in Edinburgh, the
Lord Justice-Clerk on the bench. The Solicitor-General and Messrs.
Muirhead, Burnet, and Blair, advocates-depute, attended for the
Crown.
In the High Court of Justiciary, Edinburgh, yesterday, Simon
Fraser, Lime-street, South Side, Glasgow, was placed in the dock,
charged with murder, in so far as on the evening of the 9th or
morning of the 10th April last, he assaulted his son Simon, eighteen
months old, by lifting him from his bed and violently throwing or
dashing him several times against the floor or walls of the room. The
consequence was that the boy’s skull was fractured, his brain lacerated,
and he died shortly afterwards.
On being asked to plead, prisoner said he was guilty in his sleep, but
not guilty in his senses. A special defence was set up that the crime
was committed while prisoner was asleep.
The Solicitor-General and Mr. Blair, advocate-depute, prosecuted,
and Mr. C. S. Dickson defended.
Janet M'Ewen deponed that about one o’clock on the morning of 10th
April last she heard a loud knocking at her door, and on looking out
she saw the prisoner. He asked her to go and see his bairn. She
went and saw prisoner’s wife, who was screaming with the child on
her knee. Prisoner was terribly excited. He was wringing his
hands, and seemed to be in great distress of mind about the child.
She asked who had done this, when prisoner replied, “ It was me that
did it, mistress; I did it through my sleep.” The child was un¬
conscious when she got into the house. She asked prisoner if he had
been in the habit of rising in his sleep, and he said, “ Yes, when a
boy.” He told her that he had considered he had been dreaming;
that he thought he saw a beast running through the room. It leapt
into the bed, and he seized it to draw it out. Witness sent prisoner
off for the doctor. Prisoner called out frequently about his child, and
seemed to be in great distress. He called the child “ My dear,” and
“ My dear little son.” He was not pretending ; he was quite sincere
in his distress. Prisoner went for the doctor and his stepmother.
Witness had never seen prisoner before that, night, and she only knew
the wife to say good-day to. The child died about three o’clock in the
morning, or about two hours after she had been called in.
John Pritchard, sawyer, Rutherglen-road, deponed that he went out
to work in the same place with the prisoner. Between four and five
o’clock on the morning of the 10th April, witness was wakened by
prisoner coming to his door. In reply to a question, prisoner said that
wee Simon was dead, and that he had been the cause of it himself.
He said he had been dreaming about' a wild beast. He got up and
seized the child thinking it was the wild beast, and he struck it against
the wall or floor — he could not tell which. Prisoner was greatly
distressed at what had happened.
Cross-examined—Witness was in the habit of calling at Fraser’s
house. He was very fond of his child ; none more so. Prisoner
was a very steady man so far as witness saw. In witness’s opinion
there was a little want about him, although he never saw any
appearance of drink.
By the Solicitor-General—He was sometimes incoherent in his talk.
Dr. Alexander Jamieson, Main-street, Gorbals, Glasgow, deponed
that on the morning of 10th April he had been called in to see a child by
prisoner, who said he thought he had killed it. He said he had done
it in sleep. On reaching prisoner’s house witness found the child in
convulsions. The child was severely injured on the forehead. The
injury was such as would be caused by the head of the child being
driven against the wall or floor. Witness was confident the child was
dying, and it died about twenty minutes to three o’clock. After its
death it was found that the skull to a great extent had been fractured.
At the door, and before leaving, witness asked how it had happened,
and prisoner said he dreamt that a wild beast had been attacking him,
and in self-defence he caught the wild beast. Witness asked if he was
in the habit of getting up through his sleep, and he said frequently.
Then witness asked if he had ever used violence, and he answered
that he had, to his half-sister and his wife. Prisoner seemed to feel
very keenly the position in which he was placed, and he was greatly
distressed. Such a thing was known in medical experience as a person
acting in that way in his sleep. There had been cases where people
thought they were being attacked by other people, but there had been
no cases of a person in sleep mistaking another for an animal. There
was no word to describe a person in such a condition except somnam¬
bulism. Q. You may have somnambulism without delusion 1 —
A. Somnambulism is only a dream, and a dream is a delusion. People
in a somnambulistic state go about with their eyes open. The fact
that the eyes were open was not necessarily an indication that the
person was not asleep.
Cross-examined—He had known several cases of somnambulism.
He did not regard somnambulism as insanity. Q. It was a sane con¬
dition of mind ?—A. He did not say it was ; but a man might be in
that condition whether sane or insane. He judged of a man whether
he was sane or insane when he was in his senses.
By the Court—It was an exaggeration of sleep, just as a dream.
Q. Have you any reason to suppose that the statement made in the
distress of the man was feigned 1—A. None whatever. I thought it
was genuine grief.
James Davidson, detective, deponed to having apprehended the
prisoner on the charge for which he stood committed.
Simon Fraser, senior, Thistle-street, Glasgow, said he was father of
the prisoner. He was the eldest living son by witness’s first marriage.
Prisoner was twenty-seven years of age, and had been married for
about three years. Ever since prisoner’s infancy there had been a
dulness and stupidness about him. He could not learn his lessons
!j readily at school. It was quite a common thing for him to rise during
I the night and go through capers. Sometimes he supposed the house
I was on fire, and sometimes he was fighting with dogs and horses.
| "When in this condition his eyes were open, but having seen him so
i often in this state I knew that he was not awake. He spoke, but what
I he said was nonsense. If witness spoke to him he wakened up and
[• returned an answer. The fit then went off. These fits would continue
| for a few seconds—the longest he had ever seen having been for a
| minute or two. Witness had seen prisoner using violence during these
fits. When the prisoner was fourteen or fifteen years of age, witness
| was wakened out of his sleep by his son, who was on the top of him,
j fighting with a white horse. Prisoner struck witness a blow on the
j nose, which caused it to bleed. On another occasion he seized his half-
| sister Elspeth by the throat; and on a third occasion, thinking his
! house was on fire, he caught his wife by the legs and pulled her out
| of bed. When prisoner came to his senses he was ashamed at what
he had done. On another occasion, when the family were living on
| an island in Norway, prisoner got out of bed and rushed into the
| water to save his sister Elspeth, who he thought was drowning.
! Prisoner was of a kindly disposition, and he was extra fond of his wife
| and child. Q. Did he ever harm himself on these occasions ?—A. Once,
when jumping over the bed he broke his toe.
Elspeth Shearer, or Fraser, wife of the preceding witness, and step¬
mother of the prisoner, deponed that on 9th of April last prisoner and
his wife and child came to see her. Prisoner was quite steady and all
right j and he did not get any drink in her house. He was a man
I who could take a dram, but she never saw him the worse of drink.
| Prisoner was very fond of his child, and he and his wife and child
were a happy family. Witness then gave evidence corroborative of
| her husband as to the habit of prisoner rising out of his bed during
the night, and said that she tried to cure him of his habit by putting
tubs of water at his bedside, so that when he stepped into them he
wakened up. When in these fits she said prisoner did not seem to
be conscious of what he was doing. She was quite sure he did not
know what he was doing.
i By the Court—She had seen prisoner get up during the day as well
| as during the night.
i Cross-examined—Prisoner has been working since he was twelve or
thirteen years of age, and he has been providing for himself since he
| was fifteen or sixteen.
Elspeth Fraser, half-sister of prisoner, also deponed to prisoner
rising in the night time, to his having gone into the water to save her,
| he supposing that she was drowning, and to his catching her by the
j throat. On these occasions she said his eyes were wide open. When
j he caught her by the throat he afterwards said he thought she was
} going to be burned.
Elizabeth Brown, or Parker, Dundee, said she was prisoner’s
mother-in-law. She deponed to having visited her son-in-law in
Glasgow, and on that occasion he got up in the night-time, think¬
ing there was a dog in the house. Witness meant to have stayed
a night longer, but she was so frightened that she left next day. She
thought it was want of education that made him so droll.
The foreman of the jury rose at this stage, and said he had been
desired by his fellow-jurymen to say that there was little use of going
on with the case, as the jury were all agreed that the man was not
responsible for what he was doing.
The Lord Justice-Clerk—I quite agree with you; but I think the
testimony of one or two medical men would be desirable.
Dr. Yellowlees, superintendent of Gartnavel Lunatic Asylum, was
! then called, and deponed that he had examined the prisoner on the 5th
of June last. He had heard the history of the case in court, and that
history was quite consistent with what prisoner had said to him.
What do you consider to be the nature of the case from a medical
| point of view ?—I think somnambulism is a state of unhealthy brain
I activity coming on during sleep, of very varying intensity; sometimes
little more than restless sleep, and sometimes developing delusions and
I violence, and amounting really to insanity. This man labours under
somnambulism in its most aggravated form.
Do you attribute his condition to mental disorder ?—To the abnormal
condition of the brain. This is the case in every instance of delusion,
[ even where there is no insanity. I think that somnambulism always
I implies undue activity of the brain, and sometimes it is attributable to
very temporary causes. It is very difficult indeed to come to a con-
Ij elusion as to the moving cause. It is supposed to be the varying con¬
ditions of circulation. •
Do you mean that owing to some defect in the circulation in the brain
the controlling power, by which man overcomes delusions arising in
sleep, is not active ?—It is suspended for a time owing to the defect in
the circulation, but that is a mere theory. It is an extremely occult
subject.
I suppose there is no doubt that a person in such a state as this is as
unconscious of the actuality of the thing which he is doing as a person
who is insane ?—Quite as unconscious. The word insane really describes
his condition or nature.
The Court—He is just as much under a delusion as if he were
insane ?—The delusion may or may not take an active form. It is in
proportion to the extent to which the abnormal activity of the brain goes
on that these delusions are carried out in actuality.
Cross-examined by Mr. Dickson—Were you able to form any con¬
clusion, so far as your experience goes, as to his mental condition ?—I
thought him below the average in intellect decidedly; but he was
practically sane when I examined him. I have no experience of
somnambulism; that is to say, I have not seen a man in this condition.
Is there any known forms of insanity under which you would say
somnambulism occurs ?—No; but somnambulism often develops a con¬
dition equivalent to insanity.
By the Court—Is a man acting under the influence of somnambulism
July 26, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST/
41
responsible for his actions ?—No; he is unconscious of what he is doing*
He has not true perception of the world around him.
The condition you are speaking of is a condition of sleep ?—It is a
condition of sleep—at least, it is a condition occurring only during sleep
—and it is altogether an abnormal condition. It is not common in an
intense form, but it is not uncommon in a smaller or minor form. I
would consider prisoner sufficiently sane to be responsible for his acts
when not in that condition.
Dr. Alex. Robertson, physician and surgeon, City Poorhouse, Glasgow,
deponed—■! have had considerable experience of abnormal conditions
of the brain. I know the facts of the case, and I am of opinion that
prisoner was insane when he committed this act.
Could you bring it under the category of disease ?—It most nearly
approaches mania. The fact that he roared out, that he was violent and
dangerous, had extravagant delusions under excitement along with un¬
consciousness of the act, in my opinion constitute insanity. It is my
opinion that this somnambulism was just short fits of insanity which
came on during sleep. In medical parlance there is no name for this
particular kind of delusion. It is altogether exceptional. Prisoner is
weak intellectually.
In what respect does somnambulism differ from a dream except in
degree ?—A dreamer fancies he sees and feels objects, but this man
really did see and feel.
By the Court—It is something more than an exaggerated dream.
Examination continued—Will you explain what more the prisoner
did than to fancy he saw something ?—Well, I believe this man actually
did see.
What do you mean by “ actually did see ? ” Do you mean that he
saw a thing that was not in existence ?—He saw and felt a child in
reality, and mistook it for a beast.
Is it not the most ordinary thing in ordinary sleep for a person to
think that he is getting choked by part of a blanket getting into his
mouth ?—There is a difference here. In the one case the senses are
wakened, and in the other they are not.
Do you know any distinction between a man being awake and his
senses being awake ?—I think in that condition of mind it often happens
that part of the mind is active, and to a certain extent the other faculties
are not active.
Is it not the case in ordinary sleep that part of the brain is active and
the other is not?—I think that generally all the senses lie in abeyance.
The opinion I have formed is that this case is an exaggerated condition
of somnambulism, and that condition of somnambulism constitutes
insanity.
Cross-examined—I have known many instances of somnambulism,
and none of these were regarded as insane. So far as I saw this man
he was of weak intellect, but of sound mind.
By the Court—I would by no means certify him as insane. Such
cases as his are exceedingly rare ; that is to say, cases of somnambulism
leading to violence. Sleep-walking is not rare; but I would not put
the sleep-walker in the same category.
Dr. Clouston, of Morningside Lunatic Asylum, Edinburgh, was the
only witness called for the defence. He deponed—I had an interview
with the prisoner yesterday for an hour, and to-day for ten minutes. I
have heard the history of the case. I cannot detect any symptoms of
unsoundness of mind or insanity, but I consider that the prisoner was
the subject while asleep of somnambulism. Intellectually, I find him
to be a man of fair judgment for his education. His memory is not
good. He seemed to be a particularly affectionate man. One thing
struck me very much in my conversations with him. I asked him if he
felt very much the death of his child, and he said that he did, but as
his wife felt it so much more he concealed his own feelings and appeared
calm for her sake. I once had a case similar to this one. It was the
case of a missionary connected with a church in Yorkshire. He was a
most respectable man. He had been in ill health, and on one occasion,
in a town whither he had gone for a change, he went to see a wax-work,
which made a great impression on his imagination, especially the figure
of some murdered person. He came home and went to bed early that
night. His wife came into the room about an hour afterwards, and he
started up thinking she was a robber coming to rob his house, and he
would have throttled her if a neighbour had not come to the rescue.
This was a man in whom there was no trace of insanity. He consulted
me, and I treated him, not for insanity, but for somnambulism, which
differs, as I think, from insanity.
By the Court—Is there any distinction between nightmare and sleep
of this kind ?—None, except that there is no muscular action. They
are, however, very analagous.
What distinction would you draw between mania and somnambulism?
—The one occurs in a waking state, and the other is a condition during
sleep.
Cross-examined by the Solicitor-General—Is there anything which
would prevent actions such as these of the prisoner being classed as
insane except that they are very infrequent ?—Yes, and occur during
sleep.
Does that make any difference ?—Yes, essentially.
Why, may a man not be insane although the fit only comes on
while he is asleep ?—I should say the condition is a physiological condi¬
tion of unconsciousness, during which the brain rests. Hitherto the
medical profession has not called anything occurring during sleep
insanity.
Is there any ground for holding that the delusion of a man in a state
of insanity should not fall within the category of insanity ?—It may at
some future time; it has not been so reckoned yet. There is an
abnormal condition of the brain producing delusion and violence.
Is that not just the same as insanity ?—We do not recognise it as
such. I do not reckon this case insanity in any form. It takes place in
sleep. Delusions in that state are different from those engendered by
insanity, Generally insane men have delusions. A sane man may
!j have delusions during sleep, which, while sleep lasts, he believes are
true. In that state he is not morally responsible when that develops
into action, because he is unconscious of the true nature of the act he
| is doing.
j Is there any distinction between a case of somnambulism such as the
present, and an ordinary case of sleep-walking, except, the insanity of
| it ?—I see no essential difference. In this particular case the man’s
delusions led him to dangerous actions apparently. The senses are not
| more particularly awakened in the one case than in the other.
This concluded the evidence.
; The Lord Justice-Clerk then addressed the jury, and said he supposed
|) I they had not the slightest doubt that when this most unhappy and
| a lamentable event took place, the prisoner, who was certainly to be
i) j pitied, was totally unconscious of the act which he had done; and there
| (I seemed to be not the slightest doubt that when he was labouring under
| \ | this delusion he was in a state of somnambulism, and acting under the
! > | belief that he was trying to kill a beast. His Lordship supposed that
j (j the account the prisoner gave of this tragic event was a true account.
| j | It was a matter of some consequence to the prisoner whether he was to
I)! be considered as insane, or simply as not responsible, and his future
| (j might be, to a great extent, dependent on the verdict which they
j (| might return on the question, whether a state of somnambulism, such
| i as this, was to be considered as a state of insanity or not. But his
( Lordship did not desire that they should be troubled by settling this
( point. It was a question as to which scientific authority was not agreed.
| He would suggest that their verdict should run—“The jury unani-
/ mously find that the panel killed his child when he was unconscious of
( the nature of the act which he committed by reason of a condition of
j somnambulism, and that the panel is not responsible for his act at the
( time.” If this verdict met their views they might return it, I or they
) might, if they chose, more specifically express their impression.
/ The Foreman, after a minute’s consultation with the jury, said they
j adopted the terms of the verdict unanimously.
| j The Solicitor-General then said that in consequence of the verdict it
| seemed to him that the most advisable course was to adjourn: the case
for a short time, so that possibly some arrangement might bei come to
j with those who were responsible for the prisoner, to see, that the public
/ were kept safe, and this might obviate the necessity for the Court deli-
( vering a judgment on a verdict of this kind, which was peculiar. He
) therefore moved that the case be adjourned till Wednesday for
) | sentence.
(| This was agreed to.—Glasgow Herald, July \Qth.
At the High Court of Justiciary on Wednesday last week, on Fraser
(| being again placed at the bar, the verdict was read over by the clerk.
II The Lord Justice-Clerk said the effect of the verdict of the jury had
/1 been to set prisoner at liberty. The jury had come to the conclusion,
\ i in which his Lordship concurred, that prisoner was not responsible for
j i the dreadful act which he had committed, seeing that he had been
(I unconscious at the time of what he was doing, and that there was no
(| ground for finding that he was at the time insane. The result of the
11 verdict was important in this respect, that it informed the public of
i | the grounds upon which the verdict was given. His Lordship needed
( not to say to prisoner, however anxious, as he must be, in the painful
i circumstances under which this investigation had taken place, of the
(| great responsibility laid on him. The public prosecutor, his Lordship
III understood, had come to some arrangement with prisoner and his
) | relatives, which might have the effect of guai’ding against any possible
( j repetition of such a disaster. His Lordship thought he was quite
\) right in impressing upon the prisoner that he was bound to take every
) | possible means of curing himself of that unfortunate and involuntary
(! habit which had already landed him in so much misery.
11 The prisoner was then dismissed from the bar. The arrangement
) I which we believe has been come to is that in future the prisoner shall
j (| sleep by himself.
j >! Mr. Charles Blackburx and Miss Blackburn are in Belgium,
j \ | Prodigious Memories.—At one period of his life Seneca could repeat
; 1 . 2,000 words precisely as they had been pronounced. Gassendi had
I (| acquired by heart 6,000 Latin verses, and the whole of Lucretius’s
j) I poem, De Rerum Natura. In order to give his memory sufficient
j) j exercise, he was in the habit of reciting 600 verses from different
| languages. Sanderson, another mathematician, was able to repeat all
| ) | Horace’s odes, and a great part of other Latin authors. La Crose, after
i) | listening to twelve verses, in as many languages, could not only repeat
i \ | them in the order in which he had heard them, but could also transpose
i) I them. Pope had an excellent memory, and many persons have amused
i) i themselves by looking through his writings, and pointing out how often
j (j he had brought it into play. He was able to turn with great readiness
> to the place in a book where he had seen any passage that had struck
j ) him. John Leyden had a very peculiar faculty for getting things by
11! rote, and he could repeat correctly any long dry document, such as a
j; i deed or Act of Parliament, after having heard it read; but if he wanted
I) j any single paragraph, he was obliged to begin at the commencement,
j \ I and proceed with his recital until he came to what he required.
|) i There was a French novelist who, being, like our Richardson, a
| (I printer, composed a volume in types, and thus the book was printed
| {j without having been written. Bishop Warburton had a prodigious
5 j memory, which he taxed to an extraordinary degree. His Divine Lega-
I j | tion would lead one to suppose that he had indefatigably collected and
j) j noted down the innumerable facts and quotations there introduced ; but
i)! the fact is that his only note-book was an old^ almanac, in which he
iji occasionally jotted down a thought. Scaliger obtained so perfect an
|) | acquaintance with one Latin book, that he offered to repeat any passage,
) 11 with a dagger at his breast, to be used against him in case of a failure of
i j i memory,—Chambers1 Journals
THE' SPIRITUALIST,
July 26, 1878.
A CAST OF A MATERIALISED SPIRIT FOOT.
BX WILLIAM OXLEY.
The above engravings represent with exactitude a plaster
cast of a materialised spirit foot, now in my possession,
from a paraffin wax mould, presented to me by a spirit
form known to us as Bertie.
Dr. Monck was the active medium. I use the word
active, because I am inclined to think that the presence of
another medium, Mrs. , had much to do with the
matter, as we had frequently seen the same form, and had
had moulds through her mediumship when Dr. Monck was
not present. In the present instance the foot, though
similar in shape and size to what we had had before, is much
more perfect in detail, and this doubtless was the result of
the union of the two medial powers and the general harmony
of the circle.
In justice to the medium it should be stated that he had
never been to the house where the seance was held until
the evening in question, when I took him and introduced
him to the circle, which was assembled and waiting our
arrival ,* and it was only then that it was suggested that
we should sit for the obtaining of moulds.
The foot mould was given on the same occasion as the
hand already illustrated in The Spiritualist of May 25th,
so that it is needless to give further details concerning the
tests which were applied. Our experience has proved that
after using all proper precautions to prevent imposition,
and having satisfied ourselves of the honesty of our
mediums and the genuineness of the phenomena, any
tests on our part were needless, and were obstructive
rather than otherwise; and we soon found that the tests
supplied by the operating powers themselves were far
more satisfactory and convincing than any we could sug¬
gest or apply.
Of this class is the present manifestation ; for altogether
apart from the honesty or otherwise of the medium, the
mould and cast furnish their own test, as the genuineness of
the phenomenon is proved by the object produced. And
it stands, as long as it continues to exist, a proof palpable
of the exercise of a force or power that is subject to no
known natural law, and as such it is a silent but powerful
witness, challenging the self-sufficient scepticism of the
hour, and inviting the attention of the student of a higher
and more interior law than is yet recognised in the vocabu-'
lary of science. For there are mathematical problems
involved (as will be presently shown) which cannot be
solved by any proposition of Euclid, or any (at present)
known formula.
There is a class of persons who, having neither time nor
inclination to investigate, whose interests or predilections
j 11 lead them to pronounce all exhibitions of supra-mundane
! | power fraudulent—such have a ready-made theory, and
| j j will tell right off hand “ how these things are done but
111 unfortunately for the patient and plodding experimenter
II j and investigator, they do all but the very thing which would
III prove their assertions, viz., produce like things under like
| circumstances. To such any testimony is valueless, but
| to practical men who understand the science and art of
11 modelling (of which the foot now illustrated is a specimen),
| .I as well as to those who know that a solid sphere three
I inches in diameter can never pass through a ring only two
11 inches in diameter, the cast foot presents certain features
| j which at least will excite wonder.
11 The cast foot is eight inches long by three inches in the
( widest part at the ball, and nine inches round the instep ;
j the top of the foot is 2£ by 2| inches, and through this
| opening must have come the whole of the substance forming
the foot; and yet the mould was whole, without a split,
| or rupture, or seam.
| Like the hand already referred to, the mould was given
j in a similar manner by the spirit form Bertie, who pro-
| jected her foot with the mould upon it over the table
! round which the visitors sat, and asking me to take it, I
11 took hold of it, when in a moment the foot was withdrawn
111 and the mould left in my hands, I brought the mould
I | home, and next morning took it to a practical modeller,
| j Mr. Beniditto Lavarno, who filled it with plaster of Paris
| ! and melted the wax off in hot water. He pronounced it
| an unmistakable human foot, but could in no way account
| for the mould, as such a specimen was entirely beyond his
I art. He could understand dipping a human foot into
I melted wax, and thus forming a mould; but how to get it
out again without a rupture, and all in one piece, he could
not understand.
Supposing it possible that the foot might be drawn
through the opening above the ankle, yet it would so
stretch the wax that all definition would disappear; and
the cast shows nothing of this, but the smooth parts and
cuticle marks are all perfectly delineated. Under a power-
I ful glass the pores of the skin and cuticle curves are beau-
! tifully clear and distinct, quite corresponding to a natural
| human foot, and which no model or artificial lay figure
could supply.
The “ naturalness ” of the foot is shown by the over¬
lapping second toe (no artist or even “impostor” would
dream of making such a model), which is f of an inch
across the nail, and only i an inch where it joins the foot.
But the most extraordinary and astounding feat per¬
formed by the materialised form will be seen by referring
to Figures 2 and 3. Figure 2 shows a line section of the
mould corresponding to the plan view or sole of the foot.
The division of the toes, with connection of the same with
the foot, was formed by a vertical ridge of wax, tapering
from f of an inch at bottom (in some parts) to a fine hair
line at the top. The vertical thickness of the ball of the
toe is barely an inch, and the height of the dividing ridge
is | of an inch, thus leaving not quite Jive-eighths of an inch
for the toe itself to be drawn through, and yet that the toe
was withdrawn without injury to this delicate dividing
substance is proved by the curved linear cuticle marks
(about 50 to the inch) which plainly appear on the toes
| and sole right up to the point of intersection,
j It must be seen at a glance (see Figure 3) that this
j dividing ridge is at right angles to the line of draft, and
| that it is a physical impossibility to draw out, in an ordi-
I nary manner, the toes without entirely destroying this ver-
| tical projection.
j There are several other strange points connected with
j the cast, but the above is quite sufficient to cause us to
I look for some other elucidation of the mystery than that
j supplied by any knowledge of mortal art. Accepting my
j testimony as true, that such a specimen exists, supported
| by the testimony (if need be) of six others who witnessed,
j along with myself, the phenomenon (for such undoubtedly
j it is), then I am bold to say that the spiritual theory is the
j truest and simplest, and stands good until disproved.
II A fact such as the cast now illustrates disposes at once
11 of all allegations of fraud or confederacy, as no amount of
“ these could produce a wax mould all in one piece, and the
July 26, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
43
cast therefrom a perfect reproduction of a human foot, | \ i
under the circumstances narrated, or, in fact, under any j j I
circumstances other than those known as supra-mundane, j j j
or spiritual. k j
The two materialised forms who produced the hand and j) j
foot moulds are well-known, and are as recognisable as j j
any of our mortal friends, for we have seen them at |||
different houses on many different occasions, and have |)|
seen them singly and together. Once they formed from a m
white vapoury cloud into substantial and materialised | j ]
figures, with drapery as real to the touch as that worn by j j
mortal ladies, and they gradually dematerialised before |
our very eyes. j j
On another occasion when the form Lily was showing j
herself at the opening of the curtains behind which the j
medium was sitting, I asked permission to look behind the |
curtain, which was granted. Drawing the curtain aside, I j
saw the form not quite fully developed, for I saw under the j j
drapery where the feet should have been. She was about | /
four feet in height, and appeared suspended about a foot |
from the floor. She put out her hand, which I grasped and i
held during the time I conversed with her, and I noticed the j
lips were flexible, as they moved during the time of articula¬
tion ; the voice was not full, but still sufficiently distinct for
me to understand her replies to my question. She was
clothed with a golden-coloured robe, and had a white crown,
with sparkling jewels; and what amazed me, I noticed that
the cabinet was light with a luminosity which appeared to
emanate from the figure, and was brilliant close to the form.
I did not see the medium, and whether it was a transfigura¬
tion, or whether the form hid the medium from view, I know
not.
I found in these experiments that we always had the best
phenomena when the company was composed of the mem¬
bers of our own circle, for the introduction of a stranger
element was sure to be seen in the character of the mani¬
festations in one form or another.
Granting the genuineness of the supra-mundane origin j
and production of these temporarily created forms in the j
human likeness, the larger question lays behind whether j
they are part and parcel of the personality of the medium, j
or whether they are the spirits of those who once inhabited j
the earth and again rehabilitate. themselves in physical |
bodies for a time. There is still another theory, that these j
forms are mere representatives built up out of the sub- j
stance of the medium’s body, consequently partaking more j
or less of his or her idiosyncrasy, but moved or energised j
by the spirit forms that they are intended to represent; in j
short, that they are neither more nor less than living j
automata. At present I incline to the latter view, as it j
seems to cover the largest amount of area occupied by this |
phase of phenomena. When the time arrives that these j
forms will appear on the platform and deliver orations, as j j j
prognosticated through so many media, we shall then | j
know more. Towards this goal the advance seems to be j
sure and steady. j j
Higher Broughton, Manchester, July 17, 1878. j) j
True silence is the rest of the mind, and is to the spirit what |) i
sleep is to the body, nourishment and refreshment. It is a great i j
virtue; it covers folly, keeps secrets, avoids disputes, and prevents j |
sin.— William Penn. ! I
Science is, I believe, nothing but trained and organised common j |
sense, differing from the latter only as a veteran may differ from a raw i
recruit ; and its methods differ from those of common sense only so far j)
as the guardsman’s cut and thrust differ from the manner in which a i |
savage wields his club.—Prof. Huxley. | (
Marriage.-—On "Wednesday last a marriage took place between Mr. j j
F. Barrett, of Langley House, Denmark-hill, London, and Emily, |)
daughter of Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E. The B,ev, Samuel j j
Eldridge officiated at the ceremony, at Brixton Independent Church, in i j
the presence of the family of the bride and bridegroom, and numerous ])
friends. The aisle had been strewn with flowers by some of the latter. ] j
The marriage party afterwards drove off to Langley House, the resi- 11
dence of the bridegroom’s father, and amused themselves with lawn j j
tennis until stopped by the rain; they then drove to the temporary i j
residence of Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, the grandmother of the bride, 29, East- ; j
bourne-terrace, Paddington, where the wedding breakfast was served, j)
Among the numerous presents were some from the Brixton Psycho- j j
logical Society. A more detailed account of the happy event, in which j i
so many good and true friends of Spiritualism were intimately con- j j
cerned, will be published in these pages next week. £ c
MESMERIC HEALING.
The following certificates of cures effected by mesmerism
by Mr. Omerin have been handed to us for publication :—
66, Berners-street, Oxford-street, W., Feb. 12, 1878.
Dear Sir,-—In giving you my testimony to the following,
I do but repay a debt of gratitude.
After a severe attack of rheumatic fever, which for more
than a month had confined me to my bed without the power
to move, I was regaining the use of my legs, when the pain
settled in my face, mouth, and gums. In this state of
suffering I passed many months, until ultimately I became
unable either to eat or sleep, and during the last week was
in such agony that meals were a torment, and night little
better than death, since it was passed without sleep, and in
constantly rising to gargle my mouth with rum, brandy,
and other spirits, which gave me no relief. At last, in
sheer desperation, I could only wish for death. It was at
this time that Providence sent you, sir, to me, when, by the
mere passing of your hand over my face, the pain was
mitigated, and, at the end of a quarter of an hour, entirely
removed. I then commenced to touch with my tongue the
parts of my mouth which before I could not do without
inflicting great pain, and, feeling none, it appeared to me
as though I were asleep. I was afterwards able to take
supper without the least pain or difficulty, and on going to
bed slept through the whole night with a calmness and
tranquillity I had not known for many years. On the
following day you again passed your hand over my face, and
from then until now (almost a year) not the least pain
has returned, and I sleep now as well as in the days of my
girlhood.
Begging you, sir, to accept this expression of my grati¬
tude for the favour you have conferred, I remain, dear sir,
yours sincerely, Mary Chidley.
Baltic Chambers, 108, Bishopsgate-street Within, London,
May 2nd, 1878.
Dear Sir,—I have much pleasure in giving a written
expression of my gratitude and obligations to you for the
two special instances in which your manipulations have
been followed by both remedial and curative results. The
first occasion was the absolute removal of what is generally
called “ nervous headache.” The manipulation then occu¬
pied about twenty minutes. In the second instance I
applied to you respecting my left hand, the fingers of which
had been curved and stiff for about twelve years. The
malady lay chiefly in the third joint from the end of each
finger. The mere holding of my hand in yours caused
great pain as high as the elbow. After my hand had been
rubbed a few times by yours, the fingers became as free as
nature ever intended them to be.
Please permit me to assure you that for the benefits I
have received (literally) of your hands, you have the cease¬
less and increasing gratitude of yours ever faithfully,
Geo. Cawthorne.
47, Union-street, W., June 24th, 1878.
Dear Sir,—As you would accept no monetary remunera¬
tion from me for the overwhelming kindness you have
shown in removing my fearful attacks of gout, allow me to
send you this statement as a slight testimony of my inex¬
pressible gratitude to you.
I had been suffering from this disease for about fifteen
years, and could obtain no relief whatever from any of the
medicines prescribed for me by the physicians I had con¬
sulted during that period. I was laid up with an attack in
my right hand for some ten weeks, when I was fortunately
introduced to you, and advised that you were capable of
alleviating my distress without the use of physic. Although
this seemed altogether too good to be true, I placed myself
under your kind charge, and, as I need not repeat, found
myself, after twenty minutes’ manipulation, quite a new
man. You repeated the operation on the following day
(June 16th, 1877), and from that date down to the present
time—now fully a year—I have been entirely without the
least suffering or inconvenience from any relapse. In fact,
it has been a complete cure, and one for which I can only
tender you my best and most heartfelt thanks.—I remain,
dear sir, your obedient servant, B. S. Tucker.
44
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 26, 1876.
ME. FELT AND THE THEOSOPHIOAL SOCIETY.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—The enclosed letter, addressed to yourself from Mr.
George Felt, whose acquaintance I had the pleasure of
making in New York some three years ago, has been sent to
me to forward. I do not doubt that as a mere act of justice,
apart from the singular interest of the communication, you
will willingly publish it. But to prevent misconception I
may remind your readers that the doubt thrown by the writer
upon the u so-called manifestations ” of Spiritualists, is not
in accordance with the known opinions of those other
members of the Theosophical Society who have come before
the English public. Engaged in intellectual pursuits, Mr.
Felt appears not to have taken the trouble to inform himself
of the reality of thephenomena which occur through mediums.
For more experienced members of the society to which he
belongs, and of which I believe him to be a distinguished
ornament, the question is not one of fact, but of interpreta¬
tion, by the light of other knowledge than these phenomena
by themselves can impart. Without pretending to such
knowledge myself, I may be allowed to express the hope
that Mr. Felt’s testimony will be received with the respect
which, his eminent scientific attainments should command for
it.—Your obedient servant, G. 0. Massey.
Temple, July 18.
ELEMENTALS AND THE EGYPTIAN ZODIACS.
New York, June 19tb, 1878.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—My attention has but just now been called to certain
articles published in your city, and one of them in your
paper, which reflect upon statements made by friends of mine
respecting the u Theosophical Society” and myself. One or
more of the writers question whether such a person actually
exists, or is but the creation of the brain of Madame Blavatsky
and others.
Having very little in common with the public which sup¬
ports your paper, I seldom see it, and would, perhaps, never
have known of these statements if they had not been pointed
out to me. I am engaged in mathematical pursuits, and take
little or no interest in anything that cannot be exactly
demonstrated, for which reason Spiritualists and myself
have very few bonds of sympathy. I have so little faith in
their so-called manifestations that I have long since given
up trying to keep track of them.
The Theosophical Society was started under the mistaken
impression that a fraternity of that kind could be run on
the modern mutual admiration plan, for the benefit of the
newspapers, but very soon everything was in confusion.
There were no degrees of membership, nor grades; but all
were equal. Most members apparently came to teach rather
than to learn, and their views were thoroughly ventilated on
the street corners. The propriety of making different
degrees was at once apparent to the real Theosophist, and
the absolute necessity of forming the society into a secret
body. This reorganisation into a secret society, embracing
different degrees, having been accomplished, all statements
of what has transpired since the members were so bound in
secrecy are, of course, to be viewed with suspicion, as, even
if such statements were true, things may have been done in
the presence of the illuminati of which many ex-members
and novitiates had no knowledge. Of my own acts in and
out of the society before this bond of secrecy I am at liberty
to speak, but of my doings or the doings of others since that
time I have no right to give evidence. Mr. Olcott’s state¬
ment about my experiments with elemental or elementary
spirits, in his inaugural address, was made without consul¬
tation with me or my consent, and was not known to me
until too long after its appearance for me to protest. Although
substantially true, I looked upon it as premature, and as
something that should have been kept within the knowledge
of the society.
That these so-called elementals, or intermediates, or ele¬
mentary, or original spirits were creatures that actually
existed, I was convinced through my investigations in
Egyptian archaeology. While working at drawings of several
Egyptian Zodiacs, in the endeavour to arrive at their mathe¬
matical correspondences, I had noticed that very curious
[ | and unaccountable effects were sometimes produced. My
1 i family observed that at certain times a pet terrier and a
!! Maltese cat, which had been brought up together, and were
[ | in the habit of frequenting my study and sleeping on the foot
| of my bed, were acting strangely, and at last called my atten-
il tion to it. I then noticed that when I commenced certain
investigations the cat would first appear to be uneasy, and
the dog would, for a short time, try to quiet him, but
shortly after the dog would also seem to be in dread of
| something happening. It was as though the perceptions of
the cat were more acute, and they would both then insist
| on being led out of the room, trying to get out themselves by
' running against the French glass windows. Being released,
| they would stop outside and mew and bark, as though calling
! to me to come out. This behaviour was repeated until I was
forced to the conclusion at last that they were susceptible
j to influences not perceptible to me.
I supposed at first that the hideous representations on the
| Zodiacs, &c., were 11 vain imaginations of a distempered
brainbut afterwards thought that they were conventional
| representations of natural objects.
After studying these effects on the animals, I reflected
| that as the spectrum gives rays, which though to our unaided
sight invisible, had been declared by eminent scientists to be
| capable of supporting another creation than the one to us
objective, and that this creation would probably also be in-
| visible (Zollner’s theory), this phenomenon was one of its
| manifestations. As these invisible rays could be made
| apparent by chemical means, and as invisible chemical
images could be reproduced, I commenced a series of ex-
| periments to see if this invisible creation, or the influences
| exerted by it, would be thereby affected. I then began to
| understand and appreciate many things in my Egyptian
| researches that had been incomprehensible before. I have,
as a result, become satisfied that these Zodiacal and other
i drawings are representations of types in this invisible
j creation delineated in a more or less precise manner, and
| interspersed with images of natural objects more or less
conventionally drawn. I discovered that these appearances
were intelligences, and that while some seemed to be male¬
volent, and dreaded by the animals, others were not
| obnoxious to them, but, on the contrary, they seemed to
like them, and to be satisfied when they were about.
I was led to believe that they formed a series of creatures
I in a system of evolution running from inanimate nature
through the animal kingdom to man, its highest develop-
| ment: that they were intelligences capable of being con-
| trolled more or less perfectly, as man was more or less
thoroughly acquainted with them, and as he was able to
j impress them as being higher or lower in the scale of crea¬
tion, or as he was more or less in harmony with nature or
nature’s works. Recent researches showing that plants
possess senses in greater or less perfection have convinced
I me that this system can be still further extended. Parity
of mind and body I found to be very powerful, and smoking
and chewing tobacco and other filthy habits I observed to be
| especially distasteful to them.
I satisfied myself that the Egyptians had used these
| appearances in their initiations; in fact, I think I have
established this beyond question. My original idea was to
| introduce into the masonic fraternity a form of initiation
such as prevailed among the ancient Egyptians, and tried to
do so, but finding that only men pure in mind and body
could control these appearances, I decided that I would have
to find others than my whiskey-soaked and tobacco-sodden
countrymen, living in an atmosphere of fraud and trickery,
j to act in that direction. I found that when these appear-
j ances, or elementals, could not be kept in perfect control
they grew malicious, and despising men whom their cunning
I taught them must be debased, they became dangerous, and
capable of inflicting damage and harm.
With one of the members of the society, a legal gentle-
| man of a mathematical turn of mind, I accomplished the
| following, after the manner of Cornelius Agrippa, who
I claimed for himself and Trithemus that u at a great dis¬
tance it is possible, without any doubt, to influence another
| person spiritually, even when their position and the distance
| are unknown.” (De Occulta Phil.) lib. III., p. 3.) Several
1 times, just before meeting me, he observed a bright light;
July 26, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
45
and at last came to connect this light with my coming, and I
questioned me about it. I told him to notice the hour and I
minute at which these lights would be seen, and when I met )!
him afterwards I would tell him the exact time. I did this j j
thirty or forty times before his naturally sceptical mind was ! | j
thoroughly convinced. These lights appeared to him at f
different times of the day, wherever he happened to be, in j | j
New York or Brooklyn, and we arranged in each case that I j
about two hours from that time I should meet him at his ! j
office. 11 |
These phenomena differ, essentially, from any mesmeric, I j
magnetic, or so-called spiritual manifestations that I am !) ]
acquainted with, and are not referable thereto. This gentle- ! |
man never has been influenced by me in either of these j |
ways. j !
Once he came to my house, in the suburbs of this city, I !
and examined some cabalistic drawings upon which I was j j!
working, with one of which he was much impressed. After |) |
leaving he saw, in bright daylight, in the cars, an appear- j |
ance of a curious kind of animal, of which he then made a <
sketch from memory. He was so impressed with the cir- j j
cumstances and the vividness of the apparition that he went j
at once to one of the illuminati of the society, and showed !
his drawing. He was informed that, though apparently an |
ideal figure, it was really a so-called elemental spirit, which |
was represented by the Egyptians as next in the order of
progression to a certain reptile which was the figure he had
seen at my house, and that it was employed by the
Egyptians in making their Zodiacs at initiations, &c. He
then returned to me, and without comment I showed him a j
drawing of the very figure seen by him, whereupon he told
me that he had seen it, and under what circumstances, and
produced his sketch. He was then convinced that I fore¬
saw that he would see this appearance after having been
impressed by the aforesaid cabalistic drawing.
These phenomena are clearly not referable to any familiar
form of manifestations.
At one of my lectures before the Theosophical Society, at
which all degrees of members were present, lights were seen
by the illuminati passing to and from one of my drawings, \ j
although they stood in the glare of several gaslights. A j j
dark cloud was observed to settle upon it by others, and | |
other phenomena, such as the apparent change of the | j
Zodiacal figures into other forms, or elemental representa- ] |
tions, were observed. j
Certain members of lower degree were impressed with a j
feeling of dread, as though something awful were about to J
happen. Most of the probationers were rendered uncom- I j
for table and uneasy; some became hypercritical and abusive; ! !
several of the novitiates left the room; and Madame i |
Blavatsky, who had seen unpleasant effects follow somewhat j |
similar phenomena in the East, requested me to turn the j
drawings and change the subject. If there had previously j j
been any doubt, the absolute necessity of forming the society | j
into degrees was then apparent, and I have never since met j j
others than the illuminati of the society with similar mani- ! i
festations. j !
The unfriendly tone of the articles above referred to was j j
entirely uncalled for, and there was no boasting on the part j |
of any of the members in their remarks. Being a secret j
society we could not in any manner retaliate until permission j
to do so was given. Having now received permission, I here I
publicly state that I have lately performed what I agreed to I
do, and unless the Council forbids, I hereby give permission j
to such of the illuminati as have seen it to come forward, if j
they choose, and bear evidence of the fact.
I do not know ‘if you will think this worthy the space it
will occupy in your columns, but think that it is but just, j j
after keeping an absolute silence for more than two years, I
should now be heard in this matter. Modern Spiritualism | j
need not weep with Alexander, for there is another world for j j
it to discover and conquer.
Geo. H. Felt, Ex- Vice-President of the j I i
Tkeosopkical Society. i i
The offices of the National Association of Spiritualists at 38, Great j I
Russell-street, will be closed for the vacation from next Saturday, 27th j j j
inst., to August 26th. The Association will suspend the issue of its 11 |
“ Proceedings’’for the month of August. iii
©orresponuence.
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters tchich are not anonymous.}
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—I have read with much pleasure the remarks made in your last
issue of The Spiritualist by your correspondent, Mr. J. T. Rhodes, and
would like to communicate to you an excellent test of identity obtained
through his own mediumsbip. I think it quite as convincing as the case
at West Pelton, narrated by himself.
I became acquainted with Mr. Rhodes, I think, in 1876, whilst
attending the seances of the Newcastle Society, of which we were both
members. He invited me to his own house one evening. After taking
tea with Mr. and Mrs. Rhodes and a Mr. Smith (a friend of his), we
sat around a three-legged table for a seance. It was broad daylight.
Mr. Rhodes was the medium, and was soon controlled by an Indian
spirit, who began to operate on the table in a lively manner. It tilted
over until the edge of the top touched the floor, then rose by degrees
until in its proper position. We had our hands on the table all the
time, of course ; but we proved afterwards that it was impossible to
raise it ourselves without actually taking hold of it, which we did not
do. The experiment was repeated several times.
Mr. Rhodes was soon controlled by a spirit purporting to be a friend
of mine, who tried to write a message, but failed to do so, and after¬
wards tried to prove his or her identity by making gesticulations ; but
it was all in vain. I could not recognise anything, so the seance ended.
At that time I was attending a circle at which Miss Jessie Nicoll was
the medium, and through whose mediumship I had the wonderful tests
of identity recorded in The Spiritualist, No. 211. We invited Mr.
Rhodes to a seance; he came to witness something, but soon surprised us
all by becoming one of the actors himself, for on entering the seance
room—which contained a bed in one corner—he was controlled, went and
threw himself down flat on his back upon the bed, and placed both his
hands above his head, and laid a short while. He next rose and went
to the fireplace, took a seat upon a chair at one side, placed his feet on
the fender, and was thrown into a violent fit of coughing. At this
juncture Mrs. Nicoll (mother of Miss Nicoll), who had been watching
him, burst into tears, and declared her belief that it was her husband
who had passed away twelve years ago. He died from bronchitis, as
she informed us, and used to lie in the position indicated by Mr. Rhodes
to enable himself to breathe easily. He also sat by the fireside in the
exact manner indicated, and used to cough a good deal.
The controlling power seemed quite overjoyed, and caused the medium
to shake hands with all the family present; they seemed to realise the
presence of one whom they had loved. Several other gesticulations
were made, and understood quite as well. I considered, and so did all
the rest, that the proof was beyond doubt a good and genuine one. Mr.
Rhodes was unacquainted with the family altogether, and they with him ;
therefore he had no means of getting knowledge previously.
Mr. Rhodes’ mediumship is of a very peculiar kind, and is, I think,
calculated to carry conviction to any sceptical mind. He devotes most
of his leisure time to the great cause of Spiritualism I know, but does
not exercise his gifts as a medium so much as in exerting himself by
giving information to inquirers, and in forming new circles. I hope
friends of the cause in Edinburgh will rally around Mr. Rhodes, and
try to form an organisation in that stronghold of orthodoxy.
W. Bowman.
14, Park-terrace, Hornsey, London, N.
COMMUNION WITH THE SPIRITS OP THE DEPARTED.
Sir,—I have been often impressed with the belief that perfect know¬
ledge has never been attained or demonstrated on earth since the world
began, and that even the best men, side by side with precepts and
example of the noblest orders, may hold and teach other precepts or
doctrines which may not only be enunciated through mistaken impres¬
sions, but may be positively hurtful to the souls of humanity, and dero¬
gatory to God. Let me give, as an instance of the above assertion, two
extracts from Canon Farrar’s justly popular book of sermons, collec¬
tively called Eternal Hope. The Canon says, pages 12, 13 : “ Not to
one of all the unnumbered generations whose dust is blown upon the
desert winds, has it been permitted to breath one syllable or letter of the
dim and awful secret beyond the grave.’’ And again: “ At every
ticking of the clock some fifty souls have passed away, yet not a breath
of sound shakes the curtain of impenetrable darkness which hangs
between us and the unseen world.” After such assertions, one marvels
to find, only a few pages further on, the Canon speaking Spiritualism
proper, pure, and simple; but this he assuredly does in the following
and many like eloquent words: “ Oh, to he, what here we have only
seemed to be or wished to be! Oh, to be honest, true, noble, sincere,
genuine, pure, holy to the heart’s inmost core! Is not that heaven ? is
it dull, gross, sensual, selfish, to sigh for that ? Is it not a state rather
than a place 1 is it not a temper rather than a habitation ? is it not to he
something rather than to go somewhere ? Yes, this, this is heaven. What
more we know not. In other stars, amid His countless worlds, for all
we know, God may have work for us to do. Who knows what radiant
ministrations, what infinite activities, what never-ending progress / ”
Why, the aspirations of all true Spiritualists, and the teachings of all
good spirits, are precisely those of Canon Farrar in the latter paragraph.
All he there says is, I repeat, true Spiritualism, and to Spiritualism he
owes these noble rational ideas, and to nothing else, though he may not
be aware of it. For how, indeed, are spiritual ideas insinuating them¬
selves into men’s minds in the present day, though they may not under¬
stand or consider whence they come or whither they go! If the Canon
has not sat at stances he has read this Spiritualism in books; or he
may be unwittingly inspired by the Spiritualism he despises, now that
46
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 26, 1878.
it is so common. Canon Farrar never could and never would have j j
idealised such unorthodox inspirations himself, for they are new, com- | (
paratively, to the world, and are but the natural outcoming of this our i
novel dispensation of knowledge, love, and wisdom first taught to Katie j j
Fox, a babe, as it were, in years. For the above reasons how vacuous i J
the assumption, when the Canon talks of “ the curtain of impenetrable j
darkness which hangs between us and the unseen world !” How puerile, j I
even, is this denial of Spiritualism in the face of common knowledge! I (
How contrary to daily evidence! How unhistorical and how un- ] |
scriptural! For has not the Canon, at least, the story of the witch of | j
Endor to disprove his assertions; the evocation of Moses and Elias by i i
Christ; the dead rising from their graves after Christ’s death; the | )
hypothesis that the dead might rise though men would not believe if j J
they did ? And the fact that necromancy was forbidden in the Old Testa- |
ment so persistently, presents a very forcible proof indeed of the reality |
of “dead” souls still living to appeal. i
For if there were no “ dead” to seek and to commune with, necro- i
mancy would be but an idle term—a dead letter; while it is, in fact, ]
the only allusion, perhaps, to a future life contained in the Pentateuch, j (
How ungrateful, sometimes, are the wisest men to sources of their I
knowledge ! If not, how ignorant, how very much behind the in- j j
telligence, in some respects, of even, now-a-days, the common herd !
On the other hand, as regards the Canon’s second paragraph, I j}
appeal to all or any Spiritualist who has been familiar with spirit i
teaching any time these last thirty years, whether the Canon’s |
language there is not a most powerful testimony in favour of Spirit- j |
ualism, inasmuch as like language has been the common, accustomed ] j j
language of spirits since this new influx began ? And I would ask, j
likewise, whether such language and ideas ever existed at any known j
period of the world’s history before, or any approach to it ? What i
clergyman previous to the Fox rappings ever alluded to heaven as “a I j
state rather than a place ? ” as “ being something rather than going j j
somewhere ? ” or as “ a state of never-ending progress 1” j j j
Spiritualism gives men knowledge, if it does not necessarily give i
them virtue or wisdom ; and to this knowledge, in a limited degree, j j \
somehow, it seems perchance unconsciously to himself, Canon Farrar i (i
has attained. , Atjdax. i j I
A DIVORCE CASE—HOLT V. HOLT. | j
Sir,—I am desired by the committee of the Newcastle Psychological j {j
Society to draw your attention to an extract from The Newcastle j j
Daily Chronicle, published in The Spiritualist of the 19th inst.; and, j / j
as worded, the inference is that the parties to the suit resided in this j (
district, so the committee asks that you will kindly insert this in your j
next—viz., that the persons are none of them known in Newcastle, j j
especially the lady described as a spiritualistic medium, and, so far as j (
they have been able to ascertain, she is not known anywhere in the 11
district around. H. A. Kersey, Hon. Sec. j j
Newcastle-on-Tyne, July 22nd, 1878. j | |
DR. MACKENZIE AND SPIRITUALISM. j !
Sir,—Dr. Mackenzie complains that I have “ occupied your space j j!
unnecessarily ” with reference to him. It may be so. After reading | i
his last utterance, I am disposed to agree with him. I must, however, | i
in justification say that I was concerned, not with him, but with ! j
certain ideas which he put forward in the course of a paper read before j j
a society with which I am officially connected.
In the course of my duty, I commented on these ideas with both | !
courtesy and fairness, so far as I know, and I somewhat amplified my j j
criticism in answer to some further remarks of Dr. Mackenzie. Had ! j
I known that he was so sensitive, I would have omitted his name while i
challenging what I believe to be erroneous ideas. I regret that I did
not do so. I should then have spared him the necessity for writing j
the irrelevant matter with which he favours us in your last issue, and j j
you the introduction to “ a game not fitted for gentlemen,” and to a |
style of controversy not usual in your columns. |
However, I have said what I wished, and will not waste further i
space. I have no desire to join Dr. Mackenzie in the game with j
which I have not the advantage of being acquainted. (]
W. Stainton Moses.
London, July 20.   (
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA AT WIESBADEN. j j
Sir,—I have long been silent, because I had no new facts of im- j
portance to communicate to you which could bear comparison with the |
facts stated in The Spiritualist of June 8th last year. The harmonious j 1
circle which induced, not to say caused, those extraordinary results in j
so short a time, without a professional medium, gradually broke up, and j
its members have been scattered partly over Germany, partly over j /
Hussia—an illustration of the fickleness of fate, and the restless con- j j
ditions of human existence. i {
About Professor Friedr. Zollner’s experiments, and his visit to i
Wiesbaden, I told you some time ago. I have received a letter since j j
then from Prof. Zollner, informing me that his further experiments with j {j
Mr. Slade after his return from St. Petersburg had been successful; the i)
results were far above his expectations. We are, therefore, now looking I j
forward to the publication of his second volume of his Scientific Treatises |)
with keen expectation. In the meantime we have not been sleeping !!
here, and it is with great pleasure that I inform your readers that j j
Providence has favoured us with a new non-professional medium of great j 5
power and promise. I will not occupy your valuable space this time | I
with a detailed narrative of the various results of our sittings; but j j
shall limit myself to a very brief statement of the main features of the j j
results obtained, so as to enable your readers to form an idea of the j
extraordinary and rapid development of the medial powers of a person | }
who never sat in his life before for psychic phenomena. ' '
It is just a fortnight to-day that I commenced my experiments with
him. I sat quite alone with him the first week, when we obtained in
rapid succession the following series of psychic phenomena: medial
writing, containing statements of the sudden death of a friend of the
medium, which proved to be true ; strong raps; rising of the table above
the ground, and the floating of it in the air, whilst our hands were
resting on the top of it; the table rising freely in the air without being
touched by us, aud at our request, we merely having joined both our
hands above the centre of it; touching by spirit hands ; a spirit hand
seen distinctly by subdued light; touched by spirits whilst we had both
our hands clasped together; ringing of a hand-bell above the table and
at a distance from it; objects put on our table that were not there before ;
a leather strap taken away from our room and brought back two days
afterwards, with some knots in it that were not in it before; and last,
but not least, flowers received by spirit agency. Two roses we received
thus on Wednesday last, July 17th, in the presence of a sceptical friend
of mine, a literary man. The spirit, after dropping one rose on the
table, informed us by writing that she was going to send us another in
a minute, and so she did. But before it came, we gave our sceptical
friend permission to examine the room and our own persons, to make
sure that no other rose was at that moment in the room but the one
just received. This medium, like our former one, is not at the disposal
of the public. G. W. F. Wiese.
3, Elisabethen Str., Wiesbaden, July 19th, 1878.
THE SEANCE AT MR. ST. CLAIR’S HOUSE IN BIRMINGHAM.
Sir,—In The Spiritualist of July 12th, to which a friend has called
my attention, I find a letter from Mr. John Colley, describing a seance
at my house. The letter is written as though intended to be a plain
narrative of what occurred, but is neither full nor accurate, and by its
omissions and mistakes is calculated to give a wrong impression. On
this account I ask permission to reply to it. Mr. and Mrs. Summer-
field, Mr. Colley, and others were at my house as stated. Mr. Summer-
field is the medium, but Mrs. Summerfield is confessedly in strong
sympathy with her husband, and during the sitting appeared to be in a
highly nervous and even hysterical condition. We sat at the table—a
table which Mr. Colley calls a large table, but which measures four
feet six inches by three feet six inches. The sitters were nine in
number, all of them Spiritualists or sympathisers excepting myself and
wife, but there were in addition my friends Mr. and Mrs. Lawson Tait,
outside the circle.« Mr. Summerfield sat with his back towards the
mantlepiece, and had his wife on his right hand and Mrs. Colley on
his left. After some pushing and dragging of the table (which was on
castors), “ flowers came” certainly. Mr. Colley says “flowers were
dropping,” but I was not aware that anybody had actually seen them
descending. The medium was nearly opposite my wife, and asked her,
in a convulsive whisper, “Would the lady like a flower?” My wife
said she would, and almost at once she felt one touch her hand ; but
she would not like to say that it “ dropt,” or fell perpendicularly. “ The
table was rising,” as Mr. Colley says; but this must be understood to
mean that it was violently tilted up on the side on which the mediums
sat, aud never had more than two legs off the floor.
It is quite true that at this stage of the manifestations I turned up the
light. Mr. Colley asks, with triumphant air, “ What did they see ? ”
He should have mentioned that on Mrs. Summerfield crying out that
the light would injure the medium, I instantly turned it out, and there
was scarcely more than a second in which anyone could see anything.
What did they see 1 Mr. Colley says they saw the medium “ still
entranced.” What I did see was that the medium’s eyes were open and
looked dazzled by the unexpected light. “Roses, &c., round each
sitter’s hands,” Mr Colley says. My description would have been,
“ scattered irregularly over the table.” Well, Mr. Colley on his part
saw something also; he “ saw Mr. St. Clair getting hastily down from
the chandelier.” One would imagine, from this way of putting it,
that I had climbed a chair, whereas the chandelier was so low that I
simply stood up in my place and sat down again. Mr. Colley saw that
we “had lit up our own confusion,” and “felt ashamed of ourselves.”
Nothing of the kind. In saying they had lit up their own confusion,
Mr. Colley refers, I imagine, to Mr. Lawson Tait as well as myself.
Now, what did Mr. Tait see? I had met Mr. Tait on other business
two nights before, and invited him to come; the invitation was given
and accepted in the moment of parting, and there was no pre-arranged
course of action between us for the sSance. Mr. Tait had obtained leave
of the medium to remain outside the circle, and without my know¬
ledge had gone round behind Mr. Summerfield and stood between the
medium and the mantlepiece. It was so dark that I did not see this,
but it was observed by Mr. and Mrs. Franklin. We have Mr. Colley’s
testimony that the room was light enough for us “ to see each other.”
It was light enough therefore for Mr. Tait to see the medium, and Mr.
Tait saw the medium’s hand move as in the act of throwing when the
flowers were “ dropping.” Moreover, the medium had placed a bell
upon the mantlepiece, and Mr. Tait saw his arm twice stretched round
as if feeling for it. The arm would have touched Mr. Tait if he had
not drawn himself in a little.
Now let me meet the charge of bad faith—“ Mr. St. Clair had broken
conditions.” I broke conditions, Mr. Colley told me (1) by withdraw¬
ing my hand from contact. Yes; but when the sitting commenced we
asked whether we were to touch hands, and were told it was simply
desirable as a guarantee against trickery on the part of the medium or
his friends. This did not seem to me to imply any bond, much less a
reciprocal bond, as there could be no suspicion that conjuring tricks
would be attempted by non-Spiritualists. I did not seek to hide what I
did ; for I had Mr. Franklin, a Spiritualist, on my right, and he was of
course aware that I withdrew my hand from contact with his. Secondly,
I had “ broken conditions ” by turning up the light. To this I must
reply, first, that no conditions were laid down. The room had been
July 26, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
47
darkened, but there was no bond, no promise, nor even a request, that
it should not be lighted up at any moment. On the contrary, when the
room was about to be darkened I was told twice to provide myself with
matches; though I cannot recollect who instructed me. I confess, of
course, that I was prompted by a curiosity to discover the cause of the
tilting of the table; but then it must be remembered that I sat as an
investigator, not as a believer. Nor did I think that it was illegitimate
to turn up the light at a stance, for I had read in Dr. Sexton’s Oration
on Spirit Mediums and Conjurors (p. 9)—“I am not at all partial to
dark stances, and would always much rather have the light, at least
enough of it to enable me to see what is going on and in Mr. Wal¬
lace’s account of a seance he attended at a friend’s house, that when
something remarkable seemed to be occurring “ a light was at once
struck ” [Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p. 163). If I had been
under any promise not to touch the gas or break contact of hands I should
of course have kept my promise. It appears, however, that I was not
the first offender, but according to the testimony of Mr. Tait, the
medium had previously released his own hand from his wife’s.
Mr. Colley charges me with ungentlemanly and unfriendly treatment.
He means simply in turning up the light. He knows that there was
nothing uncourteous in my speech or manner; he knows that supper
was spread for the whole party, and that I so expressed my regret at
any one leaving without supper that the medium would have stayed had
Mr. Colley consented. I will not accuse Mr. Colley of any want of
courtesy, but will only say that if he had been thoughtful enough to let
me know that he was bringing accusations against me in the columns of
The Spiritualist I would have answered them last week.
George St. Clair.
Wheeley’s-road, Birmingham.
P.S.—With regard to the offer Mr. Colley makes on behalf of Mr.
Summerfield, that he is willing to sit with Mr. Tait and myself under
test conditions, Mr. Tait wishes me to say that “ he has neither time
nor inclination to investigate any further such transparent nonsense,
but that if any advocate of Spiritualism, who is at the same time
familiar with the processes and general principles of scientific investi¬
gation, should be found ready to submit to test conditions, he will be
very glad to join me and take part in any reasonable number of
sittings.” G. St. C.
[With reference to the remarks of Mr. Tait, which assume that it is worth
while for some of the representatives of a great movement, including so many
not his inferiors in science and in society, to go out of their way to convert
him, we hope that he will be refused admission to all seances till he gives in an
apology for his scarcely civil language. If any simple people in Birmingham
want scientific authority, and are too weak to trust to their own observations,
let them select authority of considerable weight, and read Mr. Crookes’s book,
or the report of the investigating committee of the Dialectical Society. If
Mr. Summerfield is the strong medium we suppose him to be from the reports
recently sent us, his time, if he were in London, would be much too valuable
to be employed in giving seances to the uncourteous. See the leading article
in last week’s Spiritualist on the advisability of excluding from stances the
rougher class of physicists who decide upon subjects which they have not
investigated; their support would discredit Spiritualism.—Ed.]
ALLEGED CURE OF SNAKE BITES BY OCCULT MEANS.
To the Editor of the “ Madras Times.”
Sir,—Allow me to give to the public, through the medium
of your columns, a few facts, as extraordinary as they are
real. Some thirty years ago my father, an apothecary of
the Madras Medical Department, was travelling in the
vicinity of Parla Kimidi. One day a Biragi, or itinerant
hermit, came to him, begging for some oil of cinnamon. My
father gave him what he wanted, and Biragi, to show his
gratitude, promised to teach him a mantra or charm for the
sting of scorpions. Out of sheer curiosity, and not willing to
hurt the man’s feelings by a refusal, my father wrote out
what was to him the unmeaning gibberish dictated by the
Sunyassi, who, having received the cinnamon oil, went on
his way rejoicing. It was not long before my father had
an opportunty of testing the efficacy of the charm. A
person suffering from the sting of a scorpion was brought to
him one day. This reminded him at once of the charm, and
he determined to give it a trial. Strange to relate, the pain
began to descend rapidly during the first recitation, and,
after a few more repetitions, reached the puncture, where it
lingered for a short time, and then ceased altogether. After
this occurrence my father made use of nothing but the charm
in every case of scorpion sting that he had the good fortune
to come across. Among those that he cured was his first
wife. I have myself been an eye-witness of many and many
a case. Some time before his decease, my father gave a
written copy of his charm to Mr. J. M. Browne, merchant
at Waltair, who carefully preserved it as a curio. During a
visit to Mr. Browne, I recopied the formula, and also com¬
mitted it to memory for future experiments.
Now, for my own experience. About four months ago I
had returned home one evening from school, and had just
taken my tea and ensconced myself in a chair, when I heard
most horrible groans proceeding from the street, and having
sent my servant to see what was the matter found that a
j poor woman, a neighbour’s thunnikarchi, had been stung by
[ a scorpion. My mother advised me to send for her and
make an experiment. I did so with much hesitation, as
this was to be my maiden effort in that direction. Plucking
i a twig with leaves from one of the trees in my yard, I
| waved my extemporised magician’s wand, from the locality
of the pain downwards to the sting, as I had often seen my
father do with his patients, while I pronounced the mystic
I words, feeling remarkably silly the whole time, since I did
not know what would be the result. But, to my great satis-
| faction, and the greater satisfaction of the sufferer, the burn¬
ing agony of the virus began to descend and soon reached
the stung part, where I applied some eau-de-Cologne and
j then dismissed my first patient. My fame having gone
i abroad, I had frequent visits from groaning wretches, whom
| I had the pleasure of relieving from their terrible sufferings,
j I have cured, to the best of my recollection, altogether seven
| or eight cases, one of my patients being a European lad.
| I may mention that on one occasion, not feeling certain
whether the patient had been attacked by a scorpion or a
I centipede (since she did not complain of the pain ascending),
| I sent her away for a short time. She soon returned com¬
plaining that the pain had come up. I repeated the charm,
with the usual result. Since Vizagapatam is a town infested
| with scorpions, I thought it well to communicate my secret
| to a few unprejudiced friends, residing in different parts of
| the town, so that all sufferers might not have the trouble of
| coming up to my house in the Fort. I accordingly initiated
j Messrs. Venkatanarraina Naidu Garu and Surianarraina
| Puntulu Garu, assistant masters in the same school as
| myself. This was only two months ago, and they have
| already succeeded in relieving eight persons; the former
j two, and the latter six. A sceptic in these matters, N.
j Ranigarao, being anxious to investigate the matter, brought
over a live scorpion and bravely offered to get stung that I
might try the charm on himself, but the reptile, from
weakness or timidity perhaps, would not sting him, although
the bystanders very kindly attempted in divers manners
| to irritate it into doing so. Having, however, seen a case
cured, Rungarao learned the charm, and I am happy to say
that he has also succeeded in curing a case. Knowing what
j fearful sufferings follow the sting of a scorpion, and that
some cases end fatally, and being aware that many parts of
India are infested by these venomous reptiles, I do not feel
;j justified in keeping my remedy any longer a secret, or in
| confiding it to two or three individuals only. Hence my
desire to make the thing known throughout the length and
| breadth of the land. In order that the charm may be valued,
and to defray the cost of fair copying it for each applicant,
| and that it may be within the reach of all, I have resolved
I to send it for eight annas, post free, to any part of India.
In applying for the charm, customers will be good enough
to mention whether they would prefer it in the Greek,
Telugu, or Roman character, to facilitate pronunciation.
All applications to be addressed to me,
Frederick S. J. Stricke,
Assistant Master, L. M. High School.
I Vizagapatam, 26th May, 1878,
I THiinc the first virtue is to restrain the tongue; he approaches
nearest to the gods who knows how to be silent, even though he is in
the right.—Cato.
The essence of true nobility is neglect of self. Let the thought of
self pass in, and the beauty of a great action is gone, like bloom from
a soiled flower.—Froude.
A Mother’s Curse.—The London correspondent of the Liverpool
Mercury, writing of the charge of theft of jewellery preferred against
Sir Capel Fitzgerald, adds :—His family history is a strange one, and
the police-court scandal of to-day will cause many a Tipperary peasant
to cross himself devoutly, and mutter off an ancient prophecy and a
heritage of malediction. This young fellow’s grandfather was the first
baronet, so created for the bloody part he took in the horrors which
followed the Irish insurrection in ’98. He was known as “ Hanging”
Fitzgerald. He stalked through the country, shooting, hanging, and
flogging men, women, and children whom he chose to suspect of “ dis¬
loyalty.” The pitch cap, the triangle, and the lash were part of his
travelling equipment. One day an old woman actually knelt in the
blood of her two sons, whom “ Magistrate” Fitzgerald had shot dead at
their own door, and, lifting her hands to heaven, “ cursed him to the
third generation, and prophesied a death of disgrace to all his race.
Twenty-five years later the first object of this malediction died by his
own hand; ten years ago his son cut his throat; the young baronet
now in gaol is the last of the line.
48
THE SPIEITUALIST.
July 26, 1878.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN A BYGONE AGE.
(Extracted from Joseph Glanvil's 11 Saducismus Triumphatus," 1685.)
“ The relation of James Sherring, taken concerning the
matter at Old Oast’s house, of Little Barton, June 23, 1677,
as follows:—
The first night that I was there with Hugh Mellmore
and Edward Smith, they heard as it were the washing in
water over their heads. Then taking a candle and going
upstairs, there was a wet cloth thrown at them, but it fell on
the stairs. They going up further, then there was another
thrown as before, and when they came up into the chamber
there stood a bowl of water, some of it sprinkled over, and
the water looked white as if there had been soap used in it.
The bowl just before was in the kitchen, and could not be
carried up but through the room where they were. The next
thing they heard the same night was a terrible noise as if it
had been a flat of thunder, and shortly after they heard great
scratching about the bedstead, and after that a great knock¬
ing with a hammer against the bed’s head, so that the two
maids that were in the bed cried out for help. Then they
ran upstairs, and there lay the hammer on the bed, and on
the bed’s head there were near a thousand prints of the
hammer, which the violent strokes had made. The maids
said that they were scratched and pinched with a hand that
was put into the bed, which had exceeding long nails. They
said that the hammer was docked up in the cupboard fast
when they went to bed.
“The second night that James Sherring and Thomas
Hillary was there, James Sherring sat down in the chimney
to fill a pipe of tobacco. He made use of the fire-tongs to
take up a coal to fire his pipe; and by-and-by the tongs
were drawn up the stairs; and after they were up in the
chamber, they were played withal as many times men do,
and then thrown upon the bed. Although the tongs were
so near him, he never perceived the going of them away.
|| The same night one of the maids left her shoes by the
fire, and they were carried up into the chamber, and the
old man’s brought down and set in their places. The same
night there was a knife carried up into the chamber, and it
did scratch and scrape the bed’s head all the night; but
when they went up into the chamber, the knife was thrown
up into the loft. As they were goingup the stairs there were
things thrown at them, which were just before in the
lower room, and when they went down the stairs
the old man’s breeches were thrown after them. These were
the most remarkable things done that night, only there was
continual knocking and pinching the maids, which was
usually done every night.
“The third night, when James Sherring and Thomas
Hillary were there, as soon as the people were gone to bed,
their clothes were taken and thrown at the candle, and put
it out; and immediately after they cried out with a very
hideous cry, that they should be all choked if they were not
presently helped. Then they ran up the stairs and there
was abundance of feathers plucked out of the bolster that
lay under their heads, and some thrust into their mouths
that they were almost choked. The feathers were thrown all
about the roOm. They were plucked out at a hole no bigger
than the top of one’s little finger. Sometimes they were
vexed with a very hideous knocking at their heads as they
lay on the bed. Then James Sherring and Thomas Hillary
took the candle and went up stairs, and stood at the bed’s
feet, and the knocking continued. Then they saw a hand
with an arm-wrist holding the hammer, which kept on
knocking against the bedstead. Then James Sherring going
towards the bed’s head, the hand and hammer fell down
behind the bolster, and could not be found, for they turned
up the bed clothes to search for the hammer; but as soon as
they went down stairs the hammer was thrown into the
middle of the chamber. These were the most remarkable
things that were done that night.
“ There was a saddle in the house, of their Uncle Warren’s,
of Leigh, which it should seem they detained wrongfully from
the right owner; that as it did hang upon a pin in the entry,
would come off and come into the house, and, as they termed
it, hop about the house from one place to another, and upon
the table and so to another, which stood on the other side of
the house. Jane Gast and her kinswomen took the saddle
and carried it to Leigh, and as they were going along the
broad common there would be sticks and stones thrown at
them, which made them very much afraid, and going near
together, their whittles, which were on their shoulders, were
knit together. They carried the saddle to the house which
was old Warren’s, and there left it and returned home very
quiet. But being gone to bed at night the saddle was
brought back from Leigh, which is a mile and a half at least
from Old Gast’s house, and thrown upon the bed where the
maids lay. After that the saddle was very troublesome
until they broke it in small pieces and threw it out into the
highway.
“ There was a pole which stood in the back side about 14
or 15 feet in length, which was brought into the house and
carried up into the chamber and thrown on the bed ; but all
the wit they had could not get it out of the chamber, because
of its length, until they took down a light of the window.
They report that the things in the house were thrown about
and broken to their great damage.”
SPIRITUALISM AND THE NEWSPAPERS.
Newspaper abuse of Spiritualism has of late been rapidly on the
decline in England, and the following leading article from The Glasgow
Evening Times of July 16th last is a fair average sample of the style of
criticism now prevalent :—
This is an age of contrasts. Along with the most exaggerated peace
notions we have had some of the bloodiest wars on record ; with an
electoral body more democratic in its constituents than ever before
existed in this country, we have the strongest Tory Government of
recent times ; co-existent with an amount of wealth hitherto
unequalled, there is a pauperism which it requires unremitting effort
to keep within moderate limits ; on one hand an advancing scepticism
is threatening to overflow the old tide-marks of theology, on the
other an ultramontane reaction menaces the liberated thought of
Christendom; and the generation which has been called, perhaps
correctly, the most materialistic in profession and general tendency
that ever lived, has witnessed a development of Spiritualism remark¬
able for the boldness and plainness of its teachings and the
startling nature of its revelations. The “spirit mediums” assume to
be the high priests of a cult which admits its devotees into the very
heart of the great mystery. Following so far the fashion of the time,
they found their claims, not on metaphysical argument, but on alleged
fact, so that their pretensions cannot be overthrown by reasoning, but
by experimental inquiry. In an address delivered recently on the
“ 30th Anniversary of Modern Spiritualism,” Mr. Thomas Shorter
informs us that all such inquiries have proved abortive, that all
attempts of priests, professors, and doctors, men of science and of
common sense, have failed to check the progress of “ spiritism,” or
throw doubt on its manifestations. Investigating committees, nimble¬
fingered conjurors, and sceptical exposers have kept it stronger than
ever.
“Its copious literature, its thousands of books, pamphlets, and
journals, its thirtieth anniversary celebrated from a hundred platforms,
and in many lands, evidence its intellectual activity and growing life.”
It is certainly a curious phenomenon. At a period when the old
beliefs in witch and ghost craft seemed left far behind, and all ideas of
the supernatural and immaterial receding further and further into
the dim backgrounds of consciousness, a system which claims more
direct intercourse with the other world than any priesthood or
necromancy that ever hoodwinked humanity rises, spreads, and estab¬
lishes itself in our very midst. That there is more in the phenomena
with which it deals than many are inclined to admit may be presumed
when we find them overwhelming and convincing acute observers and
clear thinkers like Professor Wallace and W. Crookes, and men so
inveterately opposed to such notions as Robert Owen and his more
highly cultivated son.
But before Spiritualism can produce much impression on the world
it must become more open and rational in its means and more practical
in its ends. What signifies the most wonderful sights and sounds
attested by select witnesses if they cannot be made patent to all?
These are not the ways of true science. When a scientific discovery is
made, it is so put before the public that it can be thoroughly under¬
stood, and over and over again verified or disproved. Moreover, till
the marvels are made useful in some shape, turned to advantage in
promoting human welfare, it is not to be expected that much
importance will be attached to their alleged occurrence. Till the
spirits are got to talk after some less absurd and occult fashion, and
choose to tell us something we do not know already, the truth of
which can be tested, and which there is some good in knowing, their
pretended utterances can hardly obtain much attention or respect.
Advertising for Ghost-Seers.—A correspondent writes that the
following advertisement appeared last week in the columns of a morning
paper:—“If this should meet the eye of any persons who have been
visited by the spirits of their dead relatives or friends, or who may have
seen an angel, or anything supernatural, they may hear of something to
their advantage by addressing Mr. Cecil Isaacson, 2, St. Ann’s Cottages,
Westfields, Barnes, S.W.” On making application at the address given
the following reply was received:—“ Sir,—I only wish to receive
evidence from eye-witnesses in our generation of angels, spirits, or
devils,—Yours faithfully, Cecil Isaacson.”
July 26, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, E.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, P.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him.: The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JAOKSON DA.YIS,
The f Poughlceepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IV.' „ .
The Thinker. „ V. „ . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography oi A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . . •
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , . . . •
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . . . •
s. d.
16 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 0
3 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
7 6
6 0
6 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 21
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spimtualist Newspaper . , 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... fi
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 A.n.j. Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trim Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . ,10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
hy Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . , .18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced ly Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Othee
Obseevees in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messes. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Orookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritnalistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”-—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OP IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III ^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—^Experiments
—^Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—^Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine •— Descartes — Spinoza — Hei bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—^Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrewsf Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet-Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God-
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI ^Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t&
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Mavtineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections. -
Loudon, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot he had separately. Price,
carriage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, J£110s,
London; W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
iii
Price five shillings. Crown Svo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book hy
“M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OP CONTENTS.
List of Works hearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics,
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II  From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. E. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III  From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. It. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Jo ad, and Professor Bar ,
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence
C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial Svo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place In public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given throug ••
thewriting-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon)'”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakot—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Trehenie)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resur^am. ^ By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Yay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci, Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—.
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism,
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Kusse
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained, at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed Information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age."
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 26, 1878,
A
H
NEW ERA.
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
Jusfc Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
LORD BEAOONSPIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING: BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating ii'mls..'’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
I “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
BY WILLIAM H. HAEEISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1. —Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shaeabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wolblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press,
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads:—“No' one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result."
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
JT'NO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
-2 « Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.’’
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A'
• GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIO
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement,' and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise_.  
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and Is thus ot itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the hody healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease :—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
cxless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
out very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
toahmyfriends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. —I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
Sou have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
[ARK—End’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
. Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Bo'eAgent for Pam—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIN.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russeh-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“A volume of remarkably good verse... .Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller,
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.. .. They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar In
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.”
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous,...
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentindental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Henfans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, HOod, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malmem News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of Its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of’
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \_N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,’’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] . .. “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, isoound in cloth richly gUt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
• Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll,
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeri c
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effectof Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuitiou—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sjmpathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—^Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions m
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S ii ritual
World.
CHAPTER Vni: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subieet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER. XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Scienc
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of th
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cleyrg-
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Bevebidgk & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W, Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C,
