Begistered jls a Newspaper.
joUf{X&i<
Of ^^YCSO^OG^ldS^
p|| #Itei foiflj Sgirxtwalism m @>xmi §nfaiiti
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : xi, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosquc 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE’: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 3x9, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 320.—(Voi,. xiil-No. 15.) LONDON : FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontents.
France:—The Psychological Society of Paris—Count De
Bullet’s Experiments—Spirit Photography in the Dark
—Practically Speaking, No Thieves in Paris—No
Poorhouses in France—The French Working Classes,
Fanners, and Small Tradesmen much Better off than
the English—The Chief Cause of Crime and Destitu¬
tion in England—The Palace at Versailles—Napoleon
the First on Spiritualism, Mesmerism, and Phrenology
—The Prussians in Versailles—The Home of a
Spiritualist “Requisitioned” by them—The Days of
the Commune—The Appearance of the Spirit of Jose¬
phine to Napoleon  ...   • ... 169
A Prophetic Dream. By S. E. De Morgan  ... 172
Extraordinary Manifestations through Henry Slade’s Me-
diamship. By Louisa Andrews 172
Spontaneous Psychological Phenomena. By Eliza Boucher 173
A Presentation to Mr. Colville 173
Spiritualism in France:—The Holy Places of Boulogne.
By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S., Author of Letters to
Miss Martineau ...     174
The Death of Prince Wittgenstein 174
Spiritual Phenomena in France:—Spirit Photography in
the Dark. By Count de Bullet 175
The Self-registering Apparatus for Weighing Mediums
during Manifestations      178
A Ghostly Concert     ... 178
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Special
Meeting of the Council 179
Correspondence:—What Truth is there in Homoeopathy?—
A Spiritualistic Community  ... 179
The Arya Samaj of Aryavart  180
Answers to Correspondents...   180
Paragraphs :—The Birmingham Psychological Society, 171;
What The Standard Newspaper Thinks, 173; Mrs.
Weldon and the Lunacy Laws, 174; The Late Pre¬
sident Lincoln, 178; Death-Bed Repentance, 178; A
Scottish Ghost      179
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress oj the Science and Ethics oj
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rnHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess or
Caithness;-His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-fiolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Oourt of Portugal; Mr. 0. C. Massey,
Barrister-atrLaw; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav,(Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C.-Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edih.); Mi^J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S. ;
Mr. H. D. Jeneken, M.RL, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A^LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. I0d.;
In the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churehyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street Louden, W,0,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOR OCTOBER.
Friday, Mh.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Tuesday, Sf/t.—Special Council Meeting, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Ordinary Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, Ilf A.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ 18fft.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, IZrd.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 25th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
,, „ Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of boobs on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MR. and MISS DIETZ, having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (“One of
the most successful series ever known in London”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—Coal-
broobdale, October 29; Glasgow (City Hall), November 2;
Deal, November 19; Maidstone, November 20; Perry Barr,
December 8; New Swindon, January 8, 1879. Favourable
terms arranged with Institutes or with Progressive Societies,
en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture on
“ American Humour,” illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors.
Now Ready. Price 2s. 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
P UBLISHED QUAR PERL Y.
October.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Why must I do what is right ? By St. George Stock.
II.—Astrology, Ancient and Modem.
III.—Recent Investigations in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas.
IV.—Immaterialism at Brussels. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Inspiration and Symbolism. By Mrs. De Morgan.
VI.—James Hinton’s Philosophy.
VII.—^Pilgrimages in France. No. III.—Pontigny and the
Shrine of Saint Edmund. By Rev. H. N. Grimley.
VIII.—Bbhme’s Seven Days of Creation—A Study. By A. A.
Watts.
IX.—Materialistic Mysticism.
Hutton on Scott’s Supernaturalism—The Education of the
Feelings—Around the World with Dr. Peebles—Evolution.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price 6d.; post free, 7£d.; cloth.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays ■won the Gold and Silver Prize Medals
of the British National association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
TMPOSSIBILITIES MADE PROBABLE.
JL Consisting of three propositions, viz.:—1. Vitality makes
Matter. 2. Soul is Omnipotent. 3. A Persistent Life Natural
to Man. By J. M. London: Charles Watts, 84, Fleet-street,
E.O. Price 6d,
EYUE SPIRITS, Jonfnal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
ANTED, by a SPIRITUALIST, a situa-
tion as Collector or Timekeeper ; would take care of
offices. 25 years’ character, and good references. Address:
J, Cain, 8, Bloomfleld-road, Burdett-road, Bow, E.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
Circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for Ijd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings,London, E.O.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in , the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 11, 1878.
J3RITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF i
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Caider, Eb<1., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.WV
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Dldsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1. Bemard-villas, Tipper Norwood.
Fitz-Geral'l, Mrs , 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond O., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Biixton^
S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdongall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, IV..
Honvwood. Mrs.. 52, Warwiek-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C,
Massey, C. C-, Bandster-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,.
London, E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Bose-yilla, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, 3ST.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W~
Council.
Adsbead, W- P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , Lane-ley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill-
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill. I
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Vale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W, H„ 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.IV.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, ISiark-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, IV.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Eflmands, T. H , 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59. Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G.. 6. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart,, Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfield, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.IV.
Lament, John, 199, London-road. Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A., 14, Wilton-road, Dalston.
Mi all. Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road, Dalston.
Morse, J J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Staipton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill. W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian. 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcllffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford.
Theobald, Mnrell. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tiieobald, Mrs. M,, 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen. R. Pomeroy, 40, Ciaverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M..T., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh. 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Caider, Esq,, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Caider, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W> Gray, Esq, G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg. Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Voh Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
‘The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinek-Holmfeid, Pinneherg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. CoraL. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sfreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Ma.xmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Gennany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, G. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bouriere*, St. Maur les Fosses, pris Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel.Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Mqntgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, ChausseeSt.Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelies.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe. Paris,
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 80, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq.* F.R.G.S., Waldroft Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epryjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Yasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 28,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBO.RN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts\pf London.
Attractions of the Ohief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Customs. 
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
WORKS BY THE COUNTESS OF CAITHNESS.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”'
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler's Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX. Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness,
—XXX. Farewell to Earth;
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 6s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass, Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., <fec. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
RIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five,
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver publio or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from Ip.m,
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS. M.G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Clairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
C1URATIVE MESMERISM AND CLAIR-
J VOYANCE.—Professor Adolphe Didier (33 years estab¬
lished) attends Patients and may be consulted at bis residence
from 2 to 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
Consultations by letter.
MESMERIC HEALER.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vemon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
NOTICE.—M. FOX KANE receives friends
at 14, Southampton-row, London, Mondays, Wednes¬
days, and Fridays, from 2 to 5 p.m. A circle on reduced terms
on Tuesday and Thursday evenings, from 8 to 10.
Annali dello SPIRITISMO IN
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete.
Published on the 15ih of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, vift Boglno, No. 23.
Heaven opened* or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Oloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
rilHE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s, 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
til % I’jjogr^as uf anlj ^i|qa of jUjtnftitmfbtit.
No. 320.—Volume Thirteen; Number Pifteeji.
LONDON, FRIDAY
FRANCE.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS—COUNT DE BULLET’S EXPERIMENTS—
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY IN THE DARK—PRACTICALLY SPEAKING, NO THIEVES
IN PARIS—NO POORHOUSES IN FRANCE—THE FRENCH WORKING CLASSES,
FARMERS, AND SMALL TRADESMEN, MUCH BETTER OFF THAN THE ENGLISH
—THE CHIEF CAUSE OF CRIME AND DESTITUTION IN ENGLAND—THE
PALACE AT VERSAILLES—NAPOLEON THE FIRST ON SPIRITUALISM, MES¬
MERISM, AND PHRENOLOGY—THE PRUSSIANS IN VERSAILLES—THE HOME
OF A SPIRITUALIST “ REQUISITIONED ” BY THEM—THE DAYS OF THE
COMMUNE—THE APPEARANCE OF THE SPIRIT OF JOSEPHINE TO NAPOLEON.
(From our Special Correspondent.)
Paris, Friday.
The new Psychological Society of Paris tends to unite
those French Spiritualists who devote themselves almost ex¬
clusively to the promulgation of the doctrines of Allan
Kardec, with the less numerous Spiritualists who are chiefly
interested in the scientific and experimental aspects of the
subject. The rooms of the Society are at 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, close to the Palais Royal, a central position
half way between the fashionable and the unfashionable
parts of Paris ; it is, moreover, very nearly in the centre of
the city, and close to the chief national theatre of France.
The establishment is under the management of M. Ley-
marie, who is much assisted in his duties by Madame
Leymarie. The society has the whole of the first floor of j j
the building, consisting of an elegant room for public j \
meetings, a waiting room, and a publishing office ; there
are in addition some private rooms used by M. and Madame J
Leymarie, who, however, do not reside on the premises, j
The public room is a somewhat better one than the public j [
room of the British National Association of Spiritualists j
at Great Russell-street, but as yet not nearly so expensively j
furnished and stocked. Two public meetings of the society j
are held weekly, the one on the Tuesday and the other on j
the Wednesday evening ; each begins at 8.30 p.m. At the j
Tuesday evening meetings there are experiments in mes- I
merism and scientific discussions ; at the Friday evening j
meetings the doctrines of Allan Kardec occupy attention, j
One evening, while I was there, an indignant Frenchman I
came out of the public room into the publishing office, and i
complained in a grieved tone of voice about the promulga- [
tion by an individual in the room of the doctrine that the j
perisprit and the esprit were the same thing, though what |
Madame Leymarie, who was not present at the debate, had
to do with it, I could not divine. j
The older Society, for the promulgation of the books of j
Allan Kardec, acts in harmony with the new Psychological
Society, and M. Leymarie is the chief working officer in !
both. I am much indebted to the facilities given me by |
M. and Madame Leymarie for the acquisition of information !
about Spiritualism in Paris, also to the Count de Bullet, j
the Baron Du Potet, and Dr. Locander. The latter, who is j
a Swedish Spiritualist, but who has long resided in America j
and in Paris, has within the last few days removed per- j j
manently to Naples. |
The Count de Bullet had invited me to one or two seances |
with Mr. Firmin, but during the greater portion of my stay i <
in Paris Mr. Firmin was in Spain, and after his return j ]
Count de Bullet found that he was much out of power, so j1
that scarcely any manifestations could be obtained. I am j!
practically versed in all the ordinary processes of photography, J
also in several extraordinary processes not used by those
who follow photography for commercial purposes, so should
have been much interested in witnessing the remarkable j
phenomenon of the photographing of spirits in pitch dark¬
ness. Outside Spiritualism nothing of the kind can be
done, for although photographs can be taken in absolute j
darkness, by the aid of some of the invisible rays proceeding
from luminous sources, namely, the ultra-violet rays of the
spectrum, their production in sufficient abundance to take a I
camera picture by their reflection from a solid object would >
OCTOBER 11th, 1878.
be so enormously expensive as to be impracticable. The
cheapest method of obtaining them is I think from the
electric light, by cutting off all the visible rays by optical
methods, without cutting off the extra-violet rays ; but the
invisible rays from each electric light so applied, would have
an infinitely feeble effect when directed upon an object
intended to be photographed in the dark by means of a
camera.
The Count de Bullet stands almost alone in France in
following up the English or experimental mode of advancing
Spiritualism, as distinguished from the other method, namely
the promulgation of various religious doctrines. As a
matter of fact, inquirers can get almost any religious doctrines
they like from mediums, for mediums are mesmeric sensitives,
and in their trances they often give out the ideas of the
inquirer without knowing it, because of the unconscious
influence of the one mind over the other. And those
inquirers who are incompetent go still farther, for by means
of leading questions they force the answers they want upon
doctrinal subjects.
The Count de Bullet informs me that he has guarded
against anybody anywhere impressing an invisible image upon
his plates. He uses dry plates, which of late years have been
vastly improved in sensitiveness, and he has patiently
acquired the art of developing them himself, that no
photographer may impress an image upon them after
they leave his hands, and that he may occasionally
test a batch of plates, to see that there are no
invisible images on them before he uses them. They are
exposed upon the spirit forms in a camera in total dark¬
ness, and he finds that there is a true relation between the
forms and the sizes of the images produced, according to
the position of the forms and the way in which they were
focussed. One of Mr. Dallmeyer’s excellent lenses is used
for the purpose. Count de Bullet tells me that if he puts
the lens out of focus a blurred picture is obtained, showing
that the lens actually plays a part in the operations. One
day a good critical witness asked if he might place his
hat, with a card sticking in the hat-band, alongside the
spirits ; this being agreed to by the spirits and the medium,
the hat was placed in position, and a picture of it, as well
as of folds of spirit drapery, came out upon the plate. The
Count has generously presented me with prints of all the
spirit-photographs obtained by him during the series of
experiments of some months past; they are large and
exceedingly interesting; moreover, they differ in their
general appearance and characteristics from any which have
been obtained in England at any time. Not only has he
presented me with a set of the photographs, but with some
for the British National Association of Spiritualists.
Count de Bullet pays Mr. Firmin a regular salary, on
condition that he shall give stances to himself alone, so
that the phenomena may be allowed to develop rapidly,
and not be kept back by his sitting for miscellaneous ob¬
servers. At seances where the sitters are more or less
changed every night, the new comers always desire to see
achieved results, and not attempts at new ones which, of
course, are at first failures to a greater or lesser extent.
This is the reason why the manifestations of most profes¬
sional mediums present new phases so very slowly.
Count de Bullet’s experiments necessarily involve him in
great expense, and occupy his time for two or three hours
a day nearly all the year round, for which unwearied and
disinterested work he is entitled to the gratitude of
Spiritualists all the world over.
Mr. Lacroix, the Canadian Spiritualist, who has occa¬
sionally sent letters about Spiritualism in Paris to this
journal, has left France for Algiers.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory will have arrived in London
170
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 11, 1878.
from Paris at about the time that! these lines are in print. I
I am glad to say that it is probable that those faithful repre- j
sentatives of Spiritualism in Austria, the Baron and j
Baroness von Yay, will visit her in London in January j
next.
Practically speaking, there are no thieves in Paris, the
number of cases of theft which occur in a year in this
great city being so few as to be unworthy of mention, and
a considerable portion of these few thieves prove, when
caught, to be Englishmen or Belgians. This absence of
theft is due to the French system of land tenure, in conse¬
quence of which the working classes and small tradesmen
are very much better off than in England, so have less
temptation to crime ; they have more than enough to live
upon, are not overworked, and spend a fair proportion of
their time in relaxation and amusement. Large portions
of Paris do not belong to one great freeholder, but to a very
large number of small ones, hence people who are tolerably
well off are numerous. It is the same in the rural districts.
The numberless peasant proprietors in their little holdings,
dwell in cottages which are buried in flowers and fruit
trees, and from which they cannot be driven by another
man. Hence, as men who are tolerably well to do are
plentiful, there are no poorhouses in France; if a man falls
into distress, he has well-to-do neighbours who can help
him if he deserves it. In England this is not the case,
because great numbers of people are under a perpetual levy,
from one generation to another, to pay constantly rising
rents to a few individuals. When caseg of distress occur,
the neighbours being kept poor themselves by the system
are unable to help, hence the necessity for workhouses to
accommodate destitute people on a large scale. The rights
of property are wholly set at defiance by the English
system of land tenures. No property is created except by
labour, and as fast as the great bulk of the English people
create property, it is swept away from them in the shape
of rents made payable to a very few men. If there were
no labour there would be no property; if a man were a
savage and lived on blackberries, he or somebody else must
work to pick the berries. If he indulges in dress, in
the shape of a coat of paint, somebody has to work
to make the paint; if he possesses bows and arrows, some¬
body worked to make them. In the selfish era of the
development of the human mind, through which stage the
world has not yet passed, people with the best brains seek
to dominate those of feebler quality, and to convince them
that although no property is made except by labour, nearly
all property ought to pass into the hands of those who
labour not, even though the land be covered with poor-
houses, and the bulk of the people lead lives of pain and
anxiety from the cradle to the grave. When property, or
the produce of labour, passes in great quantities, generation
after generation, into the possession of those who labour
not, the system under which such results are brought about
deserves unlimited examination, and is sure to be found
rotten somewhere.
Intelligent foreigners in common conversation speak of
the English system of land tenures as a blot on modern
civilisation. A few days ago I heard at a table d'hote some
Austrians speaking of it as a national crime, and express¬
ing wonder that the people should be so ignorant as to ;
retain a system which has been abolished in the rest of i
civilised Europe; they said that it had so ruined Ireland, J
that the British power could be overthrown if a foreign 1
army could be landed on the shores of that country.
Some few thousands of English live permanently in Paris, j
and among the latter are a small proportion of Spirit- j
ualists. All the latter I have met, who have lived in |
France for years, admit it at once as a fact, never to be j
questioned for a moment, that the French working-classes j
and small tradesmen are much better off than in England, j
The rags, the poverty, the careworn faces seen everywhere | j
in England, are unknown here; and if the people here |
only witnessed such outward symbols of misery and des- I
titution as may be seen in the rags and dirt so common in j (
Ireland and in many of our English towns, it would strike j j
them with the same horror which an average Englishman j)
would feel in witnessing vivisection operations. Jules ||
Michelet, the French historian* says that were it hot for 1'
;! emigration, the English land tenures would speedily force
11 a revolution, but that instead of acting justly, England
\\ prefers to cast numbers of her children into the ocean—
I in other words, to drive them by destitution into foreign
exile.
There is little drunkenness here; those who have lived
| here many years have seen but few cases. Altogether the
| people are more advanced in civilisation than the English ;
I they are superior in culture and good taste, and are less
| stained by individual and legislative crime.
i
Versailles, Sept. 20th.
i • • •
The Government of France holds its meetings in Ver¬
sailles, Paris having too warm an atmosphere in times of
| political disturbance. The palace here, and the parks and
| fountains connected therewith, are on a scale of imperial
| magnificence, and are believed to have cost £40,000,000
| sterling; 80,000 soldiers were more than once simul¬
taneously occupied on the works. It was devastated in
I 1792. Napoleon I. and Louis XVIII. were afterwards pre-
| vented from residing in it because of the great sums its
j mere restoration would involve, but Louis Philippe in¬
curred expenses over it to the extent of 2,500,000 francs.
Nobody who observes it in its present grandeur would
suppose that it had been so recently in the hands of an
| invading army; indeed, the moderation of the Prussians
while in an enemy’s country is beyond all praise; they did
everything they could to mitigate the horrors of war, and
to avoid injury to the triumphs of peace.
In the halls of the chateau magnificent paintings and
pieces of sculpture abound, many of them rich in remi¬
niscences of the life and victories of Napoleon, and as it may
not be generally known that this great soldier and unmiti¬
gated scourge of Europe once expressed his opinions about
all branches of psychology, I here quote the particulars.
The Count de Las Cases, in his carefully-kept daily diary
! (in which he shows himself strongly prejudiced against the
English people and against all Spiritualistic subjects), records
that on the 22nd of July, 1816, the following conversation took
place between Napoleon I. and himself in the Island of
Saint Helena :—
“The Emperor to-day was in a talkative mood. He
spoke of dreams, presentiments, prevision, what the English
call second sight. We discussed all the commonplaces
| which have been uttered on such subjects, even to talking
| about magicians and ghosts. The Emperor remarked, in
j conclusion : 1 All these charlatanisms and many others, such
as those of Cagliostro, Mesmer, Gall, and Lavater, destroy
themselves for this simple reason.—Such things might be,
| but they are not.’ He continued that (man loves the
| marvellous; it has for him an irresistible charm. He is
| always ready to forget those things that surround him, to
| run after things of which he dreams. He will always give
| himself up to subjects which are mere illusions. All that
| is true about us is very marvellous. There is no such thing as
i such a phenomenon. My existence is a phenomenon of nature.
| The wood that is thrown on the fire, and which warms me,
| is a phenomenon; the light which I see, and which shows me
| my way, is a phenomenon; all first causes, my intellect, my
I mental faculties, all these are phenomena, because all these
| things are, and we are able to define them. I shall not go
| farther.’ He added, 41 am in Paris, I enter the Opera
House, I see the actors, I hear the applause, I hear the
music. Now, if I can overcome the distance from St. Helena
to Paris, why cannot I overcome the distance of time ?
I Why can I not see the future as well as the past? Would
one be more extraordinary than the other ? No, but simply
these things do not exist. This. is the reason which over¬
throws, without chance of reply, all these spiritual marvels.
These chalatans tell wonderful things, their reasons may be
just, but they draw from them false ^conclusions, because
facts fail them. Mesmer and mesmerism have never
recovered since the report of Bailly, in the name of the
Academy of Sciences. Mesmer mesmerises a person, and
produces effects upon him whilst making passes in
front of him. The same person mesmerised from
behind, unknown to him, feels nothing. It is all an
error of his imagination and a feebleness of his senses.
The somnambulist during the night runs unhurt on the
Oct. 11, 1878.
THE SPIHITUALIST,
m
roof of the house, because he fears nothing; by day falls | > j
and breaks his neck, because his senses trouble him. One p'
day I attacked, at one of my public audiences, the charlatan I
Puysegur, on the subject of his somnambulist. He j
wished to take very high ground. I overthrew him with I
these few words:—11 If she is so learned, let her tell us |
something new. In two hundred years men will have made j
great progress; let her specify it. Let her tell me what ||
I shall do in eight days. Let her tell me what numbers j
will be issued by the lottery to-morrow.” I did the same j
in the case of Gall. I greatly contributed to his downfall, j
Corvisart was his great defender. He and his kind have a j
great liking for materialism ; it adds to their science; it j
enlarges their domain. But nature is not yet so poor. If j
she were so coarse as to show all things by exterior form,
we should soon need to be, and should become, much wiser
than we are. Her secrets are so tine, so delicate, and so j
fugitive that they escape us all. A little hunchback may j
be a genius ; a grand, distinguished-looking man only a fool.
A great head may contain but one idea, whilst a small brain
may exist with a great mind. We see here the folly of j
Gall. He attributed to certain organs thoughts and |
crimes which do not exist in nature ; which only grow from |
society and the conventionalities of men. Where would be the
organ of stealing, if there were no property; that of intern- j
perance, if there were no fermented liquors ; or of ambition, i
if there were no society ? It is the same with Lavater with
his relationship of the moral to the physical. Oar credulity I
is a defect in nature, and it remains with us to encourage it j
or to overcome it. We scarcely know the features of a man
before we wish to learn his character. Common sense will
reject the idea, and neutralise the effect of the deceiving cir¬
cumstances. Such a one has robbed me ; he had grey eyes ; j
shall I never look at grey eyes without the fear of being
robbed ? It was a weapon that hurt me, and shall I beware of j
it whenever I see it ? But was it really the grey eyes which j
robbed me ? Reason and experience, of which I have had the |
opportunity of gathering much, show that these outward
signs are very doubtful, and one cannot be sure of them.
There is only one way to judge men with certainty, that is,
to see them, to try them, and to put them to tests. After j
all we must confess one sometimes encounters hideous faces
f here he named one that made us all laugh, that bf the
Governor) which put the strongest reason to flight, and
which one condemns in despite of reason itself.’ The Dr.
Gall here spoken of did not fulfil the predictions of the
Emperor, and triumphed over his first checks, in which
he preserved no malice, and preferred at least to forego
them in favour of the applications of his doctrine. He has
said, repeated, and even written, I believe, that the cranio-
logical conformation of Napoleon was the most extraordinary
he had ever seen, and that it partook of a marvellous
character. In the careful studies which he had made, his
principles had led him to suspect that the head of Napoleon
was capable of increase and growth, even after manhood;
and obstinately pursuing this verification, he at last obtained
from the hatter of the Emperor the precious information
that, as soon as the Empire was established, he was obliged
to alter the form and to enlarge the hat of his Majesty.”*
I have paid several visits to some friends here, who for
some time past have much benefited the spiritual move¬
ment by sanctioning the publication of the details of their
private stances in London, at which strong mediums, who
visited the house alone, were held byboth hands by responsible
witnesses throughout the sittings, so as to leave no question
as to the trustworthy nature of the manifestations. One
well-authenticated seance of this nature is worth more than
a score which present loopholes for adverse criticism. One
of these friends has a permanent residence here, and usually
occupies it during two or three months in the year.
In 1870-71, when the Prussians besieged Paris, they took
forcible possession of her abode in her absence, and
billeted from fourteen to twenty officers and men in the
house, in which they lived, and smoked, and admired
themselves in the looking-glasses, for opposite every glass
was a hole in the carpet, worn through to the floor. The
linen suffered considerably, since some of them were in the
habit of going to bed in their boots and spurs. The
* Las Cases’ Memorial de Sainte Helene, p. ICO. (Translation.)
Prussians ordered the town of Versailles to supply them
with stated quantities of wood during the winter, the result
of which was that the lady of the house received from the
Corporation a bill which came to 3,000 francs (about £120)
as her share of the impost. When the Prussians cleared
out the English Ambulance was quartered on the premises,
and a young man at the head of the Ambulance left one of
my friends, as a trophy, the first flag of truce
which was carried into Paris at the close of the
siege. After the Prussians withdrew from Versailles,
the French officers and men were “ requisitioned ” on all
the inhabitants. My friends suffered with the rest, and
when they returned to their long-deserted home they found
some difficulty in getting admittance, for even the servants’
rooms were occupied by gensdarmes, who begged to
remain, as they were not allowed to sleep in the streets,
but would have to seek refuge in the highways and by¬
ways, which was highly dangerous at that time. This
was during the period of the French insurrection, when
. the Communists were at work, and terrible sights were
seen; the flaming buildings in Paris often lighted up the
country for miles around, and guided many weary
| travellers to their desolate homes, for it was not unusual
| for father, husband, and brother to be on the ramparts.
| One of the most picturesque sights seen was about five
| hundred Brittany sailors marching into Paris, followed by
| their dogs and several mule-carts laden with mattresses
I and linen. It was on a bright summer’s day at the end
! of May, 1871, when these men went forth so bravely, full
of hope and courage; a few days later some fifty only re¬
turned, followed by the sad cavalcade of the mule-carts
freighted with the wounded and the dying.
Although the materialistic Las Cases says nothing of the
following incident in his diary, the circumstance is placed
on record by General Montholon in The History of the
j Captivity of Napoleon:—
“ I have seen my good Josephine, but she would not
I embrace me ; she disappeared at the moment when I was
| about to embrace her in my arms ; she was seated there ;
| it seemed to me I had seen her yesterday evening ; she is
I not changed—still the same, full of devotion to me; she
| told me that we were about to see each other again never
more to part. She assured me of that. Did you not
see her ?”
During* his last illness Napoleon showed that his con¬
science was much tormented by his treatment of Josephine,
j for no punishments in life are so severe and so permanert
| as sins against the affections.
A correspondent says that the committee of the NewcasMe-on-
I Tyne Psychological Society has adopted test conditions at all their
seances for “ physical ” and “ form ” manifestations.
j The Birmingham Psychological Society.—In this newly formed
I society the trustees are Mr. Jabez Lones, Rolfe-street, Smethwick,
Birmingham ; Mrs. Tyndall, 6, George-road, Edgbaston; and Mr. John
P. Turner, Snow-hill. President, Mr. Robert Harper, Soho-hill,
Birmingham ; Vice-President, Mr. Nathan Smith, 74, Aston-road;
| Secretary, Mr. Wm. P. Slaughter, 88, Summer-road; Treasurer, Mr.
Charles Gray, 71, Pershore-road, with a committee of twelve members,
j with power to add to their number. Objects.—“ To continue the invest-
gation of, and to make known to the general public the grandeur of
human nature, as capable of boundless unfoldment in dignity and
organic harmony and power. To morally elevate, and to religiously
educate the men and women of society. To confound scepticism of the
i spiritual, by demonstrating the various facts connected with human im-
j mortality.” Methods.—“ By securing the ministry of missionaries from
the spirit world to minister through trance speaking, normal speaking,
! and through physical manifestations. Also by diffusion of the litera¬
ture of Spiritualism, in the form of books, pamphlets, and periodicals.”
“ The Birmingham Society of Spiritualists ’’ has taken the Templar
Hall, Lady wood-road, for six months, upon highly favourable terms,
and intends to have lectures delivered there on Sunday evenings, com¬
mencing the 29th September, with a tea party in the Hall, at 5 p.m., and
I a lecture by Mr. Mahony, at seven o’clock. It is further intended to
! affiliate the society with the “ Midland District Committee,” about to be
j created, by a conference to be held at Derby, on October 13th, by
I means of which committee a regular exchange of speakers, or con-
I venient circulation of speakers, may be effected through the principal
towns of the Midland District. The committee is arranging with
certain local mediums for regular seances, to which inquirers may be
i admitted free by tickets to be obtained in a special manner. The
library (at present kept by Mr. Groom, at 166, St. Vincent-street, Lady-
j wood), will be regularly augmented, and made available to all member^
of the society.
172
THE SPIRITUALIST
Oct. 11, 1878.
A PROPHETIC DREAM. | j
BY S. E. HE MORGAN. 11 j
Those dreams which anticipate events in so clear and |)|
circumstantial a manner as to render coincidence inadequate Iff
for their explanation are not common, though, I believe, if j||
notes were kept of all these, they would be found to occur I j j
often enough to set their reality beyond a doubt, and to m
furnish matter for psychological study. They are often of j < J
no importance; they lead, seemingly, to nothing; and j) j
though they may sometimes serve as useful warnings, I ij
believe they oftener have no traceable purpose at all, unless <
to prove the truth of the fact that time^ as we understand
it while in the body, bears a different relation to us when in
a spiritual state. j
1 took my family, consisting of my daughter, my daughter- | j
in-law, the four young children of the latter, and a servant, I i
into Dorsetshire five weeks ago. Four days before we left j
London I awoke from a sleep or doze with an image vividly j !
depicted on my mind. I was sitting on a bank reading, j j
My daughter-in-law started up suddenly and ran to a spot j j
grown over with weeds, briars, and dank grass. Then I saw | |
her catch up one of the little children, who was running to j j
the same spot. She looked at the place, and called out to j
me that there was a deep well there. I felt a sense of relief j |
that the child was safe, but was so impressed with the dream, |
or vision, that I described it at once to her, and it was men- j !
tioned afterwards to others. | |
When we arrived at the railway station we were met by the j j
landlord of our lodging, who was to drive us in a waggonette to j j
the village. On the way I asked him if he had a well on his I j
ground, as we had little children with us. He replied that j
there was a well in the house, but it was covered, and had a !
pump over it. j
Three or four days after our arrival we were sitting read- |
ing on a green ridge in a field belonging to our landlord, i j
The children were playing a little way from us, and their I
mother was beside me. All at once she started up and ran
to a spot at a little distance where rough coarse grass and j I
weeds hid what was directly behind. The youngest child, a j
baby of two years old, was running to this place, and as he
approached it his mother caught him up, turning round to me l
and exclaiming, ff. Oh ! here is a deep well.” We then
remembered my dream and our intended precautions.
But the dream was really of no use as a warning^ for we j
had quite forgotten it, having been made easy by our land- j j
lord’s assurance that all was safe. j \
Chelsea, October 3. j j i
EXTRAORDINARY MANIFESTTION8 THROUGH HENRY j
SLADE’S MEDIUMSHIP. j
BY LOUISA ANDREWS.
In reading the extracts given in The Spiritualist from I
Professor Zollner’s record of his seances with Slade, the [ [
mention made of the vanishing of a small table, in broad j i
daylight, recalled to me an incident which occurred when I |
was last in the house with that remarkable medium in New !
York, only a week or two before he left for England.
In talking with mydearoldfriend,Robert Dale Owen, of this j
experience, he agreed with me that it was best at that time j I
not to mention it publicly. He said that few were yet pre- j \
pared to accept such a statement, and that to most, it j |
would seem incredible. I still feel, though others have j i
witnessed manifestations of a similar nature, that it is in i j
this case peculiarly difficult to impress on another mind the jjj
conviction I myself feel that I was correct in my obser- jj
vation of facts; but, in view of the interest felt just now in j j
Slade’s mediumship, I offer what may at least be received j j
as suggestive of a possibility, to be verified by careful and i j
conclusive investigation in the future. j j
I had been for some weeks in the house with Mr. Slade, ! j
when one afternoon I entered the sitting-room, where we jj
usually sat together when he was disengaged. He had been j j
complaining of headache during the day, and was leaning j j
back comfortably in his favourite chair, when, as I entered j j
the room and approached him, he rose, offering me his seat, jjj .
Thinking him most in need of it just then, I refused, but he j j I
insisted, and laughingly placing his hands on my shoulders, j j
seated me in his place. 11
After exchanging a few words, he crossed the room, and
entered a little recess or closet (having only the one entrance),
where there was a marble basin and fount for letting on the
water, saying he must bathe his forehead and wash his
hands. This closet was so very small that the door was
never shut when any one entered it to draw water. I
watched this door, thinking—“ When he comes out I shall
make him take his own seat again, for I know he feels tired
and poorly.” Presently, I saw the door, which had been
about half way open, closing slowly, and noticed that it was
shut quite tight, so that the latch caught. I wondered at
his shutting himself up in that dark place where there was
scarcely room to turn, and waited expecting every moment
to see him come out again. If I had not distinctly seen the
door as it was being gently pushed or drawn to and shut, I
should have thought that, somehow, he had managed to slip
out and leave the room by the hall door, although both that
and the closet were in full view opposite me, and although I
had not been conscious of turning my eyes away for a single
instant. But the closet door could, by no possibility, close
and latch of itself. It was large and heavy, and there was
not a breath of air. Some one must have shut it; and who¬
ever did so must have been either within the closet, or in
full view outside. I know that no one had entered it but
Slade, and if outside he must have been seen by me, while
in fact I remarked particularly the deliberate manner in
which the door was moved in shutting it, and as I watched
it my vision was unimpeded by any intervening object. I
was still watching when the lunch bell rang, and after wait¬
ing a few minutes longer, I went down into the dining-room,
where the first thing I saw was Slade in his usual place at
table. I exclaimed, “ How, on earth, did you get down
here?”—to which he replied, t( I was just wondering that
myself, for the last thing I remember was going to wash my
hands up stairs, and then, all at once, I found myself here,
feeling as if I had just awakened, and without any recollec¬
tion of having left the sitting-room, or of coming down the
stairs.” When we had our next seance the medium was
entranced; a spirit speaking through him told me that they
who had the power had shown me a remarkable form of
manifestation, seldom witnessed, because rarely could all the
needful conditions be secured. We have all read of cases of
disappearance among the fakirs in the East, but I imagine
them to be uncommon with us. When, as has often
happened, objects previously in the room have suddenly
been placed before me on the table at which I sat with the
medium, I supposed I had not seen them in transit, because
of the extreme rapidity with which they were moved, as I
had also, at other times, seen them sailing deliberately
through the air; but when fresh flowers, or large heavy
articles, were brought unseen into the room, and dropped,
apparently from the ceiling, upon our hands, this supposi¬
tion became unsatisfactory.
One other marvel of a different character I will now, for
the first time, make public. In March, of the year 1874,
my sister visited Dr. Slade in New York, I being with my
son in New Haven. In a letter written by her to me, at
this time, she says: “ I must tell you of something
wonderful that took place just now while I was writing.
For several weeks Slade has been suffering from spells of
toothache. About half an hour ago he sat close to the
stove (I being at the desk), and said: 4 I’ve got sharp pains
through that tooth again,’ then added dreamily, ‘I feel
Owassoo ! ’ In less than half a minute he clasped his chair
arms with both hands, and jumped up, exclaiming, ‘0
Lord! ’ Leaning forward, he spat out the tooth and blood.
I asked to look at the place where it had been, and the
bloody cavity looked just as if the tooth had been newly
pulled by a dentist, only the gum was less cut or lacerated.
It was still bleeding, as I stood looking on, and he said the
hole seemed very big to his tongue. He declared that he
distinctly felt the instrument clasped upon the tooth and the
pull, although there was no actual pain, only a great shock.
Mr. Simmons, who sat near, said he heard the grit of the
tooth as it came out.”
I will add nothing to this simple recital quoted from a
private letter, except to state that at the time of its writing
my sister was staying in the house where the medium and
Mr. Simmons had rooms, taking their meals elsewhere,
173
Oct. 11, 1878.
and that on the morning when this singular feat of spiritual
dentistry was performed, Slade had not been out except to
breakfast, when my sister and Mr. Simmons went and
returned with him.
Brighton, Oct. 5th, 1878.  
SPONTANEOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
BT ELIZA BOUCHER.
My next, and for the present, last account in relation to
the above phenomena, is the most marvellous of its kind
that has ever been related to me. I have not been able in
this case to substantiate it by a reference to the persons
immediately concerned, but I received the account (confirmed
on various occasions) from a most respectable and truly
religious woman, who for years has been in the service of one
of my nearest relatives. This woman formerly lived in the
family of those who were intimately connected with the
strange occurrence I am about to narrate, and she has herself
seen the son whose mutilated limb attests the truth of the
narrative. The evidence, therefore, in favour of its actual
occurrence is exceedingly strong—I might almost say con¬
clusive.
My informant in her younger days lived with a family
named J . The mother of her mistress, a Mrs. G ,
had a friend named S , who lay dangerously ill. Mrs.
G and another connection of the J  family were in
the habit of visiting the sick lady, and of endeavouring, as
far as kindly sympathy and friendship could do so, to soothe
her passage to the tomb. Useless however seemed all their
efforts ; the restlessness of the sick woman was most painful
to witness. She kept repeating that she could not die bejore
she had seen George—a son who had given her great anxiety,
and who was then on a distant voyage. Day after day
passed away, and still the same oft repeated cry, the same
uncontrollable longing, the same intense yearning of the
mother’s heart to look once more on the beloved face. At
length the wished-for quiet came; she sank into a profound
and trance-like sleep, which lasted during a whole night
and portions of the preceding and succeeding days. Her
friends, who had regarded this slumber but as the “beginning
of the end,” were astonished on the afternoon of the second
day by her awaking in a frame of mind, the calmness and
resignation of which strangely contrasted with her previous
discontent and restlessness. She at once informed them
that she had seen her son, and added, “ To convince you
that I hare seen him, you will find, on his return, that he
has lost the first finger of the left hand.” The mother soon
after passed quietly and happily away. The son in due time
returned from his long voyage, and on visiting his mother’s
friends they remarked that he kept his left hand concealed
in his waistcoat, and at length discovered that he had lost a
finger. On inquiring the cause of the accident, he told them
that during a violent storm he was on deck engaged in
chopping wood for some purpose connected with the safety
of the vessel, when he suddenly beheld his mother ascending
the side of the ship. So great was his surprise and terror
that the instrument, descending with great violence, severed
the first finger of his left hand, precisely as his dying
mother had described. This is the third remarkable case of
doppel ganging (if I may be allowed the use of the term),
which even in my limited experience has been brought to
my knowledge. We may, therefore, fairly infer that there
are thousands of others equally interesting and suggestive
which are lost to the world through supineness and indif¬
ference. If the recital of the few cases which from time to
time I have been kindly allowed to bring before the readers
of The Spiritualist, excite others to give their perhaps far
more numerous and interesting collections of spontaneous
psychological phenomena to the world, and thus to assist
in the grand work of enlarging the basis of facts upon
which that most sublime of all sciences, the “ science of
the soul,” must rest, I shall indeed feel that my simple
labours have not been in vain.
Albion Villa, Fremantle-sqnare, Bristol.
What heart has not acknowledged the influence of this hour, the
sweet and soothing hour of twilight, the hour of love, the hour of
adoration, the hour of rest, when we think of those we love only to
regret that we have not loved them more dearly, when we remember our
enemies only to forgive them ?—LongJ'ellow,
A PRESENTATION TO MR. COLVILLE.
(From the “ Oldham Gazette? Oct. \.th.)
Probably the most interesting seance that has ever taken place with
the “ spirit world ” in Oldham was the one enacted last night at the
ordinary meeting of the Psychological Society, in Union-street. Mr.
W. J. Colville, a “ medium” of considerable forensic power and mental
ability, who perhaps has contributed more than any single individual to
promote the growth and ensure the permanency of the institution in the
borough and the surrounding district, being about to quit the shores of
Old England for a distant land, the members assembled in large
numbers to wish him God-speed on his journey, and to present him
with a substantial mark of their appreciation of his persevering and
effective efforts in the cause they have espoused, and of attachment to
him as a personal friend. The apartment in which the regretful fare¬
wells were to be uttered was tastefully adorned with bright flowers;
upon the cross-table appeared rich bouquets, the offerings of the
members. Mr. Joshua Wood, who presided, in inaugurating the pro¬
ceedings, said that “ while the spirit friends were taking hold of Mr.
Colville ’’ he would ask the audience to sing the hymn commencing—
“ Star of Progress, guide us onward,
By thy ever glorious light;
May our motto e’er be—‘ Onward,’
Swerve not to the left nor right.”
The last strains of the hymn having died away, Mr. Colville, with half-
closed eyes, and in a semi trance-like state, for a full hour poured forth
a flood of eloquence on “Progress,” with a force and power, correctness
of diction, and over a range of subjects which none but a <( spirit
medium” could have attempted in the short period allotted to him for
preparation. At the close of the address several questions were put by
persons in the audience and answered by the “medium.”
The hymn “ Forward, the day is breaking ” having been sung, and a
few preliminaries adjusted, the President rose to present, in the name
of the Oldham Psychological Society, a testimonial to Mr. Colville,
“ Inspiration lecturer and poet.” He said : On behalf of the members
of the Oldham Psychological Society, I rise for the purpose of expressing
to you their earnest and most sincere thanks for the manner in which
you have served them, both temporarily and spiritually. At all times
you have been ready and willing to do whatever lay in your power to
benefit their society ; and they assure you they are not unmindful of the
benefits conferred upon them by your spirit friends, who have so often met
their wishes by speaking upon any subject chosen by the audience; the
clear, distinct manner in which those subjects have been treated, as well as
the answers so readily given by them to the questions asked, must have
carried conviction to many minds, from which fruits will be seen in days
to come. Neither do they forget or think lightly of your “ poetical
controls,” which have so often both pleased and instructed them by their
charming lays, but tender to them their warmest thanks, henceforth
living in hope that the day will soon arrive when they can listen to them
once again. And now, as you are about to leave for a sunnier land
across the ocean, for how long they know not, knowing you have so long
desired it and your guides recommended it, they would not for a moment
try to dissuade you from it, but wish you a swift and pleasant passage,
and a happy arrival amongst as dear friends as you leave behind. And
now, before I request you to give us the closing poem, I have one little
duty to perform, and, in the name of the society, I do it most cheerfully
and willingly, and that is to present to you, in the form of a gold pencil-
case, a small token of esteem for your work amongst us. It has been
purchased by the pence of the poor, and I hope you will receive and
treasure it in the same spirit of love in which it is given. (Applause.)
Mrs. Jones then stepped forward and said : Mr. Colville, it affords me
sincere and unalloyed pleasure to hand to you, in the name of your
friends in Oldham, this gold pencil-case. Our prayers will arise for
your safety while crossing the heaving ocean, and our good wishes for
your progressive usefulness, prosperity, and happiness will continue to
accompany you in the distant land to which you are about to proceed.
(Applause.)
Mr. Colville made a touching acknowledgment. He said he could
assure the members of the society that it required no material token to
keep him in remembrance while in his native land of America of the many
kind friends he had left behind in Oldham. They would ever be present
to his mind, and it would ever afford him the greatest happiness and
pleasure to hear of their welfare, both physical and spiritual. He hoped
the time was not far distant when he would again meet his kind friends
face to face, and when that time arrived he hoped to find the borders of
their society so widened as to require a room six times as large in which
to conduct their services as the one in which they were assembled that
night. (Applause.) Mr. Colville then recited a poem, and the usual
closing ceremonies having been gone through, the interesting proceedings
terminated.
What “The Standard” Newspaper Thinks.—We do not deny the
existence of spirits, for this world may or may not be peopled by invi¬
sible and immaterial beings; itis the spirits of Spiritualists, thecreatures
who knock tambourines, tweak people’s noses in the dark, stamp with
naked feet on slates, and perform other acts of folly, who never enlighten
ns or give us a scientific fact, but who contradict each other in their
descriptions of the state in which they are supposed to live, and are
content with delivering messages which are a farrago of nonsense, that
we, and .reasonable men in general, protest against. If there be a
spiritual existence, itis a higher and nobler one than that of material
beings. We refuse absolutely to believe in spirits who act the part of
Jack Puddings at the bidding of men who earn a livelihood by the dis¬
play of their tricks. This is to lower the status of spirits to that of
performing French poodles.—The Standard,
THE S FlHlTtJ ALIST.
174
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. it, 1§78.
SPIRITUALISM IN FRANCE.
THE HOLY PLACES OF BOULOGNE.
BY HENBY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OF “ LETTERS TO MISS MARTINEAU.” I
In the account of “The Cures of Diseases near Sacred
Tombs,” I read that “ Joseph Labre was born in the parish j
of S. Sulpice d’Amette, in the diocese of Boulogne, France, j
March 26th, 1748.” It may interest Spiritualists who visit
Boulogne to know that in the splendid new cathedral of j
Notre Dame and St. Joseph, in the old town called the “ Haute-
Ville,” on the south side of the high altar, is one dedicated to
St. Benoit-Joseph Labre, who was a native of the Boulonnais,
having been born at Amettes, near St. Omer. His memory
is held in high esteem and veneration. A portrait of the j
saint distributing alms to the poor of Rome, painted by
Gagliardi, and presented by Pius IX., forms a prominent j
feature in the reredos, which is surmounted by a beautiful !
mosaic medallion portrait of the saint, with views of St.
Peter’s and the birthplace of St. Benoit.
In a quiet valley, a mile and a half from Boulogne, is a
small chapel, dedicated to Jesus-Flagelle (Jesus scourged), j
It is visited by crowds of persons afflicted with diseases, and
who perform pilgrimages thither. The walls are covered
with a number of images of saints and other ornaments
offered by the fishermen, and near the door are two chests j
containing crutches, staffs, and bandages, which, it is said, ];
were left by those who have been miraculously cured.
Close to the town, on the Paris-road, is a small Gothic j!
structure surmounted by a light gilded spire; in the old j
building, on the same spot, the Gospel was preached to the j
Morini (the ancient name of the people), and that about the
year 1100. The Relique du Saint Sang de Notre Sauveur
Jesus-Christ, which the chapel contains, was brought from
Jerusalem by Godfroi de Bouillon and Count de Boulogne, the
great early crusader, and by him presented to his mother Ida, j |
who, since her death, has been canonised. Here, too, mira¬
culous cures took place, and the old building, like the chapel
of Jesus-Flagelle at present, was filled with “ votive
offerings.”
Shrines and holy wells abound. The pomp, and pride,
and circumstance of the pageants held in connection with the
pilgrimages to our Lady of Boulogne, and the grand pro- I
cessions in her honour, and in consequence of the miracle
of the image of the Virgin in the Boat, which occurred in 600, j
cause much public attention to be fixed upon those religious j
celebrations. But there are others—and these not a few—
which bear evidence to the modes of thought and practices
of the native population. Reference has already been made
to some shrines or chapels resorted to by the devotees—the
Chapelle du St. Sang—whose relics are carried in a rank of j
vantage in the general processions; the Calvary to which the j'
fishermen cross themselves as they sail out of port; the
Chapelle de Jesus-Flagelle, to which their wives and chil¬
dren repair both before and after the herring season, when
the boats are away for weeks to the north of Scotland ; and j <
the Holy Well at Wierre-au-Bois, with its curious legend. |
A few more instances may be of interest. The fishing
population resort in large numbers to St. Adrian’s | <
Chapel, at Bainethun, to the Shrine of St. Josse, not un- j I
known to Chaucer, and to the Holy Well of St. Gendoulphe,
at Wierre-au-Bois, to pray for protection against all the |
dangers of the perilous ventures, and for a blessing upon !
their nets and lines. Water from St. Godeleine’s well, at
Wierre-Effroy, is reputed most efficacious as a sovereign cure
for ague, rickets, rheumatism, and all kinds of aches, as is |
evinced by the medley of crutches, bands, and flannels, hung
up upon the bushes around in token of recovery.
Ophthalmia is cured by the water of the Fontaine j!
des Ladres at the Madeleine, upon the Paris road, j]
over Brequereque. Pilgrimages are frequent to the inter- I1
mittent spring at Wismes, over which a shrine is dedicated to i<
its patron, St. Maximius, and to the purling well of St. |]
Martin’s, which issues out of the mould in the churchyard
at Sanghen. St. Hubert welcomes numerous votaries at |!
his chapel in St. Martin-Choquel, and an alter ego of St. jj
Gendoulphe is worshipped at Fiennes. Nothwithstanding all h
| this, I know no place where medical men seem to thrive
better than in Boulogne, though probably it is chiefly the
more superstitious poor and the fishermen who resort to
those holy wells and shrines for the cure of their bodies, the
preservation of their lives, as well as for the salvation of
their souls; but all said, I cannot help recalling a story given
by Bacon of an ancient philosopher who visited a certain
temple to which the superstitious of that time and place
resorted to offer up vows, and to leave their votive offerings
after being saved from shipwreck. The priest, showing the
lists of those who from their vows had been providentially
saved, turned to the philosopher and said, “ Now will you
not believe in the power of the gods.” But the philosopher
replied, “ First let me see the lists of those who have been
drowned in spite of their vowsand Bacon adds, “ Such is
the nature of all superstition ; they note the hit, but not the
miss.”
4, Quai de la Douane, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
THE DEATH OF PRINCE WITTGENSTEIN.
With deep regret we have to announce the departure from
this life of Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein, on the 18th
September last. He was a sincere and earnest Spiritualist,
and beloved by all who knew him. He leaves a wife and
j four children to lament his loss.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.
Sm,—I have had sorrowful news this morning. The
Baroness von Vay writes to me : “ Our dear, good friend,
that excellent and warm Spiritualist, the Prince Emile de
| Sayn-Wittgenstein, has changed his earthly body for a
heavenly one.”
Having had the pleasure of close personal acquaintance
| with the Prince during the ten days that I was his guest at
St. Valery two years ago, I wish to add my tribute of regard
in respect to his fine social and domestic qualities, in
addition to those military honours which, won in fair fight,
are a public and standing witness to his valour.
In affability and courtesy I may say that I never met his
equal, and these were evident not only in his treatment of
strangers, but shone the most brightly in every detail of his
| home-life, in his affection for his wife and little children, by
whom I need not say he was adored, and who have indeed
| suffered an irreparable loss. The Prince’s official relations
with the Russian Court were supplemented by familiar
friendship and intercourse with the Imperial Royal family,
| and often, as we sat sipping our coffee on the balcony in an
i evening, he would amuse us with little anecdotes about the
| childhood of the present Duchess of Edinburgh, or harrow
us with incidents of skirmishes between Turks and Cossacks,
in which he had borne part, long before there was a thought
| of the late war.
As a Spiritualist, Prince Emile was outspoken, true, and
generous; a firm believer in individual immortality, pre-
! served through successive incarnations in this world, or on
other planets, according to the tenets of Continental
Spiritualism.
No doubt there are other English Spiritualists who have
experienced, as well as myself, the Prince’s urbanity and
kindness. I only wish to add my testimony, from personal
knowledge, to that of many who will sincerely applaud and
deeply lament a man whose benevolence was only equalled
] by his prowess. Emily Kislingbury.
Whenever we cease to hate, to despise and to persecute those who
think differently from ourselves, whenever we look on them calmly, we
find among them men of pure hearts and unbiassed judgments, who,
reasoning on the same data with ourselves, have arrived at different
i conclusions on the subject of the spiritual world.—Sismondi.
| Mrs. Weldon and the Lunacy Laws.—Now that a stipendiary
! magistrate has stated from the bench that “ there is no doubt whatever
of the fact that a most unjustifiable and illegal attempt was made to
place you (Mrs. Weldon) in a lunatic asylum,” it concerns all sane
persons that there should be a public and searching investigation into
I this matter, and I should have imagined that those whose names
Mrs. Weldon has given in open Court as having been concerned in the
attempt, would have been the first to insist upon this investigation.-—
i Truth, 10th October, 1878.
Oct. 11, 1878.
TllE SPIKITUALIST.
175
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN FRANCE.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY IN THE DARK. | |
BY COUNT DE BULLET. ! | |
I have the satisfaction of announcing to those of your ! j
readers who have taken an interest in the records of Mr. j \ I
O’Sullivan, published in The Spiritualist^ recounting my I I
experiments in regard to and final demonstration of spirit j j
photography in absolute darkness, that the effort continues j j
to be crowned with success, and that daily, regular, and | i
marked progress is being made towards, at least, measurable j |
perfection. Recent impressions taken of John King j j
are, to my mind, surprising specimens of these new con- j |
ditions of photography. j |
To photographers here, who have seen this spirit handi- | j
work, the whole thing is incomprehensible and bewildering, j j
That a photograph can be taken in black darkness, in the j |
way I describe, they cannot believe. It is past all belief, j j
They fall back on the conservative formula: “ What I do not | j
comprehend; why, it cannot be.” Yet even the best of the | I
pictures bear a distinct and weird individuality all their j j |
own, and are obviously distinguishable in important charac- j I
teristics from ordinary photographs. • j
The puzzle becomes more complex and the wonder more I j
intense when imperfect negatives, from defect of power, are j |
taken to photographers—when the face t{ melts,” or a fully j j
developed arm and shoulder of a young lady, whose pictured j
form was without blemish—perfect the day before—slide !
down out of position, or the same posing figures are shown on j
different days of varying stature; or, as happened two or three j
days ago, “ Angela ” and “ Carmita” standing together, they j
both, at the moment of the opening of the camera, “melted,” j
the lower part of “ Angela’s ” materialised form dissolving, I
and the upper part sinking through the drapery towards the |
floor, and so shown on the plate, while “ Carmita ” went j
clean out of sight. John King, referring to this falling |
away of “ the particles ” when the power ceases to hold them j j
intact, once said: “I cannot give you a better idea of it j
than to ask you to imagine a pitcher of water without the j j
pitcher y Or when, as on another occasion, “Angela ” and j j
“ Alexandrine ” were posing, the former stood her ground j j
firmly, while the latter, at the last moment, weakened and | j
ascended, her foot and part of her leg being caught by the j j
camera, however, before she got out of range. I suggest j |
variations of form and positions of posing from day to day, in j j
consultation with John King, which suggestions are almost I j
invariably adopted, as shown in the results. He exhibits i |
an alert enterprise and a painstaking zeal to do the very 11 j
best possible. When a proposed effect is not accomplished, i H
a good and sufficient reason is given at the time, and what j |
fails on one day is generally done on another. I sought a m
few days ago to have produced in a picture materialised jj
objects which would survive the spirit materialisation, and 11 j
be producible exhibits of the purpose to which they had j !
been applied. So I suggested to John King to utilise my j J |
watch and chain for this purpose, and to have his portrait j j j
taken while holding them in his hand. I I
My watch is of good size, open faced, with a long chain, j |
having attached thereto a large locket of antique form. It I [ i
appeared to me that this would be as convincing testimony, j (j
of its character, as if the spirit had worn a complete suit of j j j
mail, each particular plate, link, and rivet of which would j j j
form a separate and shining proof. John King readily ! | j
responded to my suggestion, saying that he would “try” jj
what he could do, remarking facetiously at the same time, j) j
however, that he would take the watch, but would not pro- j j!
mise to return it. He could scarcely test my faith in a more j j j
sensitive way, as my watch is a valued possession, having j j j
been worn by me for over twenty years, with the locket, j j j
which is an old family jewel containing the portrait most j j j
precious to me. m
On the next day the watch and appendages were placed in | j j
the cabinet, and John King duly posed for his picture, con- j) j
versing or rather conferring with me, during the preparation, j 11
in regard to the process and the difficulties which he j j j
encountered in producing the effects. On developing the j j j
plate it was found to contain a very good portrait of John j | j
King, corresponding with his materialised appearance, so I'1
often before shown to us in the light—the first we have had
of him in this form—holding the watch on one of the fingers
of his hand, with the locket suspended from it. The watch is
shown with such distinctness that the very minute when the
photograph was taken can, with the aid of a glass, be seen.
I have the watch, chain, and locket thus represented
solidlyjnmy possession—convincing evidence for any tribunal
—but who can produce the body or presence, thus strongly
pictured, which wore them on this occasion ?
A universal search-warrant in the hands of the constabulary
of the world would fail to find him.
This picture of John King shows him with the well-known
Oriental head-dress, which he has been invariably accustomed
to wear, whenever and wherever appearing, and through
whomsoever might be the medium, and has a strong resem¬
blance to a portrait taken of him and engraved on wood, as
far back as 1873. He says that the latter was a pencil
sketch made in half light. The artist wrote a description of
John King’s appearance at the time, which was published,
and is as follows :—
Swarthy iu hue, almost like au Eastern, with features of a not very
large type, but handsome character, nose slightly aquiline, eyes dark,
eyebrows and moustache well marked and defined, but not thick, and
these, together with the thick, bushy beard, of an intensely black colour,
the lips thin and mouth well formed, the head surmounted by a white,
peculiarly shaped turban, the ends of which hung down on either side, a
broad, powerful chest, suggestive of the deep, sonorous tones of the
voice of the owner, and the portrait is complete.
Those who have the means of comparison will see the
marked relation the photograph bears to the engraved
sketch, and the reader who examines the specimens I send
you can judge for himself of its correspondence with the
description. I should observe that the watch was found
after the seance, when the light was produced, by my side,
on the table at which I sat, having been silently placed
there, without my knowledge, subsequent to its use as a
supernumerary in the performance. This demonstration
has been repeated several times since, to the exclusion of
other spirit representations, John King remarking that he
thought it better to continue his own stronger power for
the present in that line of development, each succeeding
impression proving more perfect than its predecessor.
When photographs are taken of other spirits, John King
is the directing artist, or manager and manipulator, in ma¬
terialising the spirit, as far as necessary, and in producing
and casting the light on the form. Frequently we, hear
him conversing with the spirit, and giving counsel and
encouragement in what seems to be, at first, a severely
trying ordeal to spiritual stamina. But when he exhibits
himself he has no manager or assistant; he has to do all
the “business,” to personate the past, provide all acces¬
sories, and shift the scenes without help. I asked him
why he did not provide assistance; he answered that to
materialise it would take power that he needed. He has,
therefore, been compelled to agree with me on certain
signals by which I am to know when to uncap and when
to close the camera, so that no movement would be neces¬
sary that might blur the picture. Thus it was understood
between us that when he was duly materialised behind the
curtain, I was to consider the drawing open of the curtain,
which is done, usually with a vigorous effort, as a sign that
he was in position to be taken, and that he is finished is
usually known by raps or thumps on the floor, made, as he
says, with his foot, and at one time by a muffled exclamation,
as if between his teeth, of “there.” When I was about to
take the first of this series of the photographs of J ohn King,
he said he wished a copy sent to his friends of The Spirit¬
ualist, amongst others that he desired specially distributed ;
but that particular one, which, no doubt, he expected to be
generally and critically judged, he wished “ touched up,” as
is the practice with human photographs, John evidently
holding his friends in Great Russell-street in high esteem,
and desiring to make a first-class appearance when thus
permanently placed on exhibition. But I decided to leave
the pictures as they were produced by the combined in¬
fluences of natural and supernatural agencies, so as to allow
no room for question or cavil. I think in this determina¬
tion John King has since cordially concurred, especially as
he made so good an impression from the start. Heretofore,
176
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 11, 1878.
as described by Mr. O’Sullivan, we have had in our photo¬
graphs fresh flowers represented on the persons of the female
spirits, brought on the day the impressions were taken, and
recognised by us in the pictures. But the flowers did not
survive to our vision; they were dematerialised, and dis¬
appeared with the spirits themselves. So, too, we have had
purchased drapery which I produced to be worn, and which
certainly bore the semblance of that exhibited on the nega¬
tives. And I have recognised in the pictures of the two
female spirits, ‘‘Angela” and “Alexandrine,” mentioned
by Mr. O’Sullivan, articles of jewellery given to them by me
years ago, and which have been perfectly preserved and re¬
produced on several occasions. Within a few weeks that
high and holy spirit, “ Glaucus,” has received at our hands
a large golden cross, which has been repeatedly shown in his
“ seraphic ” portraits. But the cross has not been pre¬
served to human ken; it has departed this life, so far as we
know.
Mr. O’Sullivan has so fully set forth the many safeguards
and the long continued incidental and incontrovertible tests
which have been from time to time adopted to secure abso¬
lute verity that I need not repeat them here, but the follow¬
ings points may be noted:—
1st. That I have exclusively employed the medium, Mr.
Alfred Firmin, for nearly four years, holding during all that
time, with rare exceptions, one or more daily stances, realis¬
ing advanced results in all the forms of spirit manifestations,
which have been partially described from time to time in
your columns. The suggestion of photographing in the dark
was first made by John King, as “ a possibility,” months
before the attempt, and it was finally tried, as an experi¬
ment, at his repeated request.
2nd. I manipulate the apparatus entirely myself, and
arrange the focus with • reference to the particular point at
which the figure is to pose, which I designate specifically
on each occasion, after an experimental trial with Mr.
Firmin, according to the length of the form to be taken,
and other varying conditions.
3rd. I bring with me each day the plates that are exposed.
4th. The conditions of the pose are proposed by me
immediately preceding the process, and are generally found
to correspond with the result.
5th. Articles placed in the cabinet a few minutes before
the photographs are taken appear on the materialised forms,
male and female, shown in the pictures produced.
6th. It was only after probably a hundred attempts that
success appeared possible.* Then it was but the promise of
the coming event—partial forms, dimly defined, sometimes
considerably “melted”—mere splashes of dissolving ma¬
teriality. And even now we do not succeed on an average
more than half the time, slight influences defeating the work
of the day. But all this uncertainty, I am assured, will be
overcome with experience. I may add that the feeling of
mortification in taking so many plates to the photographer’s
rooms to be developed, that had no development in them,
induced me to acquire the art of developing negatives, and
thus it is that I have entire command of the process from
the beginning to the end.
7th. The plates are developed by me on the spot before
any of us leave the stance room.
8th. The whole process, except developing, is in pitch
darkness, without one ray of natural light.
This latter and complete demonstration, with the watch
chain and locket, is strong evidence on the whole subject.
John King has promised us that soon he will give his portrait
without his head-dress, and showing his hair as he wore it
in actual life, with his arm and chest bare. Mr. O’Sullivan
is collating and condensing his series of letters published in
The Spiritualist describing my experiments, which are to be
printed in book form. We design to have the best portrait
which can be obtained of John King engraved for the frontis¬
piece. From the many good pictures we are getting of him,
we will have no difficulty in securing a presentable likeness
of our spirit inventor, benefactor, and friend.
I have no means of fully knowing how the discovery and
growth of this new art impresses Spiritualists in England,
which I regard as the intellectual centre of Spiritualism;
but it does seem as if they had been regarded with indifference.
To me they are marvellous expositions not only of spirit
(existence, but of a high order of communicating intelligence
| from that hitherto “undiscovered country” from whose
I “ bourne” travellers are returning so thick and fast with glad
| tidings. Far greater than many of the later, so-called,
phenomena. I say this in no egotistical sense, because I
I hold myself as only an humble instrument in the discovery.
It may not be inappropriate here, while treating of facts
| which exhibit such spirit capacity, so continuously and pro-
! gressively manifested, to say a few words on the subject of
Spiritualism, especially with reference to the new doctrine,
| which has occupied so much space in your columns of late,
and which would prove such results as I have described to be
| impossible.
It appears to me that it needs no extraordinary reader of
events to comprehend the mode and motive of modern
Spiritualism. It was not sent to terrify mankind in its
! advent. It was not to burst on the world in a great con¬
vulsive miracle. There were to be no omens in the skies,
neither were mountains to be overturned nor oceans stirred
to their depths. But it was designed to make its way to the
heads and hearts of men by natural means for an important
| purpose. It came first in its gentle rappings at the little
| house in Hydesville, and has advanced steadily, with no
! startling processes of growth. The spiritual world moved,
| but it moved harmoniously, and, if I may so say, it moved
| discreetly.
It had at last become to be the general thought and belief
of Spiritualists that the departed could revisit us, with, at
| least, the intelligence and emotions with which they had
| gone on their last journey, and we were all consoled with
the assumed knowledge that death was but a separation in
| name, and for a brief time, from the loved ones of our
| affections. And we had comforting and elevating reflections
| on this new faith—its assurance of a future life, and teach¬
ings of moral responsibility. The great body of Spiritualists
| had come to believe that every human being had a soul
! destined to be saved, either with a salvation deserved by
moral goodness, or to be earned by inevitable atonement.
That each soul was on an equality with every other and
j governed by “ an eternal code of immutable laws”—not
special grants. If the spirits of the dead can return, what
| seemed more natural than that they would do so retaining
the advantages gained and developed on earth, and with the
| affections intensified for those whom they had left tempo¬
rarily to survive them ? This was the old-fashioned belief
I | of Spiritualism. It was reasonable; it appeared logical
j I and philosophical; and it was good for mankind. This faith
I | was making its own way with millions of believers in all
| j parts of the world. A faith simple and comprehensible by
| | all—that needed neither hireling priest nor costly temple to
| j | spread its doctrines or guard its congregations.
| I But the new doctrine of “potentiality,” and of “ele-
j | mentals” and “ elementaries,” strikes at the very life of our
| j belief—at the very heart of our hopes. Theosophy amounts
j j to this : If a man happen to be born under fortunate cir-
! j cumstances, with every want and care provided for, and
| | amidst good controlling influences, he will lead in this
111 groove, prepared for him, a blameless life, forfeiting nothing,
| and when he ceases to enjoy it here will pass at once by his
j | patent protected “potentiality” to endless happiness.
| | Should his star, however, be baleful at his birth, and his
I ) life be passed amid degradation, suffering, and sin, he pro-
| | bably loses his “ potentiality,” and descends to nothingness
| I —an inclined plane of annihilation from the cradle to the
| | grave.
j j We are also now required to believe, by Eastern assurance,
| | that Spiritualism has the thinnest covering of reality, and that
| | the so-called manifestations are all moonshine mummeries,
| | emanations of undeveloped, or partially developed, and
| | tricking gnomes, sprites, and elves, who are performing a
| | sort of rough-and-tumble circus, or cunning prestidigitation,
| | for our deception and their grotesque amusement. I take
j no stock in this new speculation (T Orient. I cling to the old
| | faith, because, I may say, I know that the new doctrine is not
i | true in my own experience. I have had no such spiritual
I | association as these sensationalists proclaim. I have not
I | been dealing with spiritual abortions, grubs, and mon-
j j strosities, but with superior intelligences, as elevated, I
5'1 venture to say, in reason and intellectual capacity as the
Dot. 11, 1878.
177
THE SPIRITUALIST.
authors of this chimera themselves. It has been an asso- | j
ciation for years with spirits—that I have come to know, I j j
may say, intimately—instructive, consistent, and progressive j j
in the development of great truths in science and morals, j j
I find, as do other experienced Spiritualists, that the spirit j ; |
world is composed of good and bad in a very natural condi- j !
tion of transition from this sphere. That the good are very ! |
happy, and desirous of aiding others to happiness; that the j j
bad are sometimes very bad, but sooner or later awaken to j |
a realising sense of their condition ; and that perverse and I j
defiant spirits, who would most willingly fade out of ] j
responsibility, have discovered no mode of surrendering their j
“ potentiality,” but are compelled to u move on ” in a career j
of unavoidable expiation. j
I also find that even the worst spirits are helped by the good j
offices and ministrations of the living, and I have known of 1
striking conversions and manifest ameliorations from such |
help. In a word, I have found most things, in my j j
experience of Spiritualism, in harmony with the natural
and generally accepted conviction, and inconsistent with
what I must term the new delusion, I will not say imposi- j j
tion. And it seems like arguing upon one’s own reason and j |
sanity to discuss the proposition at all.
To return to this new art of photography. I speak of it as a | |
new art. Is it not so? We have had, it is true, with
Mumler in the United States, and with others in England
and in this country, as I fully believe, dim and shadowy | |
spectres, produced side by side with human forms, on plates | j
impressed by solar light, and Mr. Crookes has taken Kate j j
King by the electric light. But photographing in darkness, j | j
without a particle of visible light, is something entirely novel. | j
All the scientific men of the civilised globe, in grand con- j j
gress assembled, cannot give a solution on their own ground j j
of these wonderful results which are being exhibited in my j j
little studio. All their intellects, gigantically aggregated, j j!
could not make one spark of John King’s photographic | j
flame. Why is it, I may ask, that this phenomenon has i |
created so little of an impression among our spiritual friends ? j |
It cannot be because it is not new, nor because it is not j j
extraordinary. Nor can I conceive that it is because the j j
discovery will not be of valuable service in Spiritualism.
We have had innumerable instances of recognised materialisa- j j
tions, occurring in dim and mystic light, where often, no j j
doubt, the “ wish has been father to the thought.” And j j
communications, uncountable, in which indications of the j j
presence of relatives and friends have been given, but where j I j
the facts did not necessarily prove the theory, as the | j
incidents may have been communicated through agencies i j
not so familiar. But to have perfected a spiritual process, !
by which the treasured ones who have passed away can j
make themselves unmistakably known by indelible portraits j
from the other world, must surely be progressive and useful. j
Where are the limits to this convincing and unanswerable j
testimony, if carried to perfection, and into general spiritual | ■
practice ? I know not the full measure of its purpose. I |
can see that it may serve beneficent ends. Aside from other {j j
considerations, what startling evidence it furnishes of the j j
elevated character and developing possibilities of spirit j i
communion! While, on the one hand, the spiritual world | J
appears to be greatly excited over <c slate-writing ”—which to
those of us, who know how little obstructive matter is to j
spiritual power, is not a wonder—and others, very | j
scientific, are much aroused by the tying of knots in j j
an endless string—which, on the same principle to which j
I have referred, is easily explainable—and they are eagerly j j
searching after a ‘‘fourth dimension” to account for it, m
which dimension, when found, will, I think, probably be of j j
the exact size of Spiritualism, on the other hand, achieve- i j
ments of the spirits more important are passed in silence or j !
derision. When the process of taking spirit busts in l||
paraffin was perfected here, and I had succeeded in obtaining j vj
the matchless moulds from which the beautiful casts were j |
taken which adorn my parlour—photographs of which I j !
sent you—how was the result received ? K ‘
The process was described fully in Mr. O’Sullivan’s letters, j j |
and your readers were told of the long and tedious efforts n
which were made, until the spirits at last were able, in our j |
presence, to plunge their materialised heads in the boiling j
paraffin at a temperature of 140 degrees Fahrenheit so 1'1
successfully. The statement, if not received with scoffing,
certainly met with amusing disparagement. One of your
critics was sure that the original of “ Glaucus ” was among
the classic statuary in the Louvre, or was it the British
Museum. And the whole thing was explained on the theory
that a squad of “ elementals,” or “ elementaries,” or both,
had made a raid on classic statuary, tugged specimens of
them off to my studio, and marching them bravely up to
the boiling pot, had caused them to bend their spinal
columns in obedience to elemental elementary requirements!
That my dear and venerated friend Glaucus should be the
occasion of such a concatenation !
We were promised further particulars when the statues
were identified. I have heard nothing further, however, of
this classic exploration. For my part, I require no encou¬
ragement in my investigations; they were not undertaken
with reference to what the world might say one way or the
other, and I certainly need no exterior compensation in the
attractive and gratifying pursuit. But to others who are
working new “ placers ” in this golden region of discovery,
appreciation, or, at least, critical investigation may be of
service. It should be borne in mind that spiritual treasure
is the common property of all, and that an established fact
is a living truth in bondage to mankind.
I would have no satisfaction in simply saying to those who
desire to obtain the same phenomena that I have secured, “Pro¬
cure a powerful medium under your exclusive direction, guard
him from all disturbing influences, devote days, weeks, and
months to arranging and rearranging your apparatus, pre¬
paring and destroying sensitised plates innumerable oyer
apparently ineffectual efforts, and at the end of months you
may be rewarded with a shadow of success, which you are
to follow up with the same patience to the ultimate end
I have accomplished.” To say only this would be as saying
nothing, because the conditions are generally impossible.
But I realise that what I am doing is for the benefit of all,
and that my progress is theirs also. John King says that
it is his invention, for the advantage of “ the spirit world
and when he has done all that he can for its completion,
others can use his discovery as well as he, without penalty and
without price.
I send you herewith specimens of the photographs, as
follows:—
Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4—Early, iihperfect impressions.
5— John King and his “ double.”
6— John King with his light.
7— “ Glaucus.”
8 and 9—“ Angela.”
10—“Glaucus” and “Angela.”
II —“ Alexandrine.”
12— “Angela.”
13— John King ; head and bust.
14 and 15—John King holding the watch and medallion.
16—John King “floating.”
• 17—Imperfect attempts of a new spirit.
18—Two female spirits; one losing power and ascending as the
camera was opened, but showing foot and part of leg.
19, 20, and 21—Portraits of a female spirit.
22—“ Angela,” her arm fallen out of position.
I will send you other specimens from time to time should
you find it of interest to your readers.
Since the foregoing has been written, Mr. Charles Hue, a
well-known French gentleman, of Fecamp, who has had a
considerable and varied experience in Spiritualism and
kindred subjects, and who has written a work on magnetism,
visited Paris, called on me, and requested permission to be
present at one of my photographic stances.
Acceding to his request, he came on the next day, and
was admitted to the free examination of the photographic
apparatus and laboratory, and the interior of the little stance
apartment. After critically examining all the details, he
expressed a desire to have some identifiable article of his
placed in the cabinet, and made to appear in the expected
picture, as a test, suggesting his hat for the purpose. John
King wrote that he would try to make it appear, so it was
placed in the cabinet. The curtain was then drawn, dark¬
ness supervened, and the usual process was gone through
for the photographic result, but nothing came; the plate
when placed in the bath proved to be without any impres¬
sion whatever. John King explained that the power was
insufficient, but that he hoped to do better on the next day.
1V8
Oct. 11, 1878.
tHE SPIRITUALIST.
The next day’s stance proved more effectual. As on the j
previous occasion, Mr. Hue tendered his hat to be photo- |
graphed, and as it was being placed in the cabinet, suddenly I
took from his pocket, as he supposed, one only of his visit- |
ing cards, sticking it in the top of the crape with which the j
hat was nearly covered. It should be remarked that this j
hat was somewhat peculiar in form and style—of a sedate j
and substantial character, and of easily recognised indivi¬
duality. When the plate was developed on this occasion it
showed an odd result; the hat was photographed amid I
drapery, but without any spirit form, and two cards ap- j
peared, one overlapping the other. In his hurry Mr. Hue j
had taken two cards from his pocket instead of one. The !
outer card can be read without difficulty. John King after- j
wards wrote as follows: “I found that I was not strong ]
enough to come out well, so I just floated the drapery around j
the hat, floated that also and put my light on it, as I thought j
it would be just as curious.” Of course as a test the ex- j
periment was a complete success, and was highly satisfac- j
tory to Mr. Hue. I send you also a copy of this photograph, j
Yesterday I asked John King if he could give me an im¬
pression of his photographic light, pure and simple, in a |
perpendicular position. He replied that he thought he could.
To-day I have had a perfect representation of it. I will send j
you the picture. It was taken in about five seconds of time. !
It is somewhat pear-shaped, and I should estimate its actual i
size to be about two feet in length and one in width, having j
an apparently concentrated flame in the centre, with wide
radiations. Friend John says that he can make it of any !
reasonable height, and that a trouble he encounters at times
is that it may be too strong and burn the plate. I observed
an entirely novel effect on the plate when taken from the
instrument and before any attempt at development, and that |
was a distinctly defined impression like a deep stain. This
proved when the plate was developed to be the central part |
or body of the light. Of course it is understood that the j
light is not seen by any of us who are not mediums at any
time. Mr. Firmin sees it when in a clairvoyant state, and |
describes it as conical in form when used for photographing; j
and my wife, who is highly sensitive, also sees it when she j
occasionally attends my seances.
Paris, September, 1878.
THE SELF-REGISTEKING APPARATUS FOR WEIGHING j
MEDIUMS DURING MANIFESTATIONS.
Mr. Dancer, the philosophical instrument maker at j
Manchester, has made, under instructions from the donor, |
some considerable improvements in the new weighing
apparatus recently presented to the National Association of j
Spiritualists, by Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Didsbury. Some
American Spiritualists who do not understand evidence when
contained in scale diagrams, published that the former
apparatus might have been tampered with by mediums in ]
the course of the experiments, so Mr. Blackburn has had a
wooden cover with a Chubb lock put over the new apparatus,
for the most unscientific persons can understand the meaning j
of a Chubb lock in the present application. The total cost j
to Mr. Blackburn of his generous and most useful gift has j
been £50, and if those capitalists among Spiritualists who I
have hitherto done nothiog were to follow his example, !
Spiritualism Would quickly occupy a much higher position
in the estimation of society.
Mr. James Coates, the mesmerist and phrenologist, of Liverpool,
is at present in Glasgow, at 65, Jamaica street, where he has opened
an office for the reception of patients and visitors. Mr. Coates will be I
glad at any time to aid inquirers in the investigation of Spiritualism.
The Late President Lincoln.—The Boston Sunday Herald states, on
the authority of one of its writers who carefully inquired into the
matter, that the late President Lincoln, of the United States, attended
seances given through Mrs. Youngs’ mediumship, and that the emanci- !
pation proclamation was advised by spirits.
Death-bed Repentance.—George Combe, the eminent phrenologist, i
used to relate a story told him by Mr. Cobden. He was sitting beside
Mr. W. J. Fox, member for Oldham, when some speaker was defending j
capital punishment, on the ground that the condemned persons were I
duly “ prepared ” for eternity. “ Why,” said Fox to Cobden, “ if that i
preparation were real—if the men were really converted into such excel¬
lent Christians—instead of hanging them they should make bishops of
them.” j
A GHOSTLY CONCERT.
The sixth case cited by Dr. Clarke in his Visions: a Study of False
Sight, is an extraordinary account of visions, being an instance of the
abnormal action of two senses, pseudopia and pseudotia, simultaneously,
which finally proved fatal. The subject was Mr. A., over eighty years
| of age. He was a retired merchant. Possessed of an ample fortune,
he devoted more time to intellectual and aesthetic pursuits than to busi¬
ness. He was passionately fond of music, was familiar with the works
of the great composers, and in Europe listened to artists who interpreted
them. He was also endowed with the rare gift of good common sense.
Few persons could be found less likely than he to be led astray by their
imagination or superstition. Armed with an active temperament, good
| habits, and a strong physical organisation, he had good health until a
j year or two after he became an octogenarian. Toward the close of life
he was troubled with severe cerebral disease. Its precise character,
I however, was not ascertained by a post-mortem examination. The
| account, as given below, is in his own language, with the exception of
changing the first to the third person:—
He had retired, on the night referred to, at his usual hour and in his
| usual health. Nothing had occurred for the day previous, or for several
) days previous, to disturb him in any way so far as he could recollect.
| He had partaken of his usual diet, and followed his customary mode of
life.. Soon after retiring he fell asleep, and slept well till about two a.m.,
when he was awakened by the sound of music, which seemed to come
| from the street near his house. Thinking a serenade was going on, he
got up to ascertain where it was, but discovered nothing. The sound
ceased when he arose. On returning to bed he heard the sound of music
again, and was at the same time surprised by the appearance of three
persons, standing near each other in his chamber, opposite the foot of
his bed. It was his habit to sleep with the gas-light burning feebly
near the head of his bed. He turned the gas on to its full power and
inspected the intruders. They appeared to be musicians, who were
humming and singing, as if in preparation for a musical performance.
He rang a bell which summoned his man servant. John soon arrived
i and was ordered to put the strangers out. “ There is nobody here, sir,”
] was John’s reply to the order. For a moment Mr. A. was not
only amazed, but alarmed. “What!” he exclaimed, “do you see
I no one there ?” “No one,” said John. “Go where those chairs are,
and move them,” was Mr. A.’s next direction. John did so. The
| strangers stepped aside, but did not go out. By this time Mr. A. had
gathered his wits about him, and was satisfied that he was the victim of
! a hallucination; and he determined to observe its phenomena carefully.
Accordingly, he bade his servant depart, and prepared to watch his
visitors. But they were so life-like and human that he was again
| staggered, and recalling John, told him to go for the housekeeper. She
i soon came, and, on being interrogated, confirmed John’s statement that
| there were no strangers in the chamber, and no sounds to be heard.
| Convinced by the testimony of two witnesses, Mr. A. yielded to the de-
| cision of his reason, and again resolved to go on with the investigation
| of the strange phenomena. The musicians had now resumed their
position near the window and opposite the foot of the bed. Mr. A.
j turned the light of the gas full upon them. He looked at his watch,
| which marked the hour of half-past two. He then arranged his
pillows, so as to sit almost upright in bed, and waited for the next scene
of the play. He was able to note the size, form, dress, and faces of the
j performers. One was a large man, who bore some resemblance to
Brignoli. The two others were of less size and shorter stature than
| their companion. All were habited in dress coats, with white waist-
j coats, and wore white cravats and white gloves. After a little time
spent in coughing and clearing their throats, they began to sing. They
sang at first a few simple airs, “ Sweet Home ” among others. They
then attempted more difficult music, and gave selections from Beethoven
and Mozart. Between the pieces they chatted with each other in a
foreign language, which Mr. A. took to be Italian, but they did not
address him. Occasionally they changed their position, turned in
various directions, and part of the time sat down. Mr. A. said the
singing was excellent; he had rarely heard better. After the first
feeling of surprise and amazement had passed away, he enjoyed the
music exceedingly. The performance continued in this way for some
time, when it suddenly came to an end. The singing ceased and the
singers vanished. He looked at his watch, and found that the time was
four o’clock. The concert in his brain had lasted nearly an hour and a
| half, almost the length of an ordinary concert. He reflected for a while
upon this strange occurrence, but, not being able to arrive at any satis-
! factory explanation of it, he turned his gas down and went to sleep.
| The next morning he called at my office, as previously stated, to ascer¬
tain, if possible, what pranks his brain had been playing, and if he
should regard them as a warning of his approaching departure.—Spring-
i field Republican.
II A leopard and a fox had a contest as to which was the finer creature
i of the two. The leopard put forward its numberless spots; but the
i fox rephed, “It is better to have a versatile mind than a variegated
! body.”
A Florida negro mistook a mule for a ghost and poked it with a stick.
| The verdict recited that he came to his death by using too short a stick
I in probing the unknowable for evidence of a future existence.—Spring-
j field Republican.
[ | I cannot get over the feeling that the souls of the dead do some-
i how connect themselves with the places of their former habitations,
| and that the hush and thrill of spirit which we feel in them may be
|| owing to the overshadowing presence of the invisible. Si. Paul
11 says, “We are compassed about with a great cloud of witnesses;”
(| but how can they be witnesses if they cannot see, and be cognizant ?—
* i II. B. Stowe.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
179
Oct. 11, 1878.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF j
SPIRITUALISTS. * 11
SPECIAL MEETING OF THE COUNCIL. j j
Last Tuesday night a special meeting of the Council of the British i
National Association of Spiritualists was held at 38, Great Russell- i
street, London, under the presidency of Mr. Alexander Calder. The j l
other members present were Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. G. C. Joad, Mrs. | j
Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. F. | j
Barrett, Mr. March, Mr. Colley, Mr. R. Pearce, the Rev. W. Miall, Mr. |
Dawson Rogers, Miss Withall, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. C. C. Massey, ; |
Mr. Stainton-Moses, Mr. A. Joy, Mr. Cornelius Pearson, Dr. Wyld, j
Mrs. Edwin Ellis, Mr. Green, Mr. M. J. Walhouse, the Rev. W. W. I j
Newbould, and Mr. W. H. Harrison. 11
The object of the meeting was to consider whether the Council !
would “take any steps in relation to a charge of gross fraud recently !
brought against Mr. C. E. Williams.” i j
The charges were contained in letters addressed to the Association by |
Mr. A. J. Riko, of The Hague. j j
Mr. Dawson Rogers moved, and Mr. Morell Theobald seconded:— | j
1. That the following be appointed a Special Committee to consider the j J
charges made by gentlemen in Amsterdam against Mr. C. E. Williams; and j j
that the said committee be requested to report as early as possible to the ! I
Council the result of their deliberations, accompanied by such recommenda- j j
tions as they may deem advisable. i j
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald moved an amendment, probably half a j
column of The Spiritualist in length. Its main points were:— I j
2. That a decision unanimously arrived at by a number of fellow-Spirit- j
ualists and investigators should, in the absence of disproof, be considered with j
respect, and that the Council recognises the possession by Mr. Williams of j
medial powers of a high order. /
Mr. Algernon Joy moved, and Mrs. Ellis seconded, another amend- 11
ment:— j
3. Mr. Williams having been publicly accused of fraud by respectable and j }
credible witnesses, that this Association will not recognise him in any way in j )
future until he shall have taken some effective steps to publicly clear his j I
character. (
Mr. C. C. Massey moved, and Mr. Stainton-Moses seconded, another
amendment, namely:—
4. That the correspondence and other evidence submitted to the Council be I
referred to the Research Committee, which is requested to consider it in (
relation to the future employment of Mr. Williams. (
In the course of the discussions on the foregoing proposed modes of j
action,
Mr. Calder, the president, said that the Association had no right to j
assume judicial functions in this matter. i
Mr. Bennett supported Mr. Fitz-Gerald’s resolution, on the ground |!
that he objected to go into the case as if the members of the Council of i)
the National Association of Spiritualists were judges. |
Mr. Stainton-Moses preferred that the Council should take no cogni- j
sance of the matter beyond considering whether it should employ Mr. j j
Williams again. All other points could only be taken up with risk, (
because if they took one side, other people would in consequence be sure j
to take the other, and the Council would lay itself open to all kinds of ! j
recrimination. Mr. Williams had not submitted his case tothejudg- |(
ment of the Association, although he had been so well treated by it that I
one would have supposed that in times of trouble he would have come to
it, looking upon its members as friends he could trust, although Mr. {
Williams had, he believed, half promised to submit his case to the J
Research Committee. Not only was the assumption of judicial func- j j
tions undesirable, but as Mr. Williams had not offered to submit his i
side of the case to the Association, how could the Council pronounce | j
any judgment with one side only of the case before it ?
Mr. C. C. Massey was of the same opinion, and thought that the !
consideration of the point whether they should employ Mr. Williams j)
again or not, met all the requirements of the case. 1 j
Mrs. Edwin Ellis said that the National Association stood before the |
world as the most representative body connected with English Spirit- j j
ualism, and when alleged cases of fraud arose, if the Association did j
not inquire and come to some decision in the matter, who was to do it ? j
Spiritualists at large had nobody to appeal to, to keep the movement j j
pure in the eyes of the public, by denouncing cases of fraud, except the |
National Association, consequently the Association was bound to take i
up a strong position. The Council had already assumed a judicial j
position by holding that meeting.
It was here explained that the notice convening the meeting had been j
so worded, that the Council had not as yet assumed a judicial position, j
No. 4 amendment (Mr. Massey’s) was then put to the vote, and on ] j
the requisition of Mr. Stainton-Moses the votes at this and all the i j
subsequent divisions were ordered to be recorded. j j
Votes for the amendment—Mr. C. C. Massey, Mr. Stainton-Moses, i j
Mr. G. C. Joad, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Dr. Wyld, Mr. F. Barrett, and j j
Mr. C. Pearson. Total, seven. j (
Against the amendment—Mr. Bennett, Miss Withall, Mr. Dawson I j
Rogers, Mr. Miall, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. Colley, Mr. March, Mrs. Ellis, !
Mr. Joy, Mr. Walhouse, Mr. Green, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs. i
Desmond Fitz-Gerald, and Mr. Morell Theobald. Total, fifteen.
The amendment was, therefore, lost by a majority of eight.
Amendment No. 3 (Mr. Joy’s) was then put to the meeting.
Mr. Joy, Mrs. Ellis, and Mr. Walhouse voted for it. Total, three.
Ten members held up their hands against it. Their names were not j I
recorded.
The amendment was, therefore, lost by a majority of seven.
Amendment No. 2 (Mr. Fitz-Gerald’s) was then put.
For the amendment—Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. I
Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Barrett, Mr. Colley, and Mr. Bennett. Total, six.
Against the amendment—Mr. Theobald, Mrs. Ellis, Dr. Wyld, Mr.
March, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Miss Withall, Mr. Wal¬
house, and Mr. Joy. Total, nine.
The amendment was, therefore, lost by a majority of three.
The original motion No. 1 (Mr. Rogers’s) was then put.
For the motion—Mr. Rogers, Mr, Theobald, Mrs. Ellis, Mr. March,
Mr. Green, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Colley, Miss Withall, Mr. Walhouse, Mr.
Miall, Mr. Joy, and Mr. Pearson. Total, twelve.
Against the motion—Mr. Barrett, Dr. Wyld, Mr. Bennett, Mr. and
Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Joad, Mr. Stainton-
Moses, and Mr. Massey. Total, nine.
The original motion was therefore passed by a majority of three.
Mr. Dawson Rogers then proposed that the Special Committee should
consist of Mr. Harrison, Mr. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Stainton-Moses, Mr.
Massey, Mr. Bennett, Mr. March, Mr. Joy, Dr. Wyld, Mr. Withall,
Mr. Theobald, Mr. R. Pearce; also of himself if somebody else would
nominate him.
Messrs. Harrison, Fitz-Gerald, Stainton-Moses, Massey, Wyld, and
Bennett then refused to take office on the committee, but after some
conversation Mr. Fitz-Gerald withdrew his objection.
Mr. March said that most of the above would have acted in the matter
on the Research Committee, yet had refused to do exactly the same work
on a Special Committee. No disrespect to the Research Committee was
intended by appointing special inquirers.
Mr. Massey said that the propositions were vitally different, for
the motion of Mr. Rogers authorised a judicial investigation, whereas
his own referred the matter to the Research Committee as one with
which the Council had no concern, beyond asking that committee to con¬
sider whether it would employ Mr. Williams at future seances.
Mr. Dawson-Rogers then consulted some of the members present as
to their willingness to act, the result of which was that the follow¬
ing committee was appointed:—Mr. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. March, Mr. Wit¬
hall, Mr. Joy, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Theobald, Mr. Dawson-Rogers, Mr.
Miall, and Mr. Pearson.
The President did not vote throughout the meeting, but expressed his
objection to the Council assuming judicial functions.
At the close of the proceedings the ordinary meeting of the Council
was held. The particulars will be reported next week.
(Eorresponuence.
[ Great freedom is offered to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.']   .
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN HOMCEOPATHT ?
Sir,—-Not a few Spiritualists believe in homoeopathy. In perfect
ignorance on the subject I took a few pillules lately, and found that they
unmistakably produced the effect they were advertised to bring about.
I Now whether the theories of homoeopathy be right or wrong, it is
j obviously much more pleasant to take a few small sweet pillules than
half a pint of nauseous evil-smelling liquid, so pillules will I take as
long as they produce the desired results. Your journal deals with
most questions affecting human life, and can it not help to throw as
much light on the question of homoeopathy as it did on that of
vegetarianism ? B.
A SPIRITUALISTIC COMMUNITY.
Sir,—It may interest your readers to know that a community is
| forming on the outskirts of London somewhat after the same method
| as that of M. Pierart at S. Maur. The establishment will be, in fact,
a boarding-house, with a rule, not ascetic but systematic, as to diet,
| &c., nightly seances, and daily worship of a strictly unatheistic
| character, calculated to draw out the two clauses of the Creed—“ I
j believe in God the Father Almighty . . . and in the Communion of
| Saints', I shall be glad to answer any inquiries you may forward
to me; but the wish is to avoid unnecessary publicity.
A Clergyman.
An extra supply of this number of The Spiritualist has been sent to
M. Ley marie, 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris.
Mr. W. H. Harrison has been elected an honorary member of the
Mesmeric Society of Paris, on the motion of its honorary president,
the Baron Du Potet.
A Scottish Ghost.—It would seem, says the Pictorial World, that
the inhabitants of Glasgow have been startled out of their propriety by
i the intelligence that a visitor from some of the other worlds has taken
up its residence in one of their schools, and for some evenings back
crowds, numbering from four to six thousand, have assembled in front
i of the place to try to catch a glimpse of “ it,” as in a semi-terrified tone
| the mysterious visitor is denominated. So great is the excitement that
| has been caused that on one evening last week the authorities placed
nine policemen round the building, and on another two detectives inside
of it, in the hope of being able to “ run in ” the perturbed spirit, but
their efforts have been fruitless. A good story was told in connection
| with the affair. The school-porter’s wife, being anxious to relieve the
public mind or to give the ghost its quietus, thought to accomplish this
by lighting up the school. Having completed her task, and being
| desirous of ascertaining the effect of her well-meant efforts, she threw
up one of the windows and looked out upon the crowd. Unfortunately,
! the good woman’s head dress consisted of a “ mutch,” a great, white,
broad-frilled cap, still in not uncommon use amongst the females of the
lower orders in Scotland, and the crowd, which at the time num-
i bered several thousands, no sooner noted her appearance, than with
j one accord every man, woman, and child, whose limbs had not become
11 paralysed with fright, set off at the utmost speed for a place of safety.
180
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 11, 1878.
THE ARYA SAMAJ OF ARYAYART. |
Colonel Olcott, President of .’tile Theosophioal Society of New ■ j (
York, calls our attention to the following rules of the Arya Samaj, 11
which, he says, under the directions of its revered chief, the 11
Swamee Dya Nand Saraswati, Pandit, have been translated j)
from the Sanskrit by the learned Fellow and Brother, Shyamaji 11 j
Crishnavarma, Pandit, for public information. He adds that “the jv!
time appearing auspicious, the Theosophical Society has affiliated with j) j
the great and noble brotherhood of the Ayra Samaj, in whose member- !) j
ship are included many of the best minds and the profoundest scholars j ( j
among the Hindus, and has established a Yedic Section. Its members j u
are already at work founding schools, delivering lectures, holding public |) |
assemblages, translating the Vedas, the Saddharshana Chintanika (or i |
six schools of Indian philosophy), etc,, publishing newspapers, and i ( I
otherwise carrying on an active crusade against idolatry and supersti- I ) I
tion in whatever creed or country they may be found. Admitted to '• :| J
fraternal co-operation in this holy work, the Theosophical Society, in ( j
behalf of the Ayra Samaj, appeals for the zealous support of its )
Fellows, and the good-will of every lover of truth and virtue and \
enemy of ecclesiastical tyranny.” The following are the rules of the (
Ayra Samaj, translated from the Sanskrit for the information of !
Western Theosophists :—
1. AUM. It is necessary that Arya Samajas be established for the \
benefit of all people. j j
2. The four texts of the Vedas shall be received and regarded as con- ! (
taining within themselves all that is necessary to constitute them an j j
extraordinary authority in all matters relating to human conduct; and i 1
the Bramanas, beginning with the Shatapatka, the six Angas or the ! (
limbs of the Vedas, beginning with the Shiksha ; the four Upvedas, the I j
six Darshanas or the Schools of Philosophy, and the 1,127 Lectures on j)
the Vedas, called Shakhas, or the branches, shall be accepted as i \
exponents of the meaning of the Vedas, as well as of the history of the ! j
Ary as. So far as these shall concur with the views of the Vedas, they j)
shall be considered as an ordfwary authority. I j
3. In the metropolis of every country a principal Samaja shall be 11 j
established. All other Samajas shall be branches and sub-branches of j) j
the principal, and in all things subject to its authority; while the j| j
principal .Samaja itself shall, in every department, be under the control j j
of the supreme Arya Samaja of Aryavart. j j j
4. The management of the branch Samajas shall be in accordance | j |
with that of the principal in each country. ! j i
5. The principal Arya Samajas shall, subject to the approval of the | j ]
parent Arya Samaja and its direct chiefs, publish various books in and j j ]
from the Sanskrit and modern languages, as well as issue as its organ ]) j
a weekly paper under the title of the Arya Prakasha (of the place in i j I
which it is published); and in order to disseminate as widely as possible I j I
a knowledge of the truth, this paper shall be regularly circulated among i 5 !
the members and the different branches. j j |
6. Each Samaja shall have a president and a secretary, and persons j j j
of either sex shall be admissible as members. j 1 I
7. It shall be the duty of the president to generally direct and be j ] j
responsible for the proper management of the affairs of the Samaja, and j j i
the secretary shall conduct the correspondence, and keep a written j | 1
record of its proceedings.
8. Any person of unblemished character, who shall be nominated by j U
two members of good standing, will be eligible for membership with the j j
Samaja. i j
9. After having made proper provision for the daily wants of his | j |
family, it shall be the duty of each member to exert himself for the !) !
prosperity of the Samaja with even more zeal than he would devote to j < j
his domestic interests; while the ascetics—or those who aspire to adept- j i j
ship—must necessarily consecrate themselves entirely to its service. j) j
10. Meetings of the Samajas shall, once in each week, be held in | j j
some convenient and appropriate place. 11 i
11. At the weekly meetings questions and answers shall be peacefully j j
and impartially exchanged among the members, and a lecture shall be j j
delivered with an interpretation of Vedic hymns. Before and after the i j j
lecture, songs treating of the divine All, true religious philosophy, | j |
good morals, and sound precepts shall be sung according to the Sama- j j I
veda custom, and, when possible, with musical accompaniments. j j |
12. Every member will be expected, of his own free will, to contribute i ] I
one per cent, of his monthly income, and the money thus obtained j j I
shall be devoted to the support of the Arya Samaja, and its weekly I j j
paper, as well as a school which it shall establish and conduct under j | j
the name of the Aryavidyalaya (of the place in which it is situate). j j
Contributions shall not, however, be limited to this amount, for, as in )j
giving, a member shall be working for the good of humanity in general, j j
and not for the advancement of any sect or the propagation of unphilo- i j |
sophical and undemonstrated dogmas of human origin, the more he |)
shall willingly bestow, the greater will be the merit to which he shall | !
attain. j i
13. In all cases, the Samaja shall acknowledge and show its apprecia- | j j
tion of the efforts of individual members for the promotion of its j j
interests. j v I
14. Adoration, prayer, and devotion shall be offered by the members j j j
to one God only, abstracted from all idea of shape and form, and without j i
any second, as embodied in the Vedas. j (j
15. The Samaja shall observe, in strict accordance with Vedic forms, j j j
all Sanskaras (ceremonies), beginning with the Nishika (pre-natal), and j j j
ending with the Antyeshti (funeral). ! (j
16. In the schools of the Samajas persons of each sex shall be •
received and instructed in the true knowledge contained in the philo¬
sophy of the Vedas and the works of the ancient sages—Arshagrantha.
17. The objects of the Samaja are twofold—the correction and eleva¬
tion of the temporal and spiritual condition of its people, and the good
of humanity in general.
18. As it is the Vedas only which teach doctrines which can bear
the test of logical examination and scientific demonstration, and they
alone which are propounded by the founders of the Arya Samaja, there¬
fore it is required that every member shall follow out, so far at least as
lies in his power, the religious practices contained in these, and these
only. No tenets of other so-called religions which conflict therewith
shall be deemed as of any authority whatever.
19. The Samaja shall embrace every opportunity of sending forth in
all directions, upon lecturing tours, such of its members as are deserving
of confidence and qualified to instruct in the Vedic philosophy.
20. So far as the means of the Samaja shall permit, schools shall be
established in different places to impart instruction to persons of each
sex. In these schools males and females shall be separately taught,
and all instructors and servants shall be of the same sex as the pupils.
21. The principal Samaja shall have control over the work, the
schools, and the expenditure of all money belonging to the various
branches, and in the distribution of the latter shall have due regard to
their several interests.
22. The president and members must invariably treat one another
with great love and respect for the good of the Samaja, laying aside all
party spirit, malice, anger, and all disorganising vices.
23. The examination of all worldly affairs shall be conducted with
strict impartiality, so that from every proposition truth may be extracted
and justice may prevail among the members.
24. Any member who shall strictly follow these rules shall be classed
in the first section, and be regarded as fitted for the holy life and the
reception of the highest triiths of the Vedic philosophy: those who
adhere to them partially shall form the second section; while any mem¬
ber who refuses to openly declare his connection with the Samaja, and
neglects to live according to these rules, shall thereby forfeit his mem¬
bership. This rule must be enforced with strict impartiality, and judg¬
ment rendered only by members possessing the highest confidence of the
Samaja.
25. Every member of a Samaja will be expected (if necessary even at
the expense of his fortune and his life) to use his utmost endeavours to
defend the rights, elevate the position, and extend the influence of the
Arya Samaja and everything connected with it.
26. Whenever practicable, members must employ or serve their
fellow-members to the exclusion of any one not belonging to the Samaja,
and a due regard must, in all such cases, be had to the duties and rights
of master and servant.
27. At the celebration of a marriage, at the birth of a child, or the
solemnization of a funeral, as well as when a member is in any way
highly benefited, it is expected that a donation of money will be made
to the Samaja. The observance of this rule is of the highest importance.
28. No amendment, alteration, or addition can be made to these rules
without notice given previous to the day upon which the matter shall be
brought before the Samaja.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
One op the Five Hundbed.—We cannot act between you and the public in
the commercial matter you mention.
M.—We do . not want any anonymous communications on the Williams-Rita
matter ; the case has been taken in hand by the National Association of
Spiritualists, consequently all communications on the subject had better
be sent to them.
J. K.—We cannot undertake to forward communications to persons who write
anonymous letters in this journal. Such persons are comparatively few,
and it is to be hoped that Spiritualism will soon have the honour of num¬
bering no anonymous letter writers in its ranks.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM,
By P. P. Alexander, M.A. ;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at s'eances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams)
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Oct. 11, 1878.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of "W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by tbe Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, E.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals rwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understpod
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia .
The Teacher. „ II. „ .
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . .
The Thinker. .. Y. „ .
Magic Staff An Autobiography oi A J. Davis .
Arabuia, or Divine Guest . . -
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . . •
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health . . . . .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers •
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology . .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d,
15 o
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . ■ 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . is 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 518 A.o.j. Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert 1-1. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 0
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . I .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale , 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to he
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of it priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III ^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis BUlings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Kane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Chai'les Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relation's of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t&
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter Xv III.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo-
graplis and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriagelpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London; W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new hook by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPIIY,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
1. —That Attested by the Senses:—
iv 0/ Sight.—Evidence ot—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II. —From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E' idence of Hon. K. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III. —From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writin r
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—^Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were •
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence i
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of HenS'
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)’), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakot—The Translation Of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs, Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsuclit. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthi dox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxen.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A.-B arke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Predicdon.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzi;;) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harris an—
Meditation and the Voles of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Kusse,
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 foi' Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age."
THE SPIRITUALIST,
iv
Oct. 11, 1878.
NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATTJTBE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
T ORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people Is really the foundation
upon which ail their happiness and power as a State depend.”
Eor the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
I NO’S FRUIT SALT. The Information Is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. END’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in tbe
colonies, in India, and in South America, bas a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
ITNO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
-IL “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
F75NO’S' FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
li “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.” ■
WHAT EVERY-TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
TTlNO’S FRUIT SALT,
JDi AS A'
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of ffuits from whichitis obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is', its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.  
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
i s particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshing and Invigorating beyerage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation In stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease: 
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
crless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
nutvery badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose, of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yannouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please, — I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “W. B. Beckett.”
Aug. 80,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent ror Pans—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGIN IN GJ3 ,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.1
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave.and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wiriel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joel”—18, The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobble]aw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24, The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted (Jarman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads:—"^ one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all Ul-natured.”
From Nature,
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“.The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine,
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gUt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover. ... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-boob elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous,...
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—-original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [A.R. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them."] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is oound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 8d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late 'Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just’published, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—^Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Ciairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER" VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S ilritual
World.
CHAPTER VHI: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reiclienhach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the-Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science ,
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XIIPhenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of ,tlie
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV -.—Trance — Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at tbe
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’u Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr. Lend >n. and published by E, W Allen, Ave
MarLa-lane, Londc n, E.O.
