BEOlfiTKKED AS A NEWSPAPER.
SK® f^Yd&o^oGUd®^ ^dis^KC^.
©Ib^st |l^bsp^r mttwdefr toitlj SpiniwaHsm In (&xmi §nfamt
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : if, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 335.—(Vol. XIV.—No. 4.) LONDON: FBIDAY, JANUAKY 24, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Hauntings and Apparitions. By William H. Harrison:—
Class I., Death-bed Apparitions: An Apparition Seen
by Lord Brougham—An Apparition Seen by Lieut.-
General Fytche—An Apparition Seen Five Hours after
the Death' of the. Body—An Apparition Seen by Dr.
Kenneth Mackenzie—Apparitions Simultaneously Seen
by Several Persons. Class II., Hauntings: Two Classes
■of Apparitions'.;.* ... ...' ... ' ..."'...     37
Correspondence :—Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Oleott
in England—The Queen’s" English—Spiritualism in
Texas—Physical Deformity in the Spirit-World—Physi¬
cal . Manifestations—Spirit Identity—The Religious
, Aspects of Spiritualism—The Change of Substance—
Hackney Spiritual Evidence Society—M. C.. Constant
on Spiritualism’ .’.     41
Note as to the Phenomenon of Bloody Sweat 47
Concert and Private Theatricals... ...  47
Religious Teaching in Hospitals 48
Remarks of Miss Lizzie Doten at the Grave of Dr. Gardner 48
Answers to Correspondents ...     48
Paragraphs :—Arduous Undertakings, 41; Mr. George A.
i Sala’s Ghosts, 47; Mr. and Miss Dietz’s Recitations ... 47
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record oj the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated, Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” [who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present fime,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness ;\His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay : the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein): Mr. Gerald
Massey: Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyid: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law: Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital • Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Ilonywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn ;•
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Gxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M: Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,‘M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
■ The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places:—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St, Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege:. 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street., Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, ■ Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia:, 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No lOlO Seventh-street.
,A11 communications .on: the business, of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper BranohOfflce, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
RAPHAEL’S .PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERISfor 1879,. containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Aye Maria-lane, E,C,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS.
The Offices of the Association will be open between the
hours of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except
Saturday, when they will be open between the hours of 10 a.m.
and 1 p.m.
TERMS.
A subscription of five shillings a year entitles to member¬
ship of the Association, with a vote at the annual and other
general meetings, and the right of purchasing tickets to the
stances. A further payment of half-a-guinea entitles to one
book from the Lending Library. A subscription of two
guineas a year includes membership, use of the Reading Room
and Library, two books from the Lending Library, free
entrance to the fortnightly diseussion meetings, and admission
at low charges to the stances of the Association. It further
entitles all other members of the same family, residing in the
same house, and who are also members of the Association, to
share in the above privileges.
Non-members can subscribe to the Reading Room at the
rate of half-a-guinea per quarter.
THE EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE
Holds its sittings every Friday, at 6.30 p.m., unless adjourned
by order of the chairman, or by vote of the committee at its
previous meeting. E. Kisiun&btjb.y, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, AKERMAN-ROAD, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. SEP.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF IN-
QUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.—Notice is hereby
given that the EIGHTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
will be holden at the Association’s Rooms, 63, Sigdon-road, Dais-
ton, London, E., on THURSDAY EVENING NEXT, the 30th
day of January, 1879, at 8 o’clock precisely, when the Annual
Report of the Council and Statements of Account for the Year
ended the 31st day of December, 1878, will be submitted for
approval and adoption, Officers for the year 1879 elected, and
other business of a general character transacted.
Notice of any proposed alteration in the Constitution and
Rules of the Association must be sent to the Secretary, in writ¬
ing, one week prior to date of the above General Meeting.
Ameua Corner, President.
Thomas Blyton, Hon. Secretary.
53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, London, E.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following Engagements:—Hastings, Gensing Hall,
Afternoon and Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial
Society, February 4. Plymouth Mechanics’ Institute, February
12 (second time this season). Redruth Institution, February
13. Truro Institution, February 14 (second time this season).
Leamington Institute, February 25. Finchley (Church end),
February 27. Croydon Literary Institution, March 6 (second
time). Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-
street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
| March 12th, April 9th, May 14th, June 11th. Tickets 5s., 8s.,
2s., and Is. -
N.B.—The Second Recitation of the Series will be given on
Friday, February 28, instead of Ash Wednesday, February 26.
The Religion op Spiritualism.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will LECTURE
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
At the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, W.
Admission Free.
Lecture begins at 7.30. Doors closed at 7.45.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. 4. January. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Is Immortality a Delusion? By Epes Sargent.
II.—Sister Celeste. By J. C. Earle.
III.—Spiritual Philosophy in Relation to Death and Spirit Life.
By Rev. J. Page Hopps.
IV.—Inspiration. No. 2. By Mrs. De Morgan.
V.—Reminiscences of George Thompson. By his Daughter,
Mrs. Nosworthy,
VI,—Zetalethes, the Truthseeker. By Miss Greenfield.
VII.—The Mound-Builders. By William Denton.
VIII.—Montanism.
Materialistic Mysticism—A Geologist’s Confession—The Seat
of Evil
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2.”
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “Experiences in the Home
Circle, No. 3.”
April 21.—Mr. C. C. Massey. “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.. “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ Review of the Session
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Nav^l Forces
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can ba
given. 5 per cent for cash;
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. H. SQUINTANI & CO.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludqate Circus Buildings,London, F.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <fcc.
post free, seven stamps.
J. TURNER,
LOCKSMITH, BELLHANGER, AND GASFITTER,
Stove and Range Maker,
1, HIGH STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Every description of Patent Close Fire Kitcheners repaired
and fixed.
Hot Water, Steam, and Bath Fittings.
EIRKBECK BANE. — Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued. '
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 24, 1879.
J3BITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1 Bernard-vUlas, tinner Norwood.
Cltz-Oeral'i, Mrs . 19, Cambriflge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Eitz-Gerald, Desmond G-> M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdoneall.21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood Mrs.. .12, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-Law, Har.court-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhone Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W- P., Derby House. Belner.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Out.ram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.1
Binney, F A.. 24, St Ann s-square, Manchester,
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S.
Chapman, John. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Collin, W, H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar.” Portsmouth
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, SB.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, S, Portm an-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., r.ynwood. Soutliem-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H . 7. Oherstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., .TO. Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. 0., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton. R , 84. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G.. fi. Akerman-road. Buxton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F„ Hale Cottage. Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38. Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton. Miss, 20. Deiamere-crescent, Westbonme-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah. 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. BaH , Lamport-hali, Northampton.
.Toad, G. C., Oakfield, Wimbledon. S.W.
Lament, John, 199, Londnn-road. Liverpool.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-ctreet, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas.71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71. Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J J., Rim Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derhv.
Moses, Rev. W. Stamton. M.A.. University Colles-e, N w
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, 'Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newton. W, 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8. Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C.. 15. Harper-street. Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3. Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers. Christian, 47, Morning*on-road Regent’s-park.
Stock, St. Geoive, M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford
Theobald, Moreil. 62. Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M„ 62, Granville-park, Blackheath. S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40. Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh. 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeda.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman. Mrs., l, Orme-souare, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss TT., 1, The Elms, St. Johu’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withali, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Ponwary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs. CavugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
IsaacB. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epp-jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq,, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54. Denbigh-street, Be!grave-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil. Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street. Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York.
T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston* London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Molra-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 84, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small Svo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq, G. H. Potts, Esq. Moreil Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobltz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Acistrla.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folgnera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
If. Gustave de Veb, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Eenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. LaTresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne. Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street. Carlton, Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr." Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Gennany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia-
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy 1,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bonrieres, St. Manr les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Yemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de 1’Europe,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq.,9 ,Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 286, Chaussee St. Pierre. Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelies.
Lieut -Col. P. Jacoby, 11 jRue de Vienne, Brussels.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—n. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XL Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glen are.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer XXIV. Resurrexi XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirlt-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers In the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, ISs. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened," being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. % FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o'clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St Honord,
Paris.
XT' W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
JOJe engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
MAD. ZACHRAU.—The Great American
Natural Clairvoyant and Phrenologist. Consultation
from 12 to 5, at 25, Granville-square, King’s Cross-road, W.C.
MRS. M. G. PARKER, MESMERIC
HEALER and DEVELOPING MEDIUM, 22, Hart-
street, Bloomshury-square, London. Hours 12 to 6.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vemon-plaoe, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5. Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday evenings, office hours, owing to press of business,
extended to nine o’clock.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
-LjL ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the leih of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, vift Bogino, No. 23.
t> EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JLV logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PS'XCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandbe Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science,
price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London; The
spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
BRIGHTON.—MISS WOOD, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. — Terms on
application.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is ofiered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M, A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Gos-
sormerie. Paris.
ol of if)! anft ^i|)!s of ^ptijttofisnt.
No. 335.—Volume Fourteen; Number Foui^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 24th, 1879.
HAUNTINGS AND APPARITIONS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISOH.
For a long time I have approached no subject with more !|
pleasure than the one I have the honour to bring under your j)
notice this evening. Attention will chiefly be directed to i (
those phenomena in which mediums take no part, conse- jC
quently no theory of unconscious cerebration, or performances j?
by the spirit of the medium, or of mistaking mesmeric |
influences for spiritual revelations, will be available in the ]|
present case to explain away the bearings of the evidence. \)
If no medium is present, no theory requiring the presence of |
a medium is tenable. Altogether, I feel in the happy m
position of one who is hauling up the sheet-anchor of modern i
Spiritualism for public observation, and a most solid and |
trustworthy sheet-anchor it is. The class of manifestations !
now to be considered can, I think, be accounted for only by the j
presence of the spirit, the whole spirit, and nothing but the j
spirit; the phenomena cut the ground from beneath the feet |
of those few of our friends who are inclined to adopt the j |
motto of “ Spiritualism without spirits.’' ||
The title of this address, “ Hauntings and Apparitions,” is I
intended to include all spiritual phenomena in which nobody i
recognised as a public or private spiritual medium takes any j
part, that is to say— !
1. All those cases in which private individuals once or j
twice in their lives see a real spirit through the action of :
some cause external to themselves, and not primarily from i (
internal physiological malady. In other words, those 11
numerous cases in which a spirit is seen sometimes by more j j
than one witness, in one place, at about the time that his ! j
body died at another place. j
2. The phenomena of haunted houses. The cases con- |
nected with haunting are not only legion, and faultlessly j
verified, but they can be explained only by the spiritual jj
hypothesis. When successive tenants live in a haunted j |
house, and all are disturbed alike, the “ unconscious-action- i
of-the-spirit-of-the-medium” theory is untenable, for no I
medium lives continuously on the premises; the residents j >
change, but the spiritual disturbances remain for years; and j
in a fair proportion of cases, though not in all, the personal {j
identity as a departed human being of the producer of the j j
sights and sounds, is as well established as the conditions of j j
communication between the two worlds permit. Certain i j j
other of these haunting phenomena are so impish in their j j
nature as to give fair scope for the speculation that they ! |
may be produced by spirits lower than those of men, but I j j
know of no direct evidence of the truth of this idea, and j
think that among savages, and some of the least cared for !
of this country, beings of similarly low intelligence may be |
found. Moreover, it is probable that we never come closely I
into contact with the actual intelligence, which is perhaps j |
limited in its completeness of expression by the difficulties j
besetting its attempts to produce any effects at all on the I
material plane. I
CLASS 1,—DEATH-BED APPARITIONS. j
These cases are so numerous, that it is scarcely possible to i <
bring up the subject in any mixed company without one of j
the listeners being able to tell of an instance which occurred 11
in his own family. On other occasions silence is kept from j
fear of the ridicule of the ignorant, showing that a false j > |
state of public opinion exercises a repressive influence on j j
revelation. j 11
I will now give a few examples, to show the nature of the j |
facts we have to consider. In some of the cases loopholes j |
will be found for the introduction of the theory that the seer ! | j
is a medium, and that at the death-moment some occult j j
influence is exerted upon his mind by the thoughts of the j j j
distant dying person, causing him to see an apparition. ! i
* A paper read last Monday night before the British National Association of Spiritualists. ^ *'
This perfectly fair argument, while admitting psychic action
at a distance, would weaken the evidence in favour of the
existence of departed spirits, but it will be seen, as we pro¬
ceed, that the objection is not applicable to all the cases of
death-bed apparitions, though in others it may fairly be
raised.
AN APPARITION SEEN BY LORD BROUGHAM.
I will first quote Lord Brougham’s narrative setting forth
how he in London saw the spirit of a friend, about the time
that that friend’s body died in India. He says :—
A most remarkable thing happened to me—so remarkable that
I must tell the story from the beginning. After I left the High
School, I went with G , my most intimate friend, to attend the
classes in the University. There was no divinity class, but we
frequently in our walks discussed and speculated upon many grave
subjects—among others, on the immortality of the soul, and on a
future state. This question, and the possibility, I will not say of
ghosts walking, but of the dead appearing to the living, were sub¬
jects of much speculation : and we actually committed the folly of
drawing up an agreement, written with our blood, to the effect
that whichever of us died the first should appear to the other, and
thus solve any doubts we had entertained of the “ life after
death.” After we had finished our classes at the college, G went
to India, having got an appointment there in the Civil Service. He
seldom wrote to me, and after the lapse of a few years I had almost
forgotten him; moreover, his family having little connection with
Edinburgh, I seldom saw or heard anything of them, or of him through
them, so that all the old schoolboy intimacy had died out, and I had
nearly forgotten his existence. I had taken, as I have said, a warm
bath, and while lying in it and enjoying the comfort of the heat, after the
late freezing I had undergone, I turned my head round, looking towards
the chair on which I had deposited my clothes, as I was about to get
out of the bath, On the chair sat G , looking calmly at me. How
I got out of the bath I know not, but on recovering my senses I found
myself sprawling on the floor. The apparition, or whatever it was,
that had taken the likeness of G , had disappeared. This vision
produced such a shock that I had no inclination to talk about it, or
to speak about it even to Stuart; but the impression it made upon
me was too vivid to be easily forgotten ; and so strongly was I affected
by it, that I have here written down the whole history, with the date,
] 9th December, and all the particulars, as they are now fresh before
me. No dbubt I had fallen asleep ; and that the appearance presented
so distinctlyto my eyes wasadream,! cannot foramoment doubt; yet for
years I had had no communication with G , nor had there been any¬
thing to recall him to my recollection; nothing had taken place during our
Swedish travels either connected with G or with India, or with
anything relating to him or to any member of his family. I recollected
quickly enough our old discussion and the bargain we had made. I
could not discharge from my mind the impression that G must
have died, and that his appearance to me was to be received by me as
a proof of a future state.
This was on December 19, 1799. In October, 1862, Ldrd
Brougham added as a postcript;—
I have just been copying out from my journal the account of this
strange dream : Certissima mortis imago ! And now to finish the story,
begun about sixty years since. Soon after my return to Edinburgh,
there arrived a letter from India, announcing G ’a death, and
stating that he had died on the 19th of December !
AN APPARITION SEEN BY LIEUT.-GENERAL FYTCHE.
Lieut.-General Albert Fytche, C.S.I., of Pyrga-park,
Havering-atte-Bower, records in his new book, Burma, Past
and Present (C. Kegan Paul and Co.: 1878), how he also is
one of the large number of witnesses who have seen the spirit
of a friend about the time that friend’s earthly body was
dying a long way off. He was at Maulmain at the time, and
his statement is—
I had an old schoolfellow, who was afterwards a college friend, with
whom I had lived in the closest intimacy. Years, however, passed
away without our seeing each other. One morning I had just got out
of bed, and was dressing myself, when suddenly my old friend entered
the room. I greeted him warmly: told him to call for a cup of tea in
the verandah, and promised to be with him immediately. I dressed
myself in haste, and went out into the verandah, but found no one there.
I could not believe my eyes. I called to the sentry, who was posted at
the front of the house, but he had seen no strange gentleman . . A
fortnight afterwards news arrived that he had died, six hundred miles
off, about the very time I saw him at Maulmain.
In this case also Lieut.-General Fytche may have been a
9 ,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 24, 1879.
medium who subjectively saw a spirit because of the action
of one mind upon another.
AN APPARITION SEEN FIVE HOURS AFTER THE DEATH OF THE BODY.
In the next case the u psychic action at a distance ” hypothe¬
sis begins to lose its hold. The body of the man had been dead
about five hours before the spirit was seen. Therefore, if the
thoughts of the dying man produced the effect, materialists
must invent and uphold a second hypothesis, namely, that a
man can think some five hours after his body is apparently
dead. The following narrative was furnished by one of the
Middlesex Magistrates, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, to The
Spiritualist of July 19th, 1878.
I had lately the rare chance to be told of an apparition seen by the
sister of a maid-servant in my house, at a time when it was still
unknown whether the person appearing was alive or dead. It was
afterwards found that the man died on the same day, a few hours before
his apparition was seen by his friend in this country. The important
point in a case of this kind is that it precludes the supposition that the
vision was a delusion of the imagination, the ready answer by which
stories of this kind, where the evidence cannot be impugned on other
grounds, are usually put aside.
On the 16th May last my daughter’s maid, a woman in whom we
have entire confidence, told me that one Saturday evening, about six
weeks past, she had met her sister in the street, and seeing her greatly
agitated, her sister explained that, about an hour before, she had been
on her knees scrubbing the floor, when she heard herself twice dis¬
tinctly called “Annie 1 Annie!” She raised her head, and saw a
great friend of hers, whom she supposed to be in India, gazing at her
through the window, looking very pale and haggard. She immediately
got up and, opening the door, ran round to the front, thinking to find
him at the window, but seeing no one there she took it for an apparition,
and was convinced that her friend was dead. He had been greatly
attached to her, and in the beginning of the year had urgently pressed
her to marry him, and, on her refusal, had taken service in India, and
gone to Madras. On the following Monday Annie got some one to go
to the mercantile house in the City which had sent her friend out to
India to inquire concerning him, and there she was informed that he
had been ill, and they were afraid that he would not be able to stand
the climate. She herself did not doubt that he was already dead.
Thus the matter stood when the story was told to me. I wrote it
down at the moment, and begged my informant to inquire again by-
and-by, and let me know the result. By the end of June it was known
that Annie’s friend had died suddenly on the evening of Saturday, the
30th March, the day noted by Annie as the date of the apparition. As
Madras is in longitude 80 deg., the time there would be five hours
and twenty minutes in advance of London time, so that the deceased
must have been dead about that time when his apparition was seen in
England.
It is remarkable that this was not the first experience of the kind
which had happened to Annie. Her husband, at the time of his death
in the spring of 1876, was in confinement in Hanwell. At five o’clock
on the morning of his death his wife was awoke by hearing herself
called, as in the present instance, “Annie! Annie!” She felt that
her husband wanted her for something, and immediately got up, and as
soon as she could went off to Hanwell, where she found that he "had
died at the moment she heard herself called, as mentioned in an account
which I sent to The Spiritualist of August 31, 1877.
Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London.
AN APPARITION SEEN BY DR. KENNETH MACKENZIE.
The next piece of testimony shows that the second theory
which the objector has been forced to adopt must be
further stretched to cover days instead of hours. A spirit was
once seen by Dr. K. R. H. Mackenzie, of Hounslow, a well-
known member of the Anthropological Institute, who read a
paper before this Association in these rooms last session.
The particulars are given by Mr. Newton Crosland, in his
book on Apparitions (Triibner, 1873), as follows :—
On the 30th January, 1856, at the early age of thirty, died the Rev.
Theodore Alois Buckley, formerly one of the chaplains of Christ
Church, Oxford. He was a man of extraordinary ability ; his life was
unfortunate, and his death sad. When he was alive and well at Oxford,
about the year 1850, conversing on the subject of ghosts one day with a
mutual friend, Mr. Kenneth R. H. Mackenzie, the two friends entered
into a compact that whoever departed this life first should, if permitted,
visit the other as an apparition ; and the signal of communication was
arranged to be the placing of a hand on the brow of the survivor. On
the night of the 2nd of February, about twelve or half-past twelve
o’clock, Mr. Mackenzie was lying in bed watching the candle expiring,
preparing his mind for sleep, and not thinking of his departed friend,
when he felt placed over one eye and his forehead a cool, damp hand.
On looking up he saw Buckley in his ordinary apparel, and with his
portfolio under his arm, as in life, standing at the bedside. The figure,
as soon as it was recognised, retreated to the window, and after
remaining plainly in sight for about a minute, disappeared.
Such are fair average specimens of the nature of a consider¬
able number of records of such phenomena. In all of them the
antecedent impulse resulting in consciousness of spirit pre¬
sence was not due to the physiological condition of the
observer, but as I think I can show, to the intense desire, in
most cases, if not in all, of the departed or departing friend
to communicate.
APPARITIONS SIMULTANEOUSLY SEEN BY SEVERAL PERSONS.
In further support of the argument that appearances of
this class are not primarily due to the mediumship or physio¬
logical condition of the observer, more cases will now be
given, in which the spirit of the dying person was seen
simultaneously by more than one witness at the same
time.
The Rev. F. Gr. Lee, Yicar of Lambeth, in his book,
Glimpses of the Supernatural (King and Co.), quotes the
following document:—
May 26, 1876.
A lady and her husband (who held a position of some distinction in
India) were returning home (a.d. 1854), after an absence of four years,
to join a family of young children, when the former was seized in Egypt
with an illness of a most alarming character, and though carefully
tended by an English physician, and nursed with the greatest care, grew
so weak" that little or no hope of her recovery existed. With that
true kindness which is sometimes withheld by those about a dying bed,
she was properly and plainly informed of her dangerous state, and
bidden to prepare for the worst. Of a devout, pious, and reverential
mind, she is reported to have made a careful preparation for the latter
end. The only point which seemed to disturb her mind after the
delirium of fever had passed away was a deep-seated desire to see her
absent children once again, which she frequently expressed to those who
attended upon her.- Day after day, for more than a week, she gave
utterance to her longings and prayers, remarking that she would die
happily if only this one wish could be gratified.
On the morning of the day of her departure hence she fell into a long
and heavy sleep, from which her attendants found it difficult to arouse
her. During the whole period of it she lay perfectly tranquil. Soon
after noon, however, she suddenly awoke, saying, “ I have seen them all;
I have seen them all. God be praised, for Jesus Christ’s sake,” and then
slept again. Towards evening, in perfect peace, and with many devout
exclamations, she calmly yielded up her spirit to God who gave it. Her
body was brought to England and interred in the family burying-place.
The most remarkable part of this incident remains to be told. The
children of the dying lady were being educated at Torquay under the
supervision of a friend of the family. At the very time when their
mother thus slept they were confined to the house where they lived by a
severe storm of thunder and lightning. Two apartments on one floor,
perfectly distinct, were then occupied by them as play and recreation
rooms. All were then gathered together. No one of the children was
absent. They were amusing themselves with games in company of a
nursemaid who had never seen their parents. All of a sudden their
mother, as she usually appeared, entered the larger room of the two,
pausing, looked for some moments at each and smiled, passed into the
next room, and then vanished away. Three of the elder children recog¬
nised her at once, but were greatly disturbed and impressed at her ap¬
pearance, silence, and manner. The younger and nursemaid, each and
all, saw a lady in white come into the smaller room, and then slowly
glide by and fade away.
The date of this occurrence, Sept. 10, 1854, was carefully noted, and
it was afterwards found that the two events above recorded happened
almost contemporaneously. A record of the event was committed to
paper, and transcribed on a fly-leaf of the family Bible, from which the
above account was taken and given to the editor of this book in the
autumn of 1871 by a relation of the lady in question, who is well
acquainted with the fact of her spectral appearance at Torquay, and
has vouched for the truth of it in the most distinct and formal manner.
The narrative of the spectral appearance of a lady at Torquay, for¬
warded to Dr. F. G. Lee at his special request, is copied from and com¬
pared with that in the family Bible of H. A. T. Baillie-Hamilton, by
the undersigned. C. Margaret Balfour.
Mary Baillie-Hamilton.
( Witness) J. R. Grant.
Princes-street, Edinburgh, Oct. 7, 1871.
In this case, then, the spirit was unexpectedly seen by five
persons at once, and recognised by three of them.
In the next instance, the spirit of a dying woman was seen
by three of her children at the same time. The following
document was forwarded to Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, of 14,
Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London, by Mrs.
Backhouse, wife of Mr. E. Backhouse, member of Parlia¬
ment for Darlington; it was communicated to the Psycho¬
logical Society by Mr. Wedgwood, in April, 1876, and read to
the Society early in the following month:—
In the early part of the last century, a member of the Society of
Friends, living at Settle, in Craven, had to take a journey to the
borders of Scotland. She left her family under the care of a relation,
who, instead of sending frequent letters in those days of slow and
expensive communication between distant places, engaged to keep a
minute journal, to be transmitted to the mother at any convenient
opportunity, of all that concerned her three little children, aged seven,
six, and four. After an absence of three weeks, when on her homeward
way, she was seized with illness at Cockermouth, and died in a few
days, even before the husband at Settle could hear by post of the com¬
mencement of her illness. The season was winter, when in the moun¬
tainous border-land between the counties the conveyance of letters by
Jan. 24, ] 879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
39
postmen on foot was an especially lengthened and difficult process, j j!
The friends at whose house the event occurred, seeing the hopeless j j;
nature of the attack, made notes of every circumstance attending the 11
last hours of the dying wife and mother, for the satisfaction of her j [ |
family, so that the accuracy of the several statements as to time as well ! j j
as facts was beyond the doubtfulness of mere memory, or of any even I (j
unconscious attempt to bring them into agreement with each other. ) i
One morning between seven and eight o’clock, on the relation at Settle ] j i
going into the sleeping-room of the three children, she found them all
sitting up in their beds in great excitement and delight, crying out, ) I
“ Mamma has been here ! Mamma has been here !” And the little | |
one said, “ She called, 4 Come, Esther !’ ” Nothing could make them j | i
doubt the fact, intensely visible as it was to each of them ; and it was {i
carefully noted down to entertain the mother on her speedily expected |
return to her home. That same morning, as she lay on her dying (|
bed at Cockermouth, to those who were watching her tenderly / j
and listening for her latest breath, she said, “ I should be ready ( !
to go if I could but see my children.” She then closed her eyes, they j i
thought to reopen them no more, but after ten minutes of perfect still- | j
ness she looked up brightly and said, “ I am ready now, I have been ] J j
with my children,” and then at once peacefully passed away. When j j
the notes taken at the two places were compared, the day, hour, and j ( |
minute were the same. One of the three children was my grandmother, 11 i
Sarah Birkbeck (daughter of William Birkbeck, banker, of Settle), i
afterwards wife of Dr. Fell, of Ulverstone, from whom I had the above, i i |
almost literally as I have repeated it. The elder was Morris Birkbeck, j i j
afterwards of Guildford. Both these lived to old age, and retained to j j
the last so solemn and reverential a remembrance of the circumstance j
that they rarely would speak of it, or permit any allusion to it, lest it j
should be treated with doubt or levity. Esther, the youngest of the J |
three, died soon after. Her brother and sister only heard the child say i j
that her mother called her, but could not speak with any certainty of (
having themselves heard the words, nor did they seem sensible of any j I
communication from her, but simply of her standing there and looking 1 j |
on them. My grandmother and her brother were both persons remark- ( j
able for strong matter-of-fact, rather than imaginative, minds, and to j j
whom it was especially difficult to accept anything on faith, or merely j j I
hearsay evidence, and who by nature would be disposed to reject what- j j
ever seemed beyond the region of reason or of common experience; but j
their early impression of the supernatural made them not superstitious, 1 i
but devout believers in the truths of Divine revelation, and in the i j
mysteries of the soul’s relation to the unseen and spiritual world. | !
S. H. Fox. i !
Treban, near Falmouth, 1872. J
At the time of the publication of the preceding narrative |
in T/ie Spiritualist of May 12th, 1876, Mr. Wedgwood wrote i
to that journal:—
I may add that the interest of the foregoing narrative is greatly en¬
hanced by comparison with the story of Mary Goffe, first published j
by Baxter, and better known from the Footfalls on the Boundary of ! (|
Another World, by It. Dale Owen. In June, 1691, Mary Goffe lay | i
dying at her father’s house, at Mailing, about nine miles from j I j
Rochester, where she had left her two little children. When she
felt herself near her end, she expressed a vehement desire to go and j 11
die with her children, and begged her husband to hire a horse for that ! 11
purpose. When told that she could not get out of bed, nor sit on a j j
horse, she begged them to try. “ If I cannot sit,” said she, “ I will lie | I
all along upon the horse, for I must go to see my poor babes.” Between j i
one and two in the morning she fell into a trance: her eyes were open, ! j {
her jaw fallen. The nurse who sat up with her doubted whether she | j
were alive or dead. The next morning she told her mother that she | j j
had been at home with her children. l( That is impossible,” said her j j
mother, “ for you have been in bed all the while.” 44 Yes,” replied the 11 i
other, “ but I was with them last night when I was asleep.”
The same night, a little before two, the nurse at Rochester saw the (
likeness of Mary Goffe come out of the next chamber (in which the j j
eldest child slept), and stand by her bedside for a quarter of an hour, i |
Her eyes moved, and her mouth went, but she said nothing. The nurse ! j
sat up in bed and looked steadfastly on the apparition, and finally adjured \ j
it to say who it was. It went away, and the nurse slipped on her j j
clothes and followed, and not seeing what became of it, became i j
grievously affrighted, and walked about upon the wharf for some hours, j | j
until at six o’clock she was taken into a neighbour’s house, to whom she j J j
related all that had happened, and confidently affirmed,44 If ever I saw | j
her in all my life, I »aw her this night.”
In the course of the morning the neighbour was sent for to Mailing, j j i
where she found Mrs. Goffe dying. The mother told her how much her j j j
daughter had longed to see her children, and said she had seen them,
which brought to the woman’s mind what the nurse had told her at ]
Rochester, which till then she had regarded as the dream of a distem¬
pered fancy.
The clergyman who writes the account to Baxter had it immediately 1
after the funeral, from Mrs. Goffe’s father, and within a week or two j
after he examined everybody concerned in the narrative—the sick nurse
who sat up with her, the children’s nurse at Rochester, the neighbour j
who took her in, and Mrs. Goffe’s mother.
In this case, so little had the physiological or mental con- i
dition of the children to do with the presence of the appari¬
tion, that they were fast asleep and knew nothing about it,
whilst a nurse in no way interested in the spirit was the
only person aware of the visit. The driving power, in fact, at
the root of most of these appearances is the love of the j
spirit for those visited, love so strong that it bursts the I
boundaries of time and space, and cannot even be extin¬
guished by the grave. The general tendency of the com¬
munications received at spirit circles has always pointed in
this direction. Unfortunately, there are also examples in
connection with hauntings and apparitions, in which hate
has been the ruling power prompting the return of the
spirit.
Examples such as I have given of death-bed apparitions
might be largely multiplied, but enough have been brought
forward to serve my purpose. There seems to be no escape
from the conclusion that in these cases the state of mental
health of the observer is not the primary cause of an appari¬
tion having been seen1. Because the spirit is sometimes
seen by several persons at once. 2. Because the spirit,
through its dying earthly body, sometimes tells its friends
that it has seen its loved ones at a distance. 3. Because
disinterested third persons, connected neither by thought,
nor by affection, nor by blood with the dying person, some¬
times see the apparition when it makes itself visible to its
friends. Altogether, the evidence proves that the living
spirit of man can act apart from the earthly body.
CLASS IL—HAUNTINGS.
The time is already far advanced, wherefore it is not possible
to-night to follow up the subject of hauntings so fully as I
have done that of apparitions of the dying; but I will do so
in a book I intend to bring out on these subjects, and
which will be before the public in a few weeks’ time, under
the title of Spirits Without a Medium. This, as well as the
forthcoming new book on Spirit Identity, by “ M.A. (Oxon.),”
will, I hope, serve to convince unprejudiced readers that a
portion of the phenomena of Spiritualism are produced by
identifiable human beings who have crossed the river of
death. I wish the friends who are listening to me now, and
those who will read these words hereafter, to send me quickly
for publication in the book (which will be in the printer’s
hands in two or three weeks’ time), well authenticated cases
of apparitions and hauntings. 1 do not want secondary
evidence where the testimony of the actual witness is
obtainable, and I wish for plain, straightforward narratives,
in which full names, addresses, and dates are given, instead
of timid statements, full of initials, blanks, and dashes,
where actual names should be inserted. Narratives of events
not subjected to public criticism in the locality to which they
belong, in order that readers may know how the statements
are regarded by various minds from different points of view,
are not so well established as those which do not escape
examination by individuals who know both the persons and
the place. Among some of the old Scotch families there
are now plenty of haunted houses and castles ; the details
of cases have sometimes reached me in a private way, but I
hope that the particulars of some of the hauntings will be
sent me fully authenticated for publication.
Well proved cases of haunted houses exist by scores.
This evening I can select but one in the direction of proving
that the phenomena are sometimes produced by departed
human beings. The witness is a capital one; he is so
thoroughly prejudiced against Spiritualism that he is forced to
give his facts in the teeth of his convictions. His name is
the familiar one of Mr. W. Winwood Reade, author of The
Martyrdom of Man, and the following words of his show
his bias against the truths he has to tell:—
This story will interest children and the vulgar, as all ghost stories
do. To them, of course, I have nothing to say.
But to those who are studying the science of the spirit-world, I wish
to point out the futility of their investigations. Purposeless in them¬
selves—for they can pave the way to no system—they are perilous by
reason of their action on the brain. You waste your precious essence
of thought, and will, and electricity, that you may touch ethereal
rubbish.
A sentry is frightened, a boy’s ear is pulled, plates are clashed,
furniture moves. This is mysterious, but it is far from being sublime.
These glimpses are degrading, disheartening, and would soon prove
deleterious. Men would not be likely to lead better or more careful
lives if your researches should prove (that which alone they can hope
to prove) that futurity has its comic element.
Mr. Winwood Reade’s description of the haunted house is
printed in his book on Savage Africa. He says:—
Macarthy's Island, in the River Gambia, is situated about a hundred
and eighty miles from the sea. It is six miles long, by two broad.
40
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 24, 1870.
There are two factories there, a village of liberated Africans, and a i (
garrison of forty men, one subaltern, and two surgeons. 11
In the dry season this island presents an agreeable aspect, and is not | ]
unhealthy. But before the rains set in, the two hot months (May and ; (
June) occur. I was there in January, and although I had passed days j!
under the line in an open boat without awning or umbrella, it was there j ]
that I suffered from heat for the first time. j i
What the heat of the hot months may be I cannot understand. A j i
surgeon who had travelled a great deal, told me that it possessed a : j
close stifling character which the thermometer could not express, and j |
that it was of a different kind from those which he had experienced in i i
Australia and the two Indies. i j
It must be remembered, too, that they have not the IC doctor,” as the i |
sea breeze has been well called. It is this sea breeze which, blowing i (
at noon and eve, preserves the vigour and the lives of the residents j!
upon the coast. . I <
At the commencement of the rainy season of 1860, Mr. Beale, a staff | (
assistant-surgeon, was seized with malarious fever. The Dover arrived |)
soon afterwards, bringing a Mr. Campbell to relieve him. The relief ] (
came too late. Mr. Beale was taken on board the Dover, shook hands ] (
with the captain on deck, went below, and expired almost immediately, j)
Mr. Trestrail, his colleague, sat down to write out the case. It is j)
still preserved in the medical report-book at the surgeons’ quarters, j j
Towards the end the handwriting changes its character, becomes j)
uneven, and sometimes scarcely legible. A few hours afterwards Tres- i )
trail was a corpse. The two surgeons were buried together. j (
Mr. Campbell wrote out a report of Mr. Trestrail’s case. He slept j)
alone in the surgeons’ quarters, in the same bed in which the two j)
others had died. j (
A palisade was being erected around their grave. |)
Mr. Savage is a mulatto trader on the island. A few days after- j)
wards Campbell came to him and asked him to give him a bed. j (
Savage complied with his request. j j
“ Don’t you like your quarters 1 ” he said. |)
“No,” replied Campbell, f 1 have seen Beale. And Savage,” he I (
added, .11 shall never see my poor wife and children any more.” /
As the palisade round the grave was finished Dr. Campbell also J (
died. He was buried outside it. No importance was attached to his ! (
words, I have seen Beale. It was supposed at the time that it was j)
merely a dream of which he had spoken. The words themselves would j (j
have been quite forgotten, had it not been for that which afterwards j) |
occurred. i) i
The commandant’s quarters, a detached building, stands about ; (i
fifteen yards from the surgeons’ quarters, also a detached building. A n|
sentry is stationed over each. Captain Wilcox and Dr. Bradshaw j j I
were sitting one evening in the piazza of the commandant’s quarters, j (j
when they heard a shriek from the direction of the other building. A (I
few moments afterwards a soldier, livid with fright, and without his j) j
musket, rushed into the piazza. Captain Wilcox, supposing that he !(|
was drunk, put him under arrest.
The next morning, being examined, he declared that while on guard j )j
at the surgeons’ quarters a gentleman dressed in black had come j (i
towards him. He had never seen him before. He challenged him, n
and received no answer. The gentleman continued till he was close to j) j
him. He (the sentry) threatened to run him through if he did not j|
answer the challenge. Receiving no answer, he thrust, and saw the ) j
bayonet pass through the body. The figure gibbered at him, and jh
turned away. It was then that he had shrieked, dropped his musket, | (j
and ran away. Examined by Dr. Bradshaw, he described the figure j)!
closely; the face, height, and dress tallied precisely with those of Dr. j (i
Beale, whom the sentinel had never seen. j v
Drs. Bradshaw and Hind slept in the building in separate rooms, j /1
They heard noises, the cause of which they did not understand, but to | (|
which they paid little attention at the time.
Doctors Macarthy and Fox came up. They heard nothing. Dr. ji
Macarthy remained there a month, and during that month he had a u
severe fever. He went to Bathurst, and returned afterwards in com- (
pany with Dr. Duggan. Both of them wTere in good health at the time, i (!
Neither of them had heard the ghost story. They slept each in an end (i
room (there were three en suite), and Dr. Duggan’s servant, a boy of ) i
about sixteen, in the centre one. )i
Dr. Macarthy (fiom whom I received these particulars) now heard (i
peculiar noises in the night. In the piazza or passage outside there j; |
was a table, on which they placed their tea things after they had done j
with them. He would hear the cups and saucers clashed together, and ! \ I
the plates, as it seemed to him, dashed forcibly to the ground. Several ; i
times he went out in the morning, expecting to find everything broken; )!
but in no instance had the position of the plates, cups, or saucers been ) i
altered in the least. He ascribed these noises to some mischievous ;!
fellow who had climbed into the piazza without having been observed (;
by the sentry below. (j
He also heard noises in the middle room as if heavy pieces of furni- )!
ture were being moved about. ) j
And often all night long he would be annoyed with a pattering j |
sound upon the floor all round his bed. He thought at first that these ) i
were bats which had fallen on the floor, and which had been unable to | (\
rise. But he could never find them in the morning. Then he sup- I \ j
posed that they were mice. |; j
One night, instead of going to bed, he kept his candle alight and sat j) j
on a chair, with a stick across his knee, waiting for these mice to come | (j
out. | j |
He heard a sound at the farther end of the room. It was like that I (j
of a man walking cautiously on tiptoe. The sound came towards him. | J
He strained his eyes, but he could see nothing. Then the footsteps IJl
passed before him, close to him; and he could see nothing. j j I
Doctors are essentially materialists. Dr. Macarthy knew that the iji
strangest sights and sounds can spring from a disordered stoipach or a [}(
checked secretion. But when he mentioned his hallucination to Dr.
Duggan, and when Duggan replied that he had been troubled in the
same manner, they became perplexed. Still it did not occur to them
that these sounds were supernatural. The mind of man is averse to
believe that which it cannot grasp. No one seriously describes
a phenomenon of this kind if he can account for it in any natural
manner.
In the course of conversation they happened to speak to Savage
about it. He replied as if it was a commonplace matter. “ Oh,
don’t you know that the house is haunted ? ” and related the affair of
the sentry.
On returning to their quarters Dr. Duggan observed that his boy
was looking ill. He asked him what was the matter with him. The
boy said he did not know, but perhaps sleeping in the open air had
made him sick.
On being asked what he meant, the boy replied, with some
reluctance, that he had gone to sleep on the flat roof of the house,
because a tall man in white used to come and wake him up, so that he
could get no rest. This boy I afterwards examined myself. He told
me that it came and pulled him by the ear, and said, “ Wake, wake.”
When he awoke he could see something white moving off in a manner
which he said was not walking, nor running, nor flying, but something
different from what he had ever seen.
I offered to give him five shillings (which to him would be a large
sum) if he would sleep there that night; even offering to keep him
company. He looked frightened, and refused.
Doctors Macarthy and Duggan after that slept in the same room.
And now here comes the part of this story which is so extraordinary
—which is, I believe, unparalleled among instances of its kind.
These two men, materialists by education, lying broad awake, with
a light burning in the room, would both hear those noises, and would
call each other’s attention to them at the time; the heavy bodies moved
in the centre room, the rattling of plates in the piazza, and the light
tiptoe footsteps passing between both their beds.
What possible escape is there from the conclusion that Dr.
Beale’s spirit produced the above effects ? Had his body
been dying in England at the time, he might have told those
around his bed that he had seen his friends in Macarthy’s
Island. The only difference is that in Dr. Beale’s case the
spirit appeared long after the death of the body.
There is a discrepancy in Mr. Reade’s narrative, which in
one place says that Dr. Beale died on board the Dover, and
in another in the surgeons’ quarters on land.
The uncompromising materialist, when terribly hard
driven by multitudes of such facts as I have given this
evening, will try to separate all these phenomena from those
of mediumship. But the commonest feature of hauntings
is the evolution of raps governed by intelligence. In my
book, I mean to quote the little known documentary evidence
that the house at Hydesville was haunted long before the
Fox family took it; thus the phenomena which now follow
Katie Fox (Mrs. Jencken) everywhere in London, began in
a haunted house in America before she went to live in it.
TWO CLASSES OF APPARITIONS,
I think that there are two classes of apparitions; that
some of the appearances are objective, and can be seen by
everybody present, and that others are subjective, yet some¬
times produced by individualised spirit influence acting upon
a mesmeric sensitive.
Except in the case of strong hauntings, the ability of a
spirit to make its presence known is much a question of
relative will-power. When all is quiet, when the observer
is in a negative state of mind, with his nerves unstrung ;
when the distant church-bell tolling the midnight hour
increases the feeling of eerieness, then is the time that a
spirit with strong will-power is sometimes able to appear.
This negative state of mind is thus set forth with all the
power of genius in Congreve’s Mourning Bride:—
Almeria.
It was a fancy’d noise ; for all is hushed.
Leonora.
It bore the accents of a human voice.
Almeria.
It was thy fear, or else some transient wind,
Whistling through hollows of this vaulted aisle:
We’Jl listen 
Leonora.
Hark!
Almerta.
No, all is hushed and still as death.-—’Tis dreadful!
How reverend is the face of this tall pile,
Whose ancient pillars rear their marble heads,
To bear aloft its arched and ponderous roof,
By its own weight made steadfast and immovable—
Looking tranquillity ! It strikes an awe
Jan. 24, 1879.
41
THE SPIRITUALIST.
And terror on my aching sight; the tombs i)
And monumental caves of death look cold, j (
And shoot a chillness to my trembling heart. j i
Give me thy hand, and let me hear thy voice: i)
Nay, quickly speak to me, and let me hear j (
Thy voice—my own affrights me with its echoes. i)
Let this state of mind be carried one step farther, and j /
irruptions from the world of spirits begin. We read in the j)
Book of Job ;— j
In thoughts from the visions of the night, when deep sleep falleth on i j
men, fear came upon me and trembling, which made all my bones to j j
shake. Then a spirit passed before my face; the hair of my flesh stood I
up. It stood still, but I could not discern the form thereof: an image ! <
was before mine eyes ; there was silence, and I heard a voice, saying, | j
“Shall mortal man be more just than God? Shall a man be more ji
pure than his Maker ?” j1
This, then, is the state of mind in which irruptions from j'
the world of spirits are imminent, and it is often the case, I
think, that what the spirit thinks the medium sees. This
idea, perhaps, solves the perplexing question why the victim
sometimes haunts the scene of a murder for years, and not
the criminal. If the last moments of the victim are in the j
mind of the criminal spirit, the latter may alone be present, |
yet the former alone be seen. The principle is illustrated |
in the following paragraph from the Religio-Philosophical |
Journal (Chicago) of Aug. 17th, 1878:—
The following psychological incident, which was told to me by a j
gentleman of undoubted veracity, may prove of interest to those of your
readers who are studying the occult phases of nervous phenomena, j
The narrator, a man of fine nervous organisation, was taking his after- j
noon siesta; his daughter, a young lady of seventeen, sitting by his
side, with her hand in his, and reading. As he passed from the wakeful i
state into the one of semi-slumber, he saw, or seemed to see, appear at I
the foot of his bed a tall man, with a sorrowful expression upon his
face, who, bending down tenderly, lifted up a coffin and disappeared.
He was so disturbed by the vision that, after tossing restlessly for a
few moments, he opened his eyes and said—“ Daughter, I believe I
cannot sleep to-day, and will get up.’’ Looking up from her book, in j
which she was evidently deeply absorbed, she said—“ Papa, this is a j
strange book I am reading.” “What is it?” said he. “ The Life of \
' Marie Antoinette,” she replied, and then read from the pages before her j
a recital of the exact incident that had just constituted his dream.— j
Louisville Medical News.
I should like to say much about the religious influence j
upon civilised and scientific thought, of the rolling open of j
the gateways of the eternal world by the phenomena of j
modern Spiritualism, but will conclude by expressing my j
full conviction of the truth of the words recently spoken here |
by Mrs. Hallock, that there is a spirit world, and that it is j
full of spirits.
Arduous Undertakings.—The Graphic of last week prints the fol- i
lowing paragraph, but is in error in supposing that Mrs. Weldon was
actually ever incarcerated in an asylum :—“ On Tuesday, the irrepres- j
sible Mrs. Weldon again addressed a large audience in St. James’s j
Hall, her subject being the thrice-told tale of her wrongful incarcera¬
tion in a lunatic asylum, and her ineffectual attempts to obtain legal
redress. She stated that, although Parliament never did anything
unless Compelled, she felt sure that the Lunacy Laws would be altered
during the coming Session. Her agitation for their reform had so
frightened Dr. Winslow, that he was attempting to get up an asso¬
ciation for the mutual protection of asylum keepers. She also was
promoting a society, to consist entirely of ladies—for gentlemen were
apt to get in the way—the objects of which would be to put a stop
to the system of legal robbery and intrigue successfully practised in
our Courts of Law, and establish for every man or woman the right
of speaking to magistrates, either themselves or through any person
they may appoint, without being told that they were taking up the
time of the Court, or being advised to consult a solicitor, who, in his
turn, has to consult counsel, who then comes into Court without
having read his brief. The president and vice-president of this
Society would also endeavour to direct attention to the defects and
abuses of the Lunacy, Marriage, Divorce, and Poor Laws, the verdicts
of juries, the unequal sentences of judges, the brutal language per¬
mitted to counsel, the newspaper police reports, the inaccuracy of the
Press in general,the hushing up of some cases, and the undue prominence
given to, and exaggerated expenditure wasted on, others. Mrs. Weldon
then went on to read a letter addressed to Mr. H. S. Milman, Assistant
Inclosure Commissioner, in which she denounced our laws as ‘ unin¬
telligible, mysterious, and unjust.’ Our Law Courts were veritable
Sloughs of Despond, tenanted by all manner of greedy, crawling vermin,
who lived on their corruption. The legal system made our lawyers,
our accountants, and our bubble company schemes, classed together,
villains of the deepest dye, and our lawyers’ clerks, at whose mercy we
all are, the scum of the earth, the very dregs of society. The uncer¬
tainty of the law was demonstrated by the acquittal of Sir Capel Fitz¬
gerald ; the committal of Davis for five years, since commuted to one
year, on a charge of stealing about £4 12s.; and the committal of
Menier for six months for a robbery of over £1,000.”
©ormpontience.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.']  
MADAME BLAVATSKY AND COL. OLCOTT IN ENGLAND.
Sir,—It may interest some of your readers to learn that Madame
H. P. Blavatsky and Col. Olcott have been paying a brief visit to this
country on their way from the United States to India. They arrived
on the 3rd instant, and were the guests of Dr. and Mrs. Billing, at
Norwood, until Friday last, the 17th, when they left for India, direct
from Liverpool. Their stay was prolonged beyond their original inten¬
tion at the desire of the recently formed British branch of the Theo-
sophical Society of the Arya Samaj ; and I think all the members who
had the privilege of meeting them will acknowledge the advantage that
has been derived from their presence and instructions. In New York
Madame Blavatsky had become a celebrated character. In concert
with Colonel Olcott she had brought together a large number of earnest
students of psychology and spiritual science, including some highly
gifted and famous persons. The Theosophical Society there is esta¬
blished on a firm and permanent footing. Its founders, especially the
Russian stranger, had in its early days to encounter the ridicule of the
! public press, the obloquy of Spiritualists, and the slanders of certain
mediums whose “ divine powers ” she laughed at, and whose frequent
rogueries she mercilessly exposed. Indeed, it seemed likely at one
time that the mediumistic fraternity, with its enthusiastic following,
would make common cause against the most formidable critic whom its
pretensions had ever encountered. But Madame Blavatsky’s practical
| acquaintance with the phenomena of Spiritualism made her the friend
of honest and genuine mediums ; and as agent of the Committee of the
i St. Petersburg University,*she was instrjimental in sending to Europe
Dr. Slade, whose career there, notwithstanding the abominable treat¬
ment he sustained in this country, has done so much to promote public
and scientific investigation. And Madame Blavatsky has no warmer
friends and admirers than some well-known private mediums. Among
them I may mention her late hostess, Mrs. Billing (formerly
Mrs. Hollis), whom she regards as one of the greatest depositaries
of these powers that America has produced—an opinion thoroughly
justified by what, in common with other guests, I have been
privileged to witness at the interesting seances which sometimes con¬
cluded our Norwood evenings. The publication of Isis Unveiled
attracted to the Theosophical Society a host of inquirers, and was the
occasion of making the authoress favourably known to a large section of
American society. And when she and Col. Olcott left New York last
month, they were the theme of a number of respectful and compli-
i mentary notices in the newspapers, and were accompanied by the regrets
j of a multitude of private friends. That Madame Blavatsky is a person
I of extraordinary powers, no one who has been frequently in her society
can;doubt. But she is intent on higher objects than display, which she
contemptuously designates “ psychological tricks.’’ With some of
these, however, she occasionally indulged the guests at Dr. Billing’s
hospitable house, where all of us were made welcome by day and night.
I will not expatiate on wonders which, by Spiritualists who do not
believe in the mighty powers attainable by the cultivation of the will,
would certainly be attributed to mediumistic gifts that Madame
Blavatsky utterly disclaims, or rather repudiates. I will only mention
the voluntary production of the “ spirit rap ” in bright light, and with
a profane disregard of all the “ conditions ” of the circle. She amused
herself and us by producing this in any number desired—on a chair, a
table, or on our heads—ascribing it entirely to electricity directed by
her own will. With the medium the will is unconscious; it is not
| distinct volition—and that is all the difference. But, on the whole, she
discouraged our appetite for phenomena, exhorting us rather to a study
I of the principles upon which these apparent marvels are shown to be in
entire accordance with natural laws. And even this pursuit seemed
! subordinate in her mind to the great social, moral, and spiritual objects
of the Arya Samaj, to which she is entirely devoted. “ The Brother¬
hood of Humanity ” is with her and Colonel Olcott no mere senti-
! mental phrase or visionary aspiration. To break down all the barriers
of race and religion between man and man by the eradication of pre¬
judice, and to emancipate the mind alike from its theological and
materialistic trammels, are the main objects of the great Indian society,
j of which she has been so active and efficient an agent in the West. No
! greater undertaking, and none with more hard fighting before it, has
i ever been attempted. In every age and country exemption from super¬
stition and from popular misconceptions of religion has been the
; privilege of a cultured and reticent few. And in all hut the higher
| class of minds the emancipation from theology has simply meant the
| loss of faith in the unseen. The masses of the people, alike in East
and West, are brought up as passive recipients of the degenerate beliefs
I by which the world is bitterly divided. It is believed that all the
popular religions are corrupt offshoots of a primitive truth, and that
this truth is to be found in a right interpretation and comprehension of
| the Yedic writings. The work of the Arya Samaj, as a public exoteric
I body, is educational and missionary. It has already established schools
| over a great part of India, in which are taught the purest devotion and
morality, and which are proving more efficacious against the wretched
idolatry of the people than all the attempts of Western zeal to substi¬
tute conceptions of religion which are fast losing their hold over our¬
selves. The answer of the Arya Sam&j (which must not be confounded
with the Brahmo Samaj) to these attempts is to be seen in the founda-
j tion of its Western branches, as theosophical societies, already estab¬
lished in several countries. The members of these, for their own edifi¬
cation, will devote themselves to the study of religion and of the laws of
, . I nature, and by so doing will second the tendencies of modern science,
| (j research, and speculation, to uproot the fallacies that are conserved by
‘'1 Church organisations. Convinced that religious truth is the surest and
42
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 24, 1879.
soundest basis of all human development, the Arya Samaj has no j j
political sympathies or designs, as has been absurdly suggested by an j (
English opponent. Its founder and chief in India is a profound scholar j)
and eloquent expositor of doctrines, which even to the most accom- j (
plished Orientalists of the West are enveloped in much doubt and i |:
obscurity. It is not, of course, to be supposed that the Theosophical j jj-
societies are composed of persons equally competent in this respect, or, | j
on the other hand, who have blindly embraced what would be to most j j
of them an unknown religion. But we believe, as we are taught, that ;)
knowledge is not a mere result of research or speculation, but is in- ] (
separably connected with action. There are in our societies sections n
and degrees in which the obligations and attainments differ greatly. |) j
We have evidence that the highest development of spiritual life in the ! (j
most secret and esoteric lodges of the parent fraternity is marked | (j
by the recovery of that knowledge of and power over the forces |) j
of nature—blind and intelligent—which Cabalists and Gnostics ! (j
tell us are the original prerogatives of man. Few of us, probably, will 1 \ j
reach these heights. But all who do not dishonour the profession of j) j
theosophy by negligence or self-indulgence may hope to attain some j <!
knowledge of the Divine-human spirit, its nature, and powers. The | j) |
doors of our Society are open to all who are in sympathy with the public i) j
objects of the Arya Samdj, and who wish in all sincerity and earnest- m
ness to avail themselves of the instructions and help in occult researches |) j
which we expect to receive. But we have no phenomenal wonders to j) j
promise, and with the exception of such mediums as we have among us, | j j
are not at all distinguished from the most commonplace people by the i j j
possession of occult powers. Nevertheless, as I have had many ques- j) j
tions addressed to me from time to time on the subject, it is possible i j I
that this short and necessarily imperfect account of our objects, so far as i) j
they are at present developed, may be acceptable. And it seemed ap- j) j
propriate to introduce it into a notice of the short visit which we have j (I
had from our friends Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott. I should j i j
add that they both felt much regret that the time at their disposal did ])
not permit them to make any visits of compliment, or to seek any j <
acquaintances outside the circle of the Theosophical Society. One of j J
Madame Blavatsky’s objects in visiting London was to consult certain I)
books and manuscripts at the British Museum, where most of the time 11
she could spare from Norwood was passed. Two other members of the j S
New York Society accompany them to India, with the intention of per- j ) I
manently residing there. Colonel Olcott goes as a Commissioner from j 11
the Government of the'United States to report upon the state of com- j | j
merce and the means of promoting intercourse for trade purposes |) 1
between the two countries. Madame Blavatsky will be the Indian cor- | s
respondent of one of the leading Russian journals. C. C. Massey i ) ]
Jan. 19.   j | !
Sir,—The readers of The Spiritualist will be surprised and interested i}
in knowing that Colonel Olcott and Madame Blavatsky have been living j j J
for the last ten days with Dr. and Mrs. Billing at Norwood, and have !) i
just sailed for Bombay. j)
The mysterious authoress of Isis Unveiled desired that her presence j (
here should remain a secret, as her time was so short, and she feared i j
being disturbed by a number of curious inspectors. She, therefore, j) I
saw only the few members of the Theosophical Society now in London. I j j
Colonel Olcott is a man at once easily understood. A man of robust I ) j
health and strength, of great vigour, soundness, affection, and truthful- j) j
ness of mind, and of indomitable perseverance ; and one of whom you j \ i
feel that once to be his friend is to be his friend for ever. ! j i
Madame Blavatsky, or H. P. B., as she prefers to be called by her inti- !) i
mates, is not so easily understood, for she is sui generis and unique, a i \ \
mystery and an enigma. j j j
Swarthy, and of Tartar aspect, she is tall, strong, vigorous, and in j j j
perfect bodily health. She resembles a very powerful woman, about j j j
fifty-five years of age, but she asserts that she is eighty-two years of age. j) i
Her jaws are large, and furnished with perfectly regular and strong j j
teeth; and her eyes, though almost without colour, yet can read with- i s j
out glasses the smallest print, and can look you through and through, i ) j
and can read your character and thoughts at will. She is highly j) j
accomplished in languages and music, but is totally indifferent to the i (]
exhibition of these accomplishments, and to personal appearances, j j j
although she is possessed of a form and bearing of queenly dignity, if she |) j
only condescended to assume the garments and the mien. With irresistible j s j
powers of fascination, she seems only to despise the use of these powers, j j j
Enjoying enormous fits of laughter, she is yet for ever restless and sad. 1) |
She possesses that powerful dramatic force which proceeds from the j j j
intense convictions of a powerfully emotional nature. She declaims on ]) j
all subjects, rapidly passing from one to another, yet ever returning to |) i
her central idea ; the Spiritual wisdom and power of the East, from I s j
which must appear the coming man to rule the spiritual world. |) I
Of truly a great nature, but with, to my mind, one extravagant defect, | ( |
shown in her book and in her talk, an unreasoning and intolerant i (|
hatred of the doctrines and works of all Christian teachers. j) j
If you explain to her that your form of Christianity is spiritual and j l j
esoteric, and show that the essence of esoteric Brahmanism, Buddhism, h j
and Christianity are one and identical, namely, to find your hidden | / j
spiritual light, and unite this with the fountain and centre of all light, i (j
she at once accepts you as a spiritual brother ; but she cannot rest in 11 j
this, but noisily and for ever persists in confusing the essence with the j) I
external garments of Christianity. j ( !
This habit of mind arises 1 from her vehement reverence for her j (i
Eastern lords and masters, who are for ever being reviled by Christian I) j
missionaries. You may criticise herself freely as you like, but if you 11 i
whisper a word of treachery against her revered chiefs, you convert her | {i
into an implacable enemy, and from this characteristic it will be seen j >!
that she is very far from having reached that dignified and calm repose ] ( !
and sublime toleration which all who attain to the wisdom of the soul j i i
possess. . 1(1
Beyond all doubt she is a magician controlling the movements of
matter and counteracting the action of poisons, as I experienced in my
own person.
She is wonderful and unique, and to have known her as I have, is
always to remember her with affection, admiration, and respect.
George Wyld, M.D.
THE QUEEN’S ENGLISH.
Sir,—Do not we English turn our singulars into plural by the addi¬
tion of an “s” or an “ es? ” In that case is “media” an English
word? And do we not, when we adopt not only Latin terms, but those
of any other language, at once pluralise them with an “ s ? ” To take a
word analogous to medium, that is “ mediator,” which is plainly of
Latin origin, would it not be more than pedantic to talk of “ mediatores”
instead of “ mediators? ” Then who would speak of the word, un¬
doubtedly Latin, “ratio," in the plural as “ ratiores,” instead of
“ ratios ; ” or “ scrutatores ” instead of “ scrutators ; ” for I find the word
scrutator in the English dictionary ? This argument might be multi¬
plied to any extent. Besides, TrvEvpa means spirit; 4/vXV> only soul;
therefore the substitution of “ psychic ” for “ spiritual medium ” would
lower the medium in status, and would be too like truckling to Colonel
Olcott’s definition of spiritless souls, concerning which he tells us in The
Spiritualist of Dec. 7, 1877, that “mediumistic physical phenomena are
not produced by pure spirits, but by souls embodied or disembodied.”
And, again, here is his definition of a soul: “ The soul, you perceive, we
regard as matter though exceedingly sublimated, and as completely sub¬
ject to the laws of matter as the physical body itself.” I should not
have again referred to this subject were it not for the importance of the
cause.
It is remarkable that the Psychological Society, which has to do with
the soul, wishes to call itself the Pneumatological Society, which has
to do with the spirit, while you are calling on the Spiritualists also to
reverse the order of things, detrimentally to them, I think.
  Scrutator.
SPIRITUALISM IN TEXAS,
Sir,-—It may be interesting to your readers to hear something of the
progress our “ Ism ” is making in Texas, where I spent a delightful
summer lecturing on Emigration, hoping to rouse the Government to
a sense of the mass of depreciated labour in Great Britain. I was
told if I expected to do any good I must say nothing of Spiritualism ;
but heedless of this, I sent in my credentials to Governor Hubbard,
and in spite of, or in consequence of my belief, I had the following
cordial letter of welcome from him awaiting me when I landed in
Galveston :—“Executive Office, State of Texas, Austin, May 16,1878.
Mrs. M. G. Parker, Galveston, Texas.—My Dear Madame.—Yours of
the 10th May, from St. Cloud’s Hotel, New York, is before me. Recom¬
mended as you are by the press of both Europe and America, together
with the high testimonials of standing and character to which I am
referred, I am glad to welcome you to Texas. You express the inten¬
tion of inducing many of your countrymen to emigrate to Texas. That
you may be successful in the realisation of this hope is my sincere
desire. I will render you any assistance in my power, and shall be
glad to welcome you to our capitol.—Yours truly, R. B. Hubbard.”
In Austin there are a great number of Spiritualists, many of whom
hold private seances, go to the churches, whisper to each other of the results
of their experiments, but hardly dare to speak out yet. A very liberal
paper is published there, where progressive questions get fair hearing ;
this may be owing to the fact that a Miss French, a Spiritualist,
is sub-editor. Anyhow, the tone of the journal is to be highly com¬
mended. I found in San Antonia a number of believers. Amongst
the most intellectual and philosophical were Dr. More’s family and
Colonel Williams’s. Mrs. Williams has a daughter, who is a most
exquisite sensitive, giving astonishing tests to her circle of friends ;
strangers vied with each other for an introduction to her; her powers
were marvellous. Her nature and character were pure and trans¬
parent. Her parents assisted me to get up many discussions in my
own parlours, and with music and singing we spent delightful Sabbath
evenings, with doors and windows open, seated on the verandah, shaded
by trees laden with perfumed blossoms, glowing with tropical colours.
We entertained as many as thirty people on an average each evening.
For refreshment we had the splendid grapes and peaches which grow
abundantly in every garden about San Antonia.
We did not attempt any formal seances, but simply conversed
earnestly, and (as the Methodists do), exchanged our experiences. My
surprise was great to find such an amount of interest expressed by the
San Antonians. When I return there I shall expect a large harvest
from the seeds sown by myself and my warm friends, the Williamses
and the Mores ; they sustained our cause elegantly and intelligently.
I must not forget also another brilliant light, a lawyer of high standing,
Mr. .
Seeing the energetic efforts of friends in such places as Texas to
find truth and spread it, I am ashamed of our believers’ supineness at
home. I found a most intelligent and charming opponent in Dean
Richardson, with whom I travelled from San Antonia to Henston ; he
confessed to having once attended the seance of a friend who had told him
of furniture moving about as he willed it, but upon the Dean present¬
ing himself the furniture stood still. We had quite a group round us
in the railway carriage ; they laughed heartily at this proof of humbug,
but I turned the laugh by asking the rev. gentleman, “ Did you never
try any more?” “No.” “Well now,” I asked, “how much Greek
and Latin would you know if you had stopped short at the first diffi¬
culty?” The Dean is a genial-hearted, truly Christian gentleman; and
has a cathedral so exquisite in style and finish as to form quite a feature
in the country. On my way to San Antonia I met Mr. Charles Foster
and his wife at Henston, who promised to come on after me, if I
43
Jan. 24,1879.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
reported favourably. Unfortunately I delayed a week before writing,
and they had left before my letter reached them, else, as I told the
Dean, he himself would be in our ranks, and inviting me to give a
lecture in his church. There is a Literary Society at San Antonia,
which embraces all the talent of the place—a society which takes no
heed of sects or theology, but has “ performances ” once a week by
infidels, atheists, Spiritualists, Roman Catholics, and Methodists. Some
of our finely-spun home critics would be rather astonished at the
finished acting and singing of these amateurs in that far away, beauti¬
ful and romantic city. We had Spiritualism freely discussed in the
daily papers, many forgiving my harmless craze on this point, in con¬
sequence of my soundness on emigration. Mr. Foster made many
converts at Henston; it is test mediums who are needed. I do not
mean physical mediums, but those able to give names and mental tests.
Lecturing and music reach the emotional side only ; strong characters
require proof of the continuity of life. I know of no place where the
people are less prejudiced, or where there is to be found a finer field
for genuine medial power. I have much more to tell your readers of
that wonderful land Texas, and about the spirit of the people, but
am warned by the length of this letter to leave off for this week, and
ask your permission to continue it in your next issue.
Saeah Paekek.
17, Fitzroy-square, London.
PHVSICAI, DEFOKMITT IN THE SPIRIT WORLB.
Sir,—The Spiritualist of January 10th contains a highly-interesting
communication from Count de Bullet, and among the many things he
speaks of there, is the information he receives from an intelligent
spirit who tells him that “what we call physical deformity was laid
aside with the old apparel—cast off at death.”
I have myself a physical defect—I am lame; and have often won¬
dered if I would, in the spirit world, be in the same condition. But I
have received great comfort in my dreams, for in them I am never lame,
but always feel very uneasy when I lose my walking stick, though it
does not assist me then in walking.
Not very long ago I dreamt that I was walking through some fields,
and that I caught a bird ; it necessitated the use of both my hands to
prevent the little captive, who was struggling to escape, from being
injured. I hung my walking stick on my arm, and went on to a town
that I saw before me. I had gone about half a mile when I perceived
that I had lost my stick. I felt very uneasy, though I knew that I did
not require it. 1 returned to seek it, and retraced my steps for fully a
quarter of a mile before I found it, and again went towards the town
with the stick hanging on my arm. I was determined not again to lose
it, and arrived with it and the bird in the suburbs of the town, when I
awoke from my walk in Dreamland. Joseph Swinbuene.
January 14th, 1879. ■■
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—Having seen one or two reports of seances with Mr. Haxby,
published in The Spiritualist, I take the liberty of tendering a brief
statement of a seance given by him at my residence, on Thursday night
last, under conditions which (practically) erected a “ scientific frontier ”
against imposition.
The sitters were Mr. Haxby, a sceptical young lady (pronounced
medial by various authorities), two children aged seven and ten, and
myself. Mr. Haxby and the lady joined hands; I held mine free
to continually investigate the junction, which I did, without hesitation
or hindrance, keeping them in contact all the time, except when one of
the children became alarmed for a moment, and I took her on my
knee.
During forty-seven minutes powerful physical manifestations took
place ; one of the children (not the one who was alarmed) was carried
away from the table; the table was also placed in a corner of the
room on its side in front of her. Loud raps in various parts of the
room answered questions. The medium was meantime entranced, and
conversing as “Joey.” A tall form was seen several times between
the window and the two observers, and all four sitters were repeatedly
touched by what appeared to be a fist. The only light in the room
was derived from a gas-light in the street shining through Venetian
blinds.
The sitters present were H. Olive, L. "Weight, and two children ; the
medium, Mr. W Haxby. H. Olive.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W., January 16, 1879.
SPIRIT IBENTITY.
Sir,—I have just finished the perusal of the interesting paper by
W. Stainton Moses, M.A., entitled The Intelligent Operator at the other
End of the Line, and with whose opinions, generally, I am often in
cordial agreement, but on this occasion I beg to take exception to one of
the cases given as proof of spirit identity.
Alluding to a spirit who first manifested her presence on the 4th
September, 1872, he says, “ The spirit in question announced herself by
raps, giving messages in French. She said she was a sister of Dr.
Speer’s, and had passed away at Tours, an infant of seven months old.
She gave her date of birth, and also her four names in full. She has
many times given direct writing.” As I am unable to reconcile these
facts with my own experience in spiritual investigation, extending over
thirteen years, I shall be obliged if Mr. Moses will be kind enough to
explain how an infant of seven months old could give the date of her
birth, or her four names in full, or direct writing, as I apprehend that
she could have no cognisance of any of these things whilst on earth.
Soliciting the favour of the insertion of the above in The Spiritualist
Delta.
Hyde, near Manchester.
THE RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—It is far from my wish to prolong a correspondence which has
already served its purpose.
Miss Kislingbury, apparently, does not admire the Socratic method.
I beg to assure her that I laid no trap for her, and that my four pro -
positions required no answer from her, being merely convenient
methods of suggesting truth in the form of queries, the answers to
which, so far from filling a number of The Spiritualist, might have
been written on the back of her visiting card.
Question No. 5 needs another answer, and Miss Kislingbury will find
it in The Spiritualist for January 25, 1878, p. 40, § 3.
At that time—long to look back upon, yet only twelve short months
ago—she was defending the views of the Theosophists, with much en¬
thusiasm, against one “M.A., Oxon,” who maintained the tenets of
Spiritualism. Times are changed, and she now propounds from the
standpoint of the Catholic Church the same doctrine, with the same
underlying confusion of thought.
The reply of “M.A., Oxon,” on that occasion, I should be willing to
adopt now as my own. Throughout the Bible (and, I may add,
throughout the creeds and formularies of all branches of the Church
of Christ) immortality, in its plain sense, is predicated of every soul.
But for some it is an immortality of bliss: this is called eternal life ;
for others an immortality of woe: this is called eternal death. The
words Life and Death are plainly used in the allegorical or symbolic
sense common among the Hebrews. In our modern speech the word
Immortality cannot be so used without confusion ; and this my know¬
ledge of Hebrew, Greek, and Latin, to say nothing of English, makes
plain to me. Nor does even Mr. Dodwell affect the conclusion.
I raised the point with no eye to controversy, but because I find a
doctrine that I believe to be chimerical urged as a fair ground of
argument. The Theosophists, as will be seen by reference to the pages
of The Spiritualist of a year ago, insist on it, but I hardly know on
what authority. It has been put forward, too, by a few enthusiasts
who assert it on the authority of some stray texts in the Bible. Any
one who is at all versed in theological controversy knows well enough,
by sad experience, that such methods can prove anything to minds that
can receive proof of that order. But it is not in any sense a doctrine
of the Church of Christ, nor was it ever taught by Him.
A doctrine stated once or twice, and unchallenged, is very apt to
assert itself with increased power. Hence I asked my little question,
neither in pride nor in humility, but simply for information ; aping
nothing, nor dreading any return to ancestral apishness, but resolved
to preserve my sacred right not to “submission to any discipline,” but
to search out a reason always for the faith that is in me; intending,
moreover, to be a Doasyoulike to the end of the chapter, in the
highest sense of doing what my internal arbiter approves.
I have the less reason for trenching further on your valuable space
that I have opportunity of explaining my position more fully on the
publication of the paper which originated this correspondence.
W. Stainton-Moses.
Our acts our angels are, or good or ill;
Our fatal shadows that watch by us still.
Sir,—Before any accurate judgment can be formed of a subject, and
especially the subject of Spiritualism, it seems to me of paramount
importance to, if possible, fully comprehend what are its essential
features.
As a definition, then, of Spiritualism, that which has been so long
most usefully published as a heading to the Spiritual Magazine seems
to me, for its comprehensive brevity and accuracy, not only unequalled
by any seen by me, but one that should always be kept before the
public. It is the following
“ Spiritualism is based on the cardinal fact of spirit communion
and influx ; it is the effort to discover all truth relating to man’s
spiritual nature, capacities, relations, duties, welfare, and destiny; and
its application to a regenerate life. It recognises a continuous Divine
inspiration in man; it aims, through a careful and reverent study of
| facts, at a knowledge of the laws and principles which govern the
| occult forces of the universe ; of the relations of spirit to matter, and
of man to God and the spiritual world. It is thus catholic and
progressive, leading to true religion as at one with the highest
philosophy.”
I As to the effects of spirit communion—if it brings glad tidings and
priceless strength, to cheer the lonely, the wretched, or the godless—
if it teaches us that our happiness here and hereafter depend not upon
any sectarian creed, but on a life of loving self-denial for the well-
j being of the ignorant and oppressed—if it with equal certainty assures
j us that our thoughts and acts are seen, with grief, or admiration, by
| our dearest and revered ones of the spirit realm—if it inculcates that
! universality of soul which embraces all our fellow beings as brethren,
i irrespective of creed, colour, or country—and, lastly, if we hnow that
| the results, as indicated, are a peerless power and exaltation to us—
i spirit communion is incomparably the greatest blessing and most potent
I regenerator ever known to the world.
It is true, of course, that different religious and other ideas are
imparted from the spirit world accordant with the different states and
intelligence of those who communicate ; and it is also evident that the
effect of spirit communion must be as different with different persons
I as are their respective states of development. But these facts no
more alter the Divine features—the vital, limitless, and eternal bless¬
ings of Spiritualism—than can the eye of the blind man the face of
the sun.
If the needfully comprehensive definition of Spiritualism above
quoted does not represent the soul of the universe, what does ? Yet
we have been told it is negative, and does not afford a religion. Let
us see. We shall certainly not logically get out of it that very common
44
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 24, 1879.
self-seeking “religion” by 'which so many hope to secure for them- |v|
selves as much as possible here and hereafter, whilst practically caring |(
nothing what becomes of the bulk of humanity. But if we impartially j j
and rationally analyse the nature of the Deity, and of the human soul | <
—assure ourselves of their main attributes—we may, I believe, all see | j
therefrom that there is but one religious and social truth, the heart of | (
which is love to God and man, and that devotion to the well-being of | <
the latter is the measure of our reverence for the former. "We thus ! ]
obtain a self-elucidating principle of truth for guidance in all our i (
relations, a principle that has the nature of the Almighty Bather for j <
its basis. j *
A perception of this truth of truths shows one how vain it would i <
be to expect anything like regeneration to be generally affected by j <
spiritual communion, or any other influence, so long as the existing i ]
selfish basis of our social relations be systematically maintained. | (
Through it people are habitually forced to do violence to their con- | <
sciences—to think very lightly, if at all, of the deep immorality of j j
preying upon one another till the weaker and worse-conditioned ones j ,
are driven to want, crime, and the depth of misery. To it is due all ] <
the wretched makeshifts and mockeries that pass current as “ right ” i j
and “ religion,” with the tissue of absurdities that cunning selfishness j (
has tacked on to the simple ethics of Christ, and which now is sworn | <
to as Christianity. i |
Those who can see far enough, and have had any experience with I (
the subject, see also how wearying, if not hopeless, in the present day i <
it is to refer to it, because the great bulk of people cannot yet see that i
they want the truth. But however difficult of perception this truth !
(first principles) is to us, the practical result of it — thoroughgoing I
justice to all our hind—: seems to be easily perceived, if it does not i j
induce the other blindness. !)
In stating what I have I am very far from supposing that a com- | j
munity could accept and practice such a radical system off-hand, or j j
other than very gradually; but unless, as I fervently hope, the system j-)
of co-operative production now succeeding in the north may in time j j
have its heart and strength sufficiently enlarged to supplant the existing ] >
godless one, I see not how this nation can escape the ruin that befel j )
its ancient predecessors, whose social life had a similar soulless basis. | \
How far it may be deemed the duty and the mission of those known ! )
as Spiritualists to thoroughly examine this question, I must, of course, |)
leave them to judge. Alpha. j j
January 16, 1879. —  i j
Sjr,—One of the most interesting and instructive lectures it has ever n
been my good fortune to listen to was delivered by Mr. J. William I
Fletcher, the American clairvoyant, at Cavendish Rooms, on Sunday j l
evening. i|
His lecture, “Are the Manifestations of Modern Spiritualism Anti- i)
Biblical?” evidenced a thorough knowledge, not only of Bible history, !j
but the law that seems to have controlled spiritual manifestations in j)
all ages. j)
Mr. Fletcher’s utterances, while clear cut and forcible, are always i
characterised by a spirit of toleration and liberality which goes far
towards convincing his hearers of the inspiring source from which these |)
truths emanated.
Mr. Fletcher’s guides treated especially of the manifestations of spirit | j
power recorded in the Bible and claimed that the same law which |
operated in the age of so-called miracles is nowin existence, and operates j j
through the manifestations of modern Spiritualism. j j
The propositions were many and well sustained, and those who for i
years have felt that the Bible was rich in precepts and pathos would j J
have found new beauties to admire, and fresh truths held out for their i j
acceptance, while Spiritualists, who have in many instances utterly i ]
discarded the Bible, found that much wheat has been wasted in order | j
to destroy the chaff. I j
The lecturer took occasion to impress upon his audience that he j 1
made no effort to sustain the Bible, because its occurrences were in j
many instances counterparted by the spiritual manifestations now being | j
developed; nor did he value modern developments the more because j
they were paralleled by the manifestations of Bible times. But he j j
sought to prove, if possible, that the spiritual law had existed and de- j)
monstrated itself throughout all the uncivilised and bigoted eras of the | j
past, and has outlived the King Herods of bigotry, who would have | j
killed it in its infancy. | j
Mr. Fletcher’s comparison of the phases of mediumship now extant, ! j
and those possessed by Jesus, Peter, Cornelius, Joshua, and Paul, were | j
such as to encourage the workers of to-day in feeling that they were j |
supported by the precedent of honourable work and workers, and to | )
give exceeding gladness to those dear companions of the Truth Teacher | I
of Nazareth, who left this world early, with their medial work un- j j
finished.
His description of the crucifixion and resurrection of Christ, the |
faithful devotion of the two Marys, the scepticism of the Jews, the | j
bribery of the Roman soldiers, reached a sublimity of pathos and j j
poetry rarely equalled. He remarked that as the Roman soldiers were i
bribed to swear falsely regarding the apostles and the stealing of the j j
body of Jesus, may it not be also possible that some of the Roman in- j j
vestigators of the present day have been bribed to betray our modern j {
mediums, who are the instruments through which the great truths of j)
Spiritualism are demonstrated. | (
In summing up, he said that the grandest spiritual manifestation yet ! j
given to mortals is the phenomenon of existence; that the body is but j j
the living cabinet through which the indwelling spirit expresses j |
itself; the eyes are but the apertures in the dark cabinet curtain through I -y
which the soul peeps; our lungs the tube through which the direct I)
voice of our spirit is given; and night and sleep the music and darkness j |
necessary to furnish the spirit with full and exalted power. Truly j \
nature holds a dark seance every twenty-four hours. I j
We wish that those who are in London could have heard and profited
by these really inspired utterances, and fully realised the beautiful
analogy so skilfully drawn between ancient and modern Spiritualism.
Not content with preaching, Mr. Fletcher proposes to form a Sunday
school, where children from eight to eighty may be taught something of
that belief now so little known and greatly misunderstood—Spiritualism.
I also add that Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald very ably presided, and
fine music was furnished by Miss Leslie Younge and Miss Maitland.
May God bless Mr. Fletcher in his noble work is the prayer of
“ One who Listened.”
Sir,—Mr. J. T. Markley may have no wish to enter the controversy
further, nor have L The letter of Miss Kislingbury, which gave rise to
this controversy, has been well answered by your correspondent signing
herself “ Isabel de Steiger;” but I think his letter of the 17th calls
for some remarks.
He appears to favour the Roman Catholic view of Spiritualism.
Well, every one has a right to enjoy his own opinions and to advocate
them; but I would ask if he couples the epithets “ Bradlaughism ” and
“ free love ” to all those Spiritualists who may differ from him in their
religious views, and may not accept all the Church doctrines ? If that
be Mr. Markley’s meaning, I beg to enter my protest.
Mr. Bradlaugh is an anti-Spiritualist of the most pronounced type ;
and if Mr. Markley had any acquaintance with Spiritualists in
America, he would know that those who profess the doctrine of “ free
love” form so small a proportion to the millions of Spiritualists as to be
not worthy of notice, except as a morbid excrescence.
For my own part, I would as soon accept the chance of a bright
future in the other world of many a true-hearted Spiritualist outside
the pale of the Church, as of the most devout Catholic that ever told
beads. W. C. P.
London, Jan. 17th, 1879, - 
Sir,—Before the discussion on Immortality is allowed to drop in your
paper, will you allow me to suggest to your many able correspondents
that the many apparent contradictory passages in Scripture, which each
has quoted in support of his view of the subject, could all be recon¬
ciled if they would, or could, believe that immortality, without severance
of body and spirit, is alluded to by the speakers, and that it was this
fact which Jesus believed Himself called to manifest, and which He
would have manifested if those who were wrath at His pretensions had
not risen up and slain Him ?
For those who can accept the writings of the ancient fathers of our
faith, such as Moses and the prophets, as containing the secret of
eternal life, it is written; but it is doubtful if others can find it, though
with God all is possible; and we may, therefore, hope they also will be
gathered in some day, so that there will be but one fold and one
Shepherd.
In those Scriptures we are clearly given to understand that we have
our very being or life from the Eternal; that the continuity of life in its
perfection, which is one of development into higher conditions, without
a sudden shock, did, in the days of an Adamic being, receive this ^dis-
astrous or destructive shock, which destroyed the order of life’s work,
and a severance of body and spirit took place, the latter forsaking its
tabernacle, which in consequence dissolved, until science in later days
took it in hand, and preserved it by embalming, and the spirit which
had lost its visible covering was gathered to its fathers. The belief was
that this condition was abnormal, and that the day was to come when
deliverance would be obtained, and the promise was made to Abraham
that he should have the land for an eternal inheritance or possession.
It is our translators who have created so much darkness by translating
the Hebrew word inheritance; they, poor men, not daring to believe in
that of which they had no experience. All the promises are made on
conditions, and all these conditions had their esoteric as well as exoteric
meanings. Because these conditions have not yet been fulfilled, as far
as we know (and who is it who can dare to say he knows what has
befallen every single being who has been born into this earth, when we
read of so many “ missing” from among us ?), man, and woman, and
quadruped, and insect, and fish, and fowl, continue to manifest their
fallen condition; for those who can believe that Jesus was a true
messenger from the Eternal Author of our being, who declared that
now was the day of salvation born into the earth, when men who
would keep His sayings should not taste of death, and who told
the young man that if he would have life, he must keep the Command¬
ments, beginning with the sixth, thou shalt not kill; for these the way
is opened, and the narrow path made straight. For those who can
believe that the Author of their life is both able and willing, aye, long¬
ing, to keep them from falling, if they will only come to Him to be
saved, the day has come for the mortal to put on immortality, not to
be unclothed. “ The gift of God is eternal life.” No one who passes
off this earth by the process called death, which requires either the
burial or cremation of that which has been left behind, has appropriated
that gift which is offered to all. For the covenant with Noah is made
with all animal life; for with God there is no difference; and in the
early stages of animal life this process of development without destruc¬
tion is to be found going on around us, though only lately, as it were,
made known to us. Let me conclude by quoting the words of Sister
Celeste, as given in “J. C. E.’s” article in the January number of the
Psychological Review:—“ I mean^that I believe that Christ comes to
abolish death, and not merely to take away its sting. If people do die,
and are buried, it is because they have not faith. I am persuaded that
each one who is in Christ might be resolved into a spiritual substance
like Enoch and Elijah, without dying, if he could only believe.” And a
voice is heard in the centre of our being—Woman, thy faith hath made
thee whole, live in peace ; and though knowing that it is written by
men of the present day that those who hold that faith are labouring
under “ happy delusions” and “aberrations,” because it is “contrary to
all but universal experience,” the writer will add her name to the list
45
Jan. 24, 387§.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
of those “ladies who are possessed of this singular idea,” and let me
add firm faith, and with faith, we are told, we shall remove mountains.
To one of your inquirers the answer is—the “ secret of the Logos ” is
revealed from within, and to those who overcome their unbelief is given
the hidden manna on which they verily and indeed feed, and a white
stone, and in the stone a new name, which none knoweth save they that
receive, and he that overcomes his unbelief shall not be hurt of the
second death, our first death being conscious separate existence from
the Author of Life. Eleanor Irving Matheson.
January 17th, 1879. - - 
Sir,—I have been much pleased with the correspondence and expres¬
sion of opinions on the religious aspects of Spiritualism called forth by
Miss Kislingbury’s letters, though I was sorry to find it urged by one of
your ablest contributors that Spiritualism had little influence on our
ideas about a future life; and that because of the want of unity of belief
among leading Spiritualists, it was therefore (presumably) disqualified
for a place on the same pedestal with the most peculiar or smallest sect
registered by law.
What hopes I now have of continued existence I frankly own were
first generated in me through the investigation of modern Spiritualism;
and though I admit now (also a result of my inquiry) that there may be
other methods by which the mind may satisfy itself of life hereafter, I
yet dare affirm, from a large personal acquaintance with many intelli¬
gent pastors and people among the many sects of Christians, that their
faith in a future life is as flickering as the Spiritualists’ is firm and
steadfast. I have frequently heard them express the wish for the firm
ground of hope of immortality which the phenomena of Spiritualism
afford, so that they might be rid of the horrid doubts which rise up
before them as they ponder over this cardinal doctrine of their
most holy faith. For this reason, if for no other, Spiritualism, which
undertakes to provide objective phenomena in answer to the almost
universal desire not only for life, but for fuller life, deserves a place
alongside of the largest, and not the smallest sect registered
by law. Is diversity of opinion among Spiritualists to bar
the way to Spiritualism being religiously regarded? I have no
wish to enter into a theological discussion; but if the want
of unity among Spiritualists is a sufficient reason to deprive it
of any religious standing, by the same reasoning process (and your
correspondent will not think it unfair if we apply it) Christianity
itself becomes a mere classification of curious psychological phenomena,
for we find that while many believe in the divinity of Jesus, there are
others who deny it entirely, and look on the gentle Nazarene as a human
—though gloriously human—brother. Many earnestly advocate the
doctrine of salvation by faith alone, while others as sincerely teach that
salvation is obtainable only through good works—the latter holding that
good conduct rather than a correct creed is the best passport to another
world ; whilst the former teach that all rightdoing is as filthy rags
unless accompanied by saving faith. Who can bridge the gulf existing
between the intellectual conceptions of the Unitarian and Trinitarian,
or blend into a harmonious whole the Arminian’s ideas of free grace and
the Calvinist’s dogma of predestination, the logic of fatalism with
the doctrine of man’s free will. Many are still preaching eternal dam¬
nation alongside those holding out the eternal hope of the final restora¬
tion of all mankind, while others are inculcating the idea of the
annihilation of a portion, and the immortality of the remainder of
the human family; and not a few in this age, owing to the promulgation
of such apparently irreconcilable opinions, deny entirely the perpetua¬
tion of the individuality. If, in the judgment of your able correspondent,
the “ note of unity ’’ is a pre-requisite of religion, would he kindly point
it out in the Christian faith, as expressed in the various sects pro¬
mulgating such diversity of opinions as the few I have tabulated ?
Spiritualism, it is further urged, offered a number of physical facts in
which your correspondent could not see any moral bearing whatever.
I think it is Carlyle who speaks of a fact as being a divine revelation; and
though the definition may be regarded as true only in a poetical sense,
I, nevertheless, cannot but think it is more approximately correct than
that philosophy which would draw the line between physics and
morality. It may be quite correct that erroneous conclusions are too
frequently deduced from a too circumscribed experience of uncommon
phenomena ; but your correspondent would do eminent service if he
would kindly undertake to say how long the intellect is to dominate in
this inquiry, before it passes from a classification merely, to an explana¬
tion of facts that have been before an unsympathising and critical
world for over thirty years. By all means let us have (and more of it,
too) the dry light of experiment and the fierce flame of discussion; but
may not such an attitude of mind be pushed too far? So at least
thought an eminent man lately passed away from our midst, who wrote,
“ The Intellect is the servant, not the lord of the Heart, and Science
is a futile frivolous pursuit, unworthy of greater respect than a game of
chess, unless it subserve some grand religious aim, unless its issue be in
some enlarged conception of inan’s life and destiny.” Jno. Mould.
Newcastle-on-Tyne, 9th Jan., 1879.
Sir,—With reference to the interesting correspondence caused by the
bomb which Miss Kislingbury lately exploded in the Spiritual camp, I
wish to say a few words.
The view of Miss Kislingbury and the Theosophists that immortality
is not for all, but must be won through strenuous effort in the great
battle for continued life, appears to me to be such a melancholy hypo¬
thesis as to the arrangements governing this very peculiar world (if it
be not also a view involving manifest injustice), that I beg to join in Mr.
Stainton-Moses’s reasonable request that Miss Kislingbury should
kindly let us have some proofs for such a startling allegation.
I. must add, nevertheless, that this doctrine possibly has the support
of no less a master of thought than Goethe, who, in his Conversations
with Eckermann (Bohn'a translation, page 41-2), says : “What a deal
I have people philosophised about immortality—and how far have they
got ? I doubt not of our immortality, for nature cannot dispense with
the entelechia (spirit or soul); but we are not all in like manner
immortal, and he who would manifest himself in future as a great
entelechia must be one now.”
In a previous Conversation (p. 360), Goethe however says : “ Neither
does the philosopher need the countenance of religion to prove certain
doctrines, as, for instance, eternal duration. Man should believe in
immortality; he has a right to this belief; it corresponds with the wants
of his nature, and he may believe in the promises of religion. But if
the philosopher tries to deduce the immortality of the soul from a legend,
that is very weak and inefficient. To me the eternal existence of my
soul is proved from my idea of activity ; if I work on incessantly till
my death, nature is bound to give me another form of existence when
the present one can no longer sustain my spirit.”
Again, in another conversation (p. 308), Goethe says:—“Every
entelechia is a piece of eternity, and the few years during which it is
bound to the earthly body does not make it old.”
j It remains, however, a serious question whether this continual occu-
| pation of the thoughts with the question of a future life, which appears
particularly to occupy Spiritualists and Spiritualistic literature, be not
a sign of a low state of culture, and of an unhappy and diseased habit
of extreme self-consciousness. In the best ages of the world, and with
| those minds which have done most to advance true culture, there has
| always been less of this self-introspection and vain prying into what
may be intentionally hidden from man (so far as strict proof is concerned),
and more of active effort for their own improvement and for that of
| humanity, leaving them less time and inclination for these speculations
j as to a future state. If the time occupied in these theologic pursuits
had been applied in trying to establish the much wanted solidarity in
material things, the state of the world and society, it seems to me,
| would have been in a better condition; and I doubt not that when this
solidarity (the evident aim of the teaching of Jesus) shall have been
attained, the world will be so much happier, and so much occupied with
j practical improvements, that men will have no time to indulge in these
j sort of inquiries, but being intensely happy and contented now, they
will have faith enough to conclude, without wasting time in abstract
| philosophical speculations, that they will be equally happy then.
Goethe says (p. 66) :—“ This occupation with the ideas of immor-
j tality is for people of rank, and especially ladies who have nothing to
do. But an able man, who has something regular to do here, and must
| toil and struggle and produce day by day, leaves the future world to
j itself, and is active and useful in this. Thoughts about immortality are
I also good for those who have not been very successful here.”
If we would all pay more attention to realise the great ideal of the
future, “ Solidarity in material things; Individuality in spiritual
things,” it might, perhaps, be better for us.*
After all, we should never forget Goethe’s words of wisdom (p. 161):
—“ Man is born not to solve the problems of the universe, but to find
out where the problem begins, and then to restrain himself within the
limits of the comprehensible. His faculties are not sufficient to measure
the actions of the universe, and the attempt to explain the outer world
by reason is, with his narrow point of view, but a vain endeavour.
| The reason of man and the reason of the Deity are two very different
j things.”
It seems to me that the great advantage of Spiritualism is that it will
i encourage a more accurate investigation of the occult powers of man
incorporated on earth, for I think these abnormal powers now existing
] only in germ, with an environment here on earth unsuitable to their
exercise, will eventually afford the most satisfactory proofs of a con-
i tinued existence beyond the grave; for is it not evident that these powers
I can only be accounted for by supposing a future sphere for their develop-
I ment and normal exercise ? Without such a sphere they seem worse
| than useless. To my mind, impressed by my own experience, and from
| what I have read of Spiritualistic literature, the proofs of immortality
derived from this source are more convincing than the statements of the
j “ intelligent operator at the other end of the line,” because so very
| many of the communications made by these operators have been found
to be so altogether untrustworthy, that it becomes a most difficult and
| doubtful matter to distinguish what is true from what is false and
personation.
I I am far from saying that there may not be some trustworthy com-
j munications from this source, and still more that in future, when seances
1 are better conducted with harmonious circles, and the medium pro-
! tected, a great deal of what is valuable may not be obtained.
I Dr. Wyld, in his letter in The Spiritualist of 10th January, says that
“ the hidden and esoteric doctrine of Christ can be understood by those
only who hold the mystical key.” Now as I, and I doubt not many
others, do not possess this key, but at the same time are very desirous
to know all truth, I think Dr. Wyld would confer a favour on many by
i i stating openly what that hidden esoteric doctrine is. Mysteries and
1 j esoteric teaching were necessary in former ages of intolerance, when the
| more enlightened members of society were afraid to express openly their
I! real opinions, on account of fear either of the wrath of the ignorant
j I multitude, or of the calculated and interested persecution of the
| organised priesthoods of all religions; but now there exists no necessity
I for any esoteric teaching, and it seems to me that any one possessing
! any hidden knowledge, or the key to such, is bound to disclose it, so that
! all may enjoy the benefit of the truth, as well as the initiated.
I I am sure many also would wish to know “ the secret of the Logos ”
i alluded to by Dr. Wyld, in order to ascertain if it be in any way different
| from the well-known Neoplatonic and Gnostic views. Perhaps Dr.
j Wyld will be kind enough to give your readers some information on
| these most interesting subjects.
* John S. Mill, who was far from being an enthusiast, agreed with the view of Jesus that
the present organisation of labour, based on the principle of private interests and selfish¬
ness, was not the final form which would be developed by social humanity.
46
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Tan. 24, 1879.
It seems to me that the open (not esoteric) mission of Jesus was to
lead mankind to the belief in the highest ideal of the unseen Divinity—
that ideal which, welled up out of His own beautiful soul, as a God of
love to all men, as His children, and that the consequent feeling of the
necessary brotherhood of man, and the duties arising from such brother¬
hood, could only be rightly manifested by material solidarity, or the
abolition of all private interests in material things.
It seems to me that the merit of the life and works of Jesus con¬
sisted in this, that having seen amongst the Essenians (in whose
society he probably spent many years before entering on his public
teaching) the good effects of this system of solidarity, combined with
the purest simplicity of life and diet, and the constant aspiration to
subdue the grosser part of our nature, in order to the attainment of
higher spiritual aims, he conceived the idea of generalising this beau¬
tiful system of life for the whole world, instead of its being confined, as
it was in His time, to a small and exclusive sect, or brotherhood. He
evidently wished to make the Essenian practices the basis of the future
organisation of society ; and, of course, in the then state of the world,
the attempt failed and cost . Him his life. If He were to attempt it
now he would only be laughed at.*
Jesus was the great Freethinker and Social Reformer of that age in
his part of the world.
It is but too plain, as has been proved by Lessing, the greatest critic
of modern times, that almost all traces of the real teaching of Christ
died out and were neglected in a comparatively short space of time
after His death; and that the theologic doctrines and dogmas of Chris¬
tianity, as authorised and taught by the various Christian churches, are
mostly in direct opposition to the doctrines and practices of Jesus.
Hence we must always carefully distinguish between the religion of
Christ, which is one thing, and Christianity, which is a totally
different thing.
An analogous advance from the exclusive to the more general—from
esoteric truth to open truth—was made by Moses for the Israelites by
his openly revealing to them as their future religion the then esoteric
doctrine of the unity of the Supreme God, which he had learned from
the secret teaching of the Egyptian temples. In doing this he pre¬
sented to them as the object of their worship the one God Jehovah,
which word is simply a literal translation of the hidden esoteric name
of the Egyptian absolute God—“ Nuk-pu-Nuk,” “ I am that I am.”
This intellectual advance by Moses was an endeavour to extend to
all the Israelitic tribes a truth which up to his time had been esoteric
and confined to the Egyptian priesthood; but the altogether grander
and more important advance initiated by Jesus was to extend a truer
system of life and labour to all the world, not confining it to any nation,
small sect, or brotherhood.
A similar movement was made in India by Cakya Muni, about 500
years before Jesus, in order to extend the advantages and privileges of
his new reform to all men, instead of confining them, as was then done,
to the Brahmanic caste.
I trust Dr. Wyld may be induced to give us the esoteric teaching of
Jesus, as it may, perhaps, throw great light upon his open mission to
men. A. J. C.
Lucerne, Switzerland, January 17th, 1879.
Sm,—It will be a long time before we see religion and Spiritualism
melting into one, like double-stars, which are separated only by powerful
telescopes. So two points seem to draw nearer each other, the farther
we go from them. Minds which by independence are already on the
move, should aspire for such high points of view as to draw the most
distant points of the same light, the churches, into one cluster, and by
a still higher flight into one point, to be finally absorbed in the grand
church of the Universe.
Spiritualism means religion ; religion means Spiritualism. Churches
mean religion, but religion not necessarily churches—except for those
whose constitution of mind requires a narrower scope and attachment
to a close at hand group of the whole. When quitting in our mental
flight our planet with its traditional habits of thought and belief, the
rapture due to increasing splendour of light is soon checked by the
alarming dimensions of the dark shadows, swallowing up the shining
patches which guided us in troubles and doubts. Hence the advisability
of timid aspirants joining a flock, under a shepherd, to be at peace, to
be consoled, and comforted, and cheered, and encouraged, and shorn, as
the seasou may demand, until growing strength prepares them for
ultimate liberty. C. Reimers.
47, Mornington-road, London, Jan. 19th, 1879.
THE CHANGE OF SUBSTANCE.
Sib,—I have always understood that the great importance of the
facts of Spiritism was in the positive proof afforded of immortality
or continued existence by the actual presence of the spirits of the so-
called dead, or, in law terms, we have the very man Tom Brown, an old
friend, whom we may put in the witness box and cross-question as to his
* It is curious to observe how the noble human and rational character of Jesus so soon
became changed, when passed through the distorting media of theology and mythology,
gradually applied to it, by the churches and the school of Alexandria; how so many charac¬
teristics of the solar and season myths, and of the Osirian and Mithraic legends, gradually
came to cluster round His head, and those of the holy family, so as to accommodate the new
religion in process of formation to the popular ignorance and prejudices. This unfortunate
fesult, combined with the still more unfortunate introduction by "Paul into the new growing
religion of the heathen doctrine of Sacrifice, have together, in great degree, ruined the re¬
ligion of Christ, however much they inay have assisted in spreading abroad the superstitions
of Christianity. The origin of this notion of sacrifice is very simple, and must be well
known to all who have investigated the early phases of religion ; in these,•'The gods were
supposed to have bodies exactly like those of human beings, and like them requiring food
and stimulants (“ sacrificial viands, ” as the sacrifices are called in the old hymns), to give
them strength to contend against the evil demons who wished to injure man, principally
by keeping back rain, on which their prosperity then altogether depended. This form of
religion was a strict bargain and sale between men and the gods; I shall give you, gods, food
and drink, praise and music, during the feast and you in return will give me rain to feed
thy flocks, so that there may be perpetual food for us, men, and viands on the altars for your
gods. The superstitions which this doctrine brought jnto Christianity I need not enumerate,
identity. But it is argued by Mr. Serjeant Cox, and now again by the
Rev. George Blencowe, that the facts of memory and the continuing
sense of identity, notwithstanding the entire change of the substance of
the body, is proof of a real self or independent spirit that uses the body
somehow as an instrument, itself not changing or being subject to
growth, refreshment, or decay, so that we have the evidence of the ex¬
istence of the real self or independent soul during life in the body, as
well as in the reappearance of the spirit after death. But with all due
deference to the learned lawyer and the divine, such an argument
ignores the great law and universal spiritual principle of life and growth
in the transference of the living principle with its precise conditions,
and in every instance to the new matter added to or received by the organ¬
ism in question, or to any particular part of such organism. This magical or
magnetic and conservative principle of life and development in the exact
transfer of qualities and conditions is one of the most astonishing facts
of living nature; and I call it magical, because it is profoundly
“ mystical and transcendental.’’ The error is in studying man by him¬
self as an exception and anomaly in nature, when this law of transference
equally applies to all animals, and indeed as well to the whole vegetable
world. The. oak tree a hundred years old has been a hundred times
changed, every spring transferring its oak nature to the new matter,
and each part transferring or leavening the fresh material with its
special character and function, and with a determined exactness that
admits of no mistake. The substance of horse and dog and cat is
changed, as well as that of man, and they equally retain their identity
and memory.
I believe I was the first to explain this law of transfer as a general
fact. It is twice referred to in my Letters to Miss Martineau, published
in 1851, and the statement has never been objected to, even by Dr.
Carpenter, who has so often referred to those letters from time to time
ever since they were published. Your bird moults its feathers, and they
are reproduced exactly as before, with the same form, pattern, and spots ;
and the little chick exhibits all the instincts of its parents at once on
coming from the shell. These are facts, though utterly incomprehen¬
sible, but in which giving warning that conceivability is not the criterion
of truth, and that assertion and assumption will not help us neither in
matters spiritual any more than in questions of pure physics.
Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.  
HACKNEY SPIRITUAL EVIDENCE SOCIETY.
Sir,—At a meeting held on the 7th inst., the above title was formally
accepted, and the following officers were unanimously elected, viz.:—
Mr. H. J. Peck, president, pro tem. Mr. C. R. Williams, hon. secretary
and treasurer; and myself corresponding secretary. There will be a
members’ seance on Monday next, 27th inst. A meeting will be held
on Tuesday, February 4th, at 8 p.m., to relate experiences, and to con¬
sider the desirability of forming a developing circle. Will friends
kindly attend? The Sunday meetings will be resumed on the first
Sunday in March, at 7 p.m.; these meetings will be under the direction
of Mr. C. R. Williams, and will be quite distinct from the work of the
society. The members’ seances have given great satisfaction, and with
your permission, Mr. Editor, I hope to be able to send you a report
soon. A. J. London, Cor. Sec.
6, Field Yiew-terrace, London-fields, E ,
Jan. 20th, 1879.  
M. C. CONSTANT ON SPIRITUALISM.
The Secretary of the British National Association of Spiiitualists
has received the following letter from Monsieur C. Constant, of
Smyrna, which is now published at his own request:—
“ Madam,—To give you my opinion on the subject of the title of our
Society, I think that it is not in perfect harmony with the end we have
in view.
One of two things—either ■we are Spiritualists or we are not. If we
are, how is it that we have not succeeded in proving our theory
scientifically, and that we still doubt ? If we are not Spiritualists, why
take a title so clearly defined as ours for studies which as yet are quite
undefined ? The fact is that we are “ searching for truth,” and there¬
fore why take a name which supposes an established state of things;
To speak frankly, this dogmatic title began to displease me at the
moment when I first commenced to doubt the existence of spirits. And
to-day, with great regret, I am compelled to ask you to take my name
off the list of the members of your Society. I should be only too glad
to have retained it there if the Society would take a title less dogmatic and
above all less anti-scientific. The phenomena which we study enter into
the domain of biology, and we need another name which will place us
more en rapport with the needs of modern positivism.
If you will allow me to make a further remark, I would say that this
definite title serves only to alienate from us all those scientific men
who, from principle or prejudice, will have nothing to do with the
subject whilst it bears a seemingly religious name. Words have a
mighty influence, and we should gain much by a neutral title more in
accord with the phenomena which we are studying. In conclusion,
kindly state to the council my reason for retiring, and at the same time
thank them for the honour they have accorded me until now in making
me a colleague and member of their Society. At the same time let me
assure you that I am with you in interest, and I shall consider myself
only too happy if I can at any time be of service to you.
You ask me what I think of Theosophy, and if the people of the East
know more in the matter of Spiritualism than those of the West.
Believe me the people of the East cannot be more ignorant than they
are. I was born in the East; I have passed my life among its divers
peoples, whose languages I speak. I have had communication with
dervishes, magicians, and seers. I have taken lessons in Eastern magic.
I have writings and magic formulas, and I assure you that all this is
nothing by the side of European Spiritualism; and that Theosophists will
only lose time by seeking in Asia for the “explanations of phenomena’
which are only to be found in Europe. I have also studied Eastern
Jan. 24, 1879.
47
THE SPIRITUALIST.
antiquities, especially those of the ancient Egyptians; but there also i
there is no science, and it is loss of time to found societies, such as j
the Theosophist and others. I do not know the society called Ary a |
Somaj, but here there are plenty of sects of dervishes, who have their j
secrets (soi-disants), magical and masonic, but the greater part of the
phenomena are merely mesmeric and spiritualistic, very badly observed
and theologically explained ; in a word, there is plenty of superstition !
in the East, and scarcely a single rational spiritual fact.
As a last word, it seems to me that neither the West, and still less :
the East, has done what it should do once for all, namely, get rid of
these different names, Spiritualist, Theosophist, &c., &c. They might i
all be united in one great scientific and biological association, and thus j
study together all the facts, mesmeric, medial, and spiritual, and perhaps |
arrive at some positive solution. Thus we should utilise our scattered j
forces, harmonise with modern science, and save future generations an
immensqamount of labour. In giving you sincerely these free opinions, i
I beg you, madam, to accept my assurances of my high esteem and j
regard for you. C. Constant.
Bmyrna, Deo, 6, 1878,
NOTE AS TO THE PHENOMENON OF BLOODY SWEAT.
“ Blut ist ein gauz besonderer Saft.”—Goethe.
In the Gospel of St. Luke, 22nd chap., v. 44, it is re¬
corded of Jesus thatt( being in an agony he prayed more
earnestly ; and his sweat was, as it were, great drops of blood
falling down to the ground.”
This phenomenon of bloody sweat appears to be con¬
nected with mediumship, and the practice of the occult
powers of the human spirit, for it is related in Baron Wran-
gel’s History of the Russian North Pole Expedition that hi
companion, Matjuschkin, had once a very curious stance
with a Siberian schaman (magician) and his daughter.
When the father began the usual magical operations in order
to induce in himself the somnambulic state of ecstasy, there
suddenly appeared on the face of the daughter a bloody
sweat, such cts generally takes place with the schamans in the
crisis of the ecstasy, and she then fell on the ground insensible.
On this taking place Matjuschkin put the schaman out of
the hut, who then continued his wild ecstatic dances and con¬
torted motions outside in the snow. The daughter then
sprang up, danced about the hut exactly like the schamans,
spoke and sang incomprehensible words, and then fell into
a deep sleep. On awaking from this sleep, she was quite
unconscious of what had occurred.
Matjuschkin, on making inquiries about her, ascertained
that she was so exceedingly sensitive that generally when
present at the performances of a schaman she herself passed
into the ecstatic state, during which she was able to answer
truly questions as to the future, as to distant places, occur¬
rences, and people unknown to her, and to speak and sing
in languages with which she was unacquainted.
This phenomenon of the bloody sweat also occurred in the
case of Dorothea Bisser, an ecstatic and stigmatic, of Gend-
rigen, in the Netherlands. She was born in 1820, was a
Catholic, in her youth very delicate and hysterical, and con¬
tinually increased the severity of her ascetic practices by
means of very fervent prayers (agonia) and strict fasting,
until at length there appeared round her head a bloody circle,
and on her hands, feet, and breast the stigmatic marks ; and
this was accompanied by violent headache and sweating of
blood from various parts of her body. She affirmed that a
white child appeared to her when in a somnambulic state,
and announced to her eight to fourteen days in advance when
the stigmatic marks would commence to bleed.
Dr. Wetscher and the clergyman of the village investigated
this case, taking every precaution against deception even to
sealing up her hands, and affirmed the impossibility of any
fraud.
It would appear from St. Luke’s narrative that Jesus also
during his agony of prayer {agonia, striving or combat), in
the Garden of Gethsemane, had also passed into this ecstatic
condition, and in it was subject to this curious phenomena
of the bloody sweat.
It would be very interesting to have this phenomenon
more accurately observed and scientifically investigated.
A. J. 0.
Lucerne, Switzerland, January, 1879.
Mr. J. William Fletcher’s lectures on “The Religion of Spirit¬
ualism,” at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, London, are
attracting good audiences. His subject next Sunday evening will be
“ Mediumship, and What we Know thereof.”
CONCERT AND PRIVATE THEATRICALS.
Next Tuesday night a private theatrical entertainment and concert
| will take place at 38, Great Russell-street, London. The arrangements
have been made under the supervision of Mrs. Edwin Ellis, and a lively
evening’s amusement is expected. Amateurs and others of considerable
ability will take part in the performances, The proceeds will be devoted
to the aid of the funds of the National Association of Spiritualists,
i Doors open at seven o’clock, when refreshments will be served; the
entertainment will begin at eight. The following is the programme
Overture, “ The Merry Wives of Windsor ” (Nicolai), the Misses
| Withall.
Song, “ Olivia ” (suggested by Goldsmith’s Vicar of Wakefield)
' | (Cotsford Dick), Miss C. Leslie-Younge.
11 Tenor song.
■ Vocal Duett, “Una sera d’amore ” (Oampana), the Misses
| i Beaumont.
) S Pianoforte Solo, Minuet, and Trio (Schubert), Miss Lucie Cobbe,
| R.A.M.
I Song, “ Beloved Old Mill ” (Randigger), Miss Beaumont.
| Song, “ The Little Mountain Lad ” (Roeohel), Miss Blanche
) | Beaumont.
(| Song, “ Darby and Joan” (J. L. Molloy), Miss C. Leslie-Younge.
11 Interval for refreshments.
/1 To conclude with the dramatic performance entitled A Happy
|| Pair. “Constance,” Mrs. Edwin Ellis; “Ferdinand,” Mr. Louis
| Weighton.
(| In Dr. Carter Blake’s letter last week, for applies read apply; for
| Praxis read Praxis; for Fefsler read Fessler; for Pallevicini read
) 1 Pallavicini; for Idealism on Theology read Idealism in Theology; and
11 for laudasunt read laudabunt.
/ j Mr. George A. Sala’s Ghosts.—“ The most unphilosophic of man-
11 kind, I have still so much in common with Samuel Taylor Coleridge,
> j as not to believe in ghosts, for the reason that I have seen so many of
(j them. The number of dead people, for example, that I meet every time
|! I visit the Paris Exhibition is amazing. I bow and raise my hat to them,
) i and am mortified when they do not return my salutation. I run after
( | them, and am in despair when I lose them in the crowd ever gathered
(j round the Tiffany gold and silver ware, or M. Penon’s blue velvet-hung
| j bedroom, or the plaster casts in the Russian department. I meet them
j j face to face, accost them cheerfully, and essay even to clasp the hand of
| j the dear old friend of days gone by, and am bewildered by the icy stare,
) i the contemptuous shrug of the shoulders, or the supercilious Monsieur,
I j vous vous trompez with which my advances are met. Then, with a
! numbness at my heart, I remember that I followed the hearse of one
dear old friend to Kensal-green ten years ago ; that another went down
in the Captain; that another fell at Inkerman. They are all very
dead indeed; and yet, by scores, their apparitions are walking and
talking here in the Champ de Mars. Yet is there a reason less psycho¬
logical than physiological for the delusion under which I have laboured.
There is a limit, I apprehend, to the number of facial types fashioned
by the great modeller, Nature. When the series is exhausted she
| begins to strike a new set of faces from the old dies. Have you ever
| met Titus Oates in an omnibus, or Oliver Cromwell on board a steam¬
boat. Have you ever had Frederick the Great—in modern evening
dress, not in cocked hat and pigtail—for your next neighbour in the
stalls of a theatre ? Have you never—on the Boulevard or in the Old
Bailey, in a passing hansom, or on the platform of a railway station
past which an express train has whirled you—met with yourself, and
turned away with aversion from the pitiful spectacle? ”—Daily Tele¬
graph.
Mr. and Miss Dietz’s Recitations.—On Wednesday, the 15th
inst., Mr. and Miss Dietz gave the first of their third series of recita¬
tions, to be held monthly at Langham Hall, Portland-road, London,
during the season. The attendance, considering that it was the first
evening of the set, and consequently not so well known, was good. The
programme was arranged with a view to obtaining as much change and
variety as possible, though several old favourites, such as “ The Swine¬
herd,” “ The Jumping Frog,” and/* Luke ” still remained, and were as
well received as ever. Among the less known pieces was “The
j Famine,” from Longfellow’s Hiawatha, Miss Dietz’s rendering of which
was eminently satisfactory. She seemed to be thoroughly imbued
| with, and also to impart to her audience, the feeling of intense desola¬
tion, chillness, and gloom that lies in the scene—one of the most power¬
ful in the whole of Hiawatha—and as she told how his wife, the dying
| “Laughing Water,” calls aloud on her husband to come and save her from
her two foes, Famine and Fever, and he, miles and miles away, hears
| that agonised cry, and rushes back half mad with misery to his lonely
; dwelling—home of gladness no longer, changed now into a house of death
—Miss Dietz contrived to touch the hearts of many of her listeners, and to
| | make for the minute, at least, “ Hiawatha’s ” sorrow theirs. Mr. Dietz’s
chef-d'oeuvre of the night was certainly the famous “ Phil Blood’s Leap,”
I which was told as excitingly as ever; and there was, as usual, a great
sense of relief among the audience when “ Phil” was safely landed on the
other side of the chasm over which he had been hanging in so painfully
suggestive a manner. He also gave with good effect a pathetic little
piece called “ Vagabonds,” which, despite of the serio-comic vein in
I which it was written, incited far more to tears than laughter. At the
commencement of the second part Miss Dietz sang two songs, the
111 words by Swinburne, and the music by herself. Of the two, the latter,
! | “Love at Sea,” was the best, both words and music being extremely
i ( I pretty. As the series advances it is to be hoped that the meetings will
11 i be still better attended, and that the public will try, by filling the hall,
! (j to show to Mr. and Miss Dietz that appreciation which they so fully
‘ ^' deserve.
48
THE SPIRIT UALIST.
Jan. 24, 1S7D.
EELIGIOUS TEACHING IN HOSPITALS. j
A graphic description of Three Months in the Paying Ward of a j J
London Hospital has just been published in pamphlet form by Sampson j j
Low and Co. The authoress claims that the details are not exag- ! |
gerated; she sets forth how the patients were kept on an insufficiency ! (
of bad food, and endured other grievances. She also states that when j |
three persons died in the hospital, two of the corpses were sent to the | j
wrong destinations through carelessness. She adds:—
“ Many kind-hearted people visit hospitals, and we had a succession | (
of sympathetic inquirers. One or two of them came regularly, but we j |
never seemed to become intimate with them. Fully appreciating the I)
motive which leads them to the bed of suffering, I should yet like to ] (
ask them if they think that a patient entering a hospital leaves all j (
mental power and interest in the outside world behind ? I would ven- j)
ture to suggest to them that there is, after all, no panacea for suffering j (
more potent than a few fresh thoughts brought into the sick room, and a I j
few matters of general interest discussed. The tones of semi-compas- j)
sionate curiosity with which many inquire into the condition of a patient j (
are simply impertinent and sometimes unbearable. 11
“ It is a little irritating, for example, to ask for a book, to look eagerly j j
forward to the gratification of such a wish, and to receive the Children's i (
Friend, or British Workman, or The Hying Words of Sarah Jones. I ! S
have not a word to say against these productions, but at the same time | (
I would humbly ask if they are supposed to interest a mind tortured by ! j
suffering and probably overwhelmed by anxious thoughts of dearer ones i |
at home ? I, for my part, must honestly admit that I did not derive from j)
them the comfort or instruction my kind visitors evidently anticipated, i)
The good lady, whose heart I am sure was in the right place, an agent j ( I
for the Flower Mission, taxed my patience sorely, by invariably saying | ( j
each time as she presented me with a bunch of flowers mounted upon a j j j
text, ‘ Here is a sweet text! shall I read it to you ? ’ I bore it as long j |
as I could, and then one day quietly remarked, ‘ Thank you, I can I) j
read.’ This, I am happy to say, appeared to satisfy her as to my I) j
capability, for from that time she desisted.
“ A very well educated German lady occupied the bed next mine. I) |
I was amused at her indignation upon an inquiry being addressed to her j) j
by the same amiable visitor, with the addition of these words, ‘ But I j j j
forgot, you do not know the Bible ; you are a German.’ The lady who I) j
had the very Apocalypse at her finger’s ends, looked dangerous, but did i !
not venturi on a reply.
“ One yehng lady, whose visit of hospital inspection did not speak j j
very well for her advisers, asked me in a tone of inquiring sympathy, j j !
* Have you found the Lord?’ Considering that my years certainly 1! J
doubled hers, and that my experience of life has been far deeper than | / j
hers, poor girl! I hope may ever be, T contented myself with asking, | { j
I Where r’ She appeared rather nonplussed, and retired. Another kind j j |
inquirer commenced by asking what my husband was. I said ( Oh, a 11
gentleman.’ She regarded me as if I had been a new species of animal j (
recently imported, and went on to the next bed.
REMARKS OF MISS LIZZIE DOTEN AT THE GRAVE OF I j
DR. GARDNER.
The following touching remarks were made by Miss j j
Lizzie Doten, the American trance medium, after the funeral j i
cortege of the late Mr. H. F. Gardner had arrived at the ! j
Cedar Grove Cemetery :— I j
Dear Friends,—Standing here amid these deepening j j
shadows, with the soft moonlight falling tenderly upon this | j
open grave, we feel that we cannot commit the loved form j 11
to rest without speaking a few earnest words of affectionate j j i
farewell. We ask not for inspiration from the higher j j |
spheres to aid our utterances. The love that is eloquent in j < j
the hearts of those standing here transcends mediation, and i |
is sufficient for its own expression.
Here is represented the love of an only and well-beloved j j
son, together with his chosen partner in life. That son now j) j
stands by the grave of both father and mother, and hence- j \ j
forth he must encounter the rude buffetings of life unaided j |
by their immediate counsel and guidance; yet we may ] j
surely trust that in the deep places of his inner life he may j I
yet recognise their presence and be thereby comforted and ! I
strengthened to do deeds of manly worth, and to act his part j j
in life both wisely and well. , j H
Here, too, is represented the love of a little child bearing | j j
the name of him who has passed before. How often he has j j I
folded this little one like a tender lamb to his bosom, and I j
breathed blessings upon his head. Will love which is j<j
stronger than death and the grave forget its own ? and will I |
not the freed spirit return over the celestial highways to | j j
guide these young and tender feet into the “ ways of plea- j j j
santness and the paths of peace ?” j | ]
Here, too, is the love of an aged woman, the friend and I |
helper of his early years, to whom through gratitude and | !
sincere affection he often gave the tender name of mother. 15 j
And with all these are near relatives and friends, with 1C
I kindly memories and tender, outstretching sympathies and
! tears of sincerest affection.
Out of the hearts, then, of those who knew him best and
| loved him well, let his eulogy be spoken. He was a strong
! and earnest man, firm in purpose, prompt, decided, and
j efficient in execution; and for this he won our admiration.
| He was frank and fearless in the expression of his honest
| convictions, scorning evasions, and pressing hotly to the fore
front of battle when the cause he loved was assailed, and for
| this we honoured him. He was large-hearted, loving, full of
| warm and tender sympathies. His hand was ever open to
| the suffering and needy, and for this we loved him. The
standard of perfection is attained by none; but now that
the strong man is laid low none need fear to do him justice.
If the free spirit still lingers near, we will ask out of our
I deep need that when our hearts are filled with yearnings
| that are unutterable after the good and true, and our souls
| are tossed with a continual unrest to know that we are some-
| thing more than mortal, that then this strong labourer in the
j spiritual vineyard may be permitted to return, in presence
| and with power, and give to our longing souls the perfect
| demonstration of immortality which we so earnestly desire.
When the kindling glory of the morning flushed the
eastern skies, his spiritual vision was unsealed to the light
of the celestial day; and now, when the shadows of evening
are deepening around us, it is meet that we lay this worn
and wasted body down to rest in the kindred elements of
earth. Therefore, free from the clinging selfishness of
human love do we surrender both what he was and is into
the keeping of that mysterious power in which we all ‘i live
and move and have our being.”
Rest thou in peace, with blessings on thy head;
Go to the land where souls immortal dw^ll;
Gone, but not lost—we will not call thee dead—
Father, and friend, and brother, fare thee well.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A paragraph went the round of the newspapers some months ago, to the
effect that several sentries placed on duty successively in the same locality
in England, committed suicide. Can any of our readers send us the
details, and can anybody tell us whether the narrative is true ?
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN TIBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM,
By P. P. Alexander, M.A. ;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by, the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
•Tan. 24, 1879
THE SPIRITUALIST
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.8. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OE THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor oi
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals .were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
mhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. . „ III. „
The Reformer „ IV. „ ■ .
The Thinker. ,. V. ...
Magic Staff. An Autobiography oi A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health . . . . .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harnaonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
. 16 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
.36
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 2 6
• 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 8 0
. 2 6
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . .24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The SpiniTUAiisT Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . ,18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my .Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. ..... .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind!; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
g'anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams. Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three veils. ... .... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
800 fw Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding npon himself to ‘drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,’
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authop and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Oloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Bostor, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate soientifle man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of it priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb-
fonnding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and ‘hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—^Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Hei bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Kane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship ot
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
1 Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPEB.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and nandsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnageipaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C
iii
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),’ on
PSYCHO GRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L,O’Sullivan
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II  From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E> idence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III  From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monek were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Proxessor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of ihe
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship oi Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship ot
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by CharlesDickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peekcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs.  
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals.
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV—Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lncia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burxe.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. ByCarolineA. Burke.
XXXIV. — The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A, Os.on.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI—The Predie don. By Alice Worthington (Ennesf alien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis-
lingbury,
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W.H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for Hd.; or sis copies post free
for 6d.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iv
Jan. 24, 1879.
The trapped medium * or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. “" A 'pafnphlet by' Christian
Reimers. — This brochure' contains a series of illustrationsj
setting forth the: exciting;, adventures of. Professor Molecule;
E.R.S., S.T.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Pr. Protoplaster;
in their investigation''of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an‘'excel-'
lent little book^fpr distribution among vsciqntiflc men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally, A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that' the pamphlet <lisplayg,real:
genius. Price Gd.: post free, eiid;- ' Spiritualist newspaper
branch office,
Lunacy law amendment society,
^ 4, ■'Wine Offiqg-coprt, Fleet-streetl' Office hours, daily
between' H and s (Saturdays,11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
Price 6d.; post free, 7^d.’;foloth,
‘L Prize Essays.' - '
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM upon the SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETr. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G, F. Green, .
Thebe Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
I SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on-the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
L Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
TH E L A-Z Y: L AYS
AND PROS Ef I M A GIN IN G S
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and AmusingiGift-Bobk of Poetical and Prose
Writings,.Grave, and, Gay.
The gilt device on the cover deigned by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.v- -
: ' Contents, t)-
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the' Lazy Author.—2.' The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3.'' The' Song of the ^Pawnbroker.—1. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat iMan.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacab,ac .was Photographed- (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkjsh Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege i’ofi Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the .
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market' Gafdener.—11. “Fast Falls thS Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—IS.’Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Doiible the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbeldiewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18;.The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wohblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblqaws. *
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman;
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
h^pestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thijigofthepast; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are pot too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings .
of our jcommon humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the fuimiest things that has been published; for years. ...
The,'b,6qk?,contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its4 tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The jypbolejaw ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,”, and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something;
like the' same key.’' as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ vnt\\ ah appreciably successful result.”
From TherBristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or anv
of those merry souls who do quite as piuch good in their day and
, generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
> never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
~ “ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s< mind. Itis a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.” ,;
> v Prom The Folkestone News.
I “A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared-in >the-columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such & furore at the time.” IN.B.An
irate member gpthe Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of. Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at the
mattery and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.” t
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free, for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years'Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now. has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived , the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth. *
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
professional mediums. and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
, Mr.'William Crookes, F,R S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiometer, and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family!
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not), they are so few. in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every honsehold, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall he no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do. .
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “No,” and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If
I speak the letters of ihe alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than1
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give wayt o an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more aboutt hem or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results he obtained at the first two'stances
because no medium chances to he present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences. '
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we And verse of
great.'beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’ ' /
From The Graphic.
“ Those who;can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of-the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success..'. .‘To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
hot at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘ a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 5875 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
. “ The Lazy Lays include .many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
. “ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than "gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.” ...
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al.Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”,
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and. easy as himself... . The
poems are ajl characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
. |. The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.. ••. A
gorgeous design upon the cover. . . .If oui readers, wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents. . . . The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses ail while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us ofthe Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself.' Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite,’and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.”
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘How.Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State ot Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAP1ER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IVDirect Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER VLucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction 6f Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others—Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VIMesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro,-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the C’onscipfis or Waking‘State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject niust be "Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—>
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S dritual
World.
CHAPTER VHI: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of i'nrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets’, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle Is identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakineClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism-Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student;—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER' Xll:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis's Experiments -With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, ■ or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Walter
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases 
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XVTrance—Extasis — Oases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions. *
CHAPTER 'XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W AlARN, Are
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
