RkGIS'I k&bd as a Newspaper,
^ X D J0 tr?v>'^L 0^ f $YC fl 01<0CtI d S:I( MCI>rC%.
0lbtst ,|(tfospapr toit^ Spirifxmlism m (?5nai §nMtt4
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON: n, Ave Maria-lahe, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. - PARIS: Kioisque 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille.' LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : -Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Naziouale... LIEGE !,37j Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-streef. SHANGHAI :. Messrs. Kelly & Co, NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue._ BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgome.ry-place, and 18, Exchanger-street.-- CHICAGO Religio-Philosophical Tournal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. ; SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHI/l: gr8, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON :
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 294.—(Vol. xii.—No. 15.)
LONDON: FEIDAY, • APRIL 12, 1878.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Are Spirits in their Normal State when Manifesting? ... 1(59
American Seances Extraordinary   ..   ... 169
A Well-authenticated Case of Double Consciousness.
Translated from “La Religion Laique,” Dec., 1877, by
J. H. GHedstanes   .,. ...  169
Modem Spiritualism and Christianity. By Morel! Theobald 171
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting
of the Council—The Recognition of Mediums not
Tested by the Association   ...   173
Spiritualism at the Universities:—
A Seance at Cambridge. By J. W. Campbell  ...174
A Seance at Oxford.- By St. George W. Stock, M.A 174
Remarkable Physical Manifestations. By T. L. Nichols,
M.D.:—Manifestations in the Absence of Mortal Wit¬
nesses—Matter Passing Through Matter—Professor
Zollner’s Experiment with the Knotted Cord Repeated
in London... ... ... ..." ! ...   ... ...174
Correspondence:—Colonel H. S. Olcott on Recent Criti¬
cisms—Psychical Drawings—Spiritualism in Hull—
The Wail from the Statue of Memnon—The Todas—•
Spiritualism in Ireland—Spiritualism at the Church
of St. Andrew's 176
Ideality and Morals. By J. T. Markley, Author of Stray
Thoughts on Many Themes ; ... ... 179
Paragraph:—Mr. Buskin on Spiritualism and Materialism 180
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual-
stsin allthe English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. P. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed, no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;->His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein): Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.): Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ol
he Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling.
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles.'.(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia): and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Gapucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Ohiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont,
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical. Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Keamey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W, H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great RusseU-street, London, W.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Fsicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23. 
ESSONS in French and Spanish, or English,
-to Foreigners. Translations from the above Languages
also undertaken. Address by letter, Viola, care of Miss
Burke, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
L
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOO 54SBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street
Agenda for April, 1878.
EASTER CLOSING.'
The Offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be closed for the
Easter Holidays on Thursday, 18th inst,, and re-opened on
Monday, 29th inst.
Friday, 5th-
Monday, 8th.-
Tuesday, 9th.-
Wednesday, 10th-
Friday, 19th.-
It tt
Monday, 15th.-
Wednesday, 17 th.-
Tuesday, 20th.-
-Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
-Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m. Paper by Mr. W. Newton on
“Faith versus Knowledge.”
-Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m. Special
Council Meeting to follow. Motion b
Mrs. Lowe.
-Inquirers’ Seance at 8 p.m., Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
-Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Experimental Research Committee,
6.30 p.m.
Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
-Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
House and Offices Committee at 5.30 p.m.
-Inquirers’ Stance at 8 p.m., Mr. Eglinton,
medium.
-General Purposes Committee, at 5 p.m.
W.
at
SEANCES FOR INQUIRERS.
These Stances are now resumed, and will he held during
the present month on Wednesday evenings, except Wednesday,
3rd inst. Tickets can he purchased through Members of the
Association, who can purchase them at the price of 2s. 6d. for
Inquirers, Is. for Members.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The ohjeet of the society is to promote , the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of hooks on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. ’FRANCES, HON. Sec.
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
R EG I T A T I O N S
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
During April and May, on
Wednesday Afternoons at 3 p.m. (beginning April 10th), and
Saturday Evenings at 8.15 p.m. (beginning April 13th).
N.B.—There will he no recitation May 8th.
Tickets may he had at Mitchell’s library, 33, Old Bond- street ; *,
Hayes’s box office, 199, Regent-street; at the Hall; or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of fourteen recitations, one and a half guineas each. Single
tickets—Stalls, 3s.; chairs, 2s. ; balcony, Is.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages.the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting’Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
camagejpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
ASTROLOGY. “ Worth its weight in gold.”
Every adult person living should purchase at one#
“YOUR FUTURE FORETOLD,” a book of 144 pp., cloth, only
2s. 6d. London: Berger, Newcastle-street, and J. Burns ; or
post-free of E. Casael, High-street, Watford, Herts. Instruc¬
tions to purchasers gratis.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER’S, PAM¬
PHLET on Clairvoyance, price 4d. Also on Curative
Mesmerism, price 6d. To he had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-
gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
EDUCATION.—A Graduate of Cambridge,
who is an experienced Tutor, desires a few Boarders to
whom he may impart a superior education. Healthy locality,
comfortable home, <kc. Address, W, Stoddart, B.A., Gwydyr
House, Cambridge.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
II, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February. 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intellieent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Oommuni-
cations as to alleged phenomena are Invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANOIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 8d. Trubner & Co., London.
Now Ready, Price 2s. 6d.,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW
The Spiritualists’ Quarterly, for April.
CONTENTS:—
Editor’s Address.
I.—Ethics of the New Age.
II.—^Experiences of Astrology in India.
III. —Mystical Poetry.
IV. —Modern Materialism.
V.—Dante and Beatrice.
VI.—The Sentiment of Immortality.
VII.—A Stance with Mrs. Marshall.
VIII.—^Pilgrimages in France. No. 1.—To Paray-le-Monial.
IX.—Psycography.
X.—Buddhism and Christianity.
XI.—The Miracle Land.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all tbinars good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”^
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. W. H. Harrison, 38,: Greatt
Russell-street, London, W.C.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SH AVING.
' Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
* ;#R. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S., •
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP .
Is an article'of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing arid agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will Snd it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. O. SQUINTANI & CO
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings,London, E.O.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “ HOW TO PRINT,’*
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.;
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.Oj
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold- and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager. ,
ii
THE SPIKITUALIST.
April 12, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E;, 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.'W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, 'W.
Honywood, Mrs.,32, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Bogers. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaoe, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Covnwall-gardens, Queen's-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “MaJaoaj-,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E,
Da we, N. Fahyan, Portman Chambers, Fortman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Qbersteln-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fltton, R., 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, ShooterVliill. Kent.
Hayle, Thosi.M.p., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss,,20, Delamere-erescent, Westboufrne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-tdrrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton; -,*• '
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Mqltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stalnton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W,
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.TY.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackbealh, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Wlthall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., SO, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq,, F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B, Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A. '
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq,, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S,A.
Mrs.,'Hallock, 64, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr, R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Bel grave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Yasto, Chiaja,.
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, ModHng, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Oochet, Rtie Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Biyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J..Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espirltista Espanola,. Cervantes 84, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republlca Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Scnor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room- and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
A STROLOGrY, a Popular Sketch of
Ajl. Celestial Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J.
Pearce, author of the Weather Guide Book, &c. Price
Is. 6d. Sent post free by the author on receipt of stamps ;
address, 3, Cedars-terrace, Queen's-road, South Lambeth, S.W.
The TEXT BOOK OP ASTROLOGY, by the same author,
is now preparing for publication. Vol. I. will contain the
complete rules, and all tables necessary for calculating Na¬
tivities on the Placidian method. improved by Zadkiel, by
spherical trigonometry (the only reliable and truly seientifle
method). To subscribers the price will be 7s. the first volume.
Intending subscribers will please send their orders to the
author.
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
(fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Heroford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
«f .R. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha aBahdjd Capousson,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa. Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Rlko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstan#s:Esq.,33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassomplerre. 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-OoL P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq,, M.D ., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de i’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion hook to
Poems of the Inner lAfe; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pour tray ed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Golby and RiOH. London : Spirit¬
ualist Office.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 London:—Simpkin, marshall & Go. •
LEAYES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a flrst-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c,, Sue. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 6. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evening's from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above. 
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. Si W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
  S.W. 
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLAGE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes,  
MRS. C. E. BASSETT,
9, OHOBHAM TERRACE, CHOBHAM ROAD, STRATFORD
  LONDON, E,   
Mr.: j.- jv morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Rapa.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St Honord,
Paris.
BW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N. 
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campdeu-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.  
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 40, St. Mary's-terrace, Maida-hill West, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
 London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O,
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes SabGent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird's-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
Volume Tweeve; Number Fifteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 12th, 1878.
ARE SPIRITS IN THEIR NORMAL STATE WHEN
MANIFESTING 1
The narrative about the appearances of a spirit at Mepal,
Cambridgeshire, published in these pages three weeks ago,
set forth how the departed mother of a child dragged him
out of bed almost nightly, so that the boy had to be dressed
in thick flannel that he might not catch cold. The spirit of
the mother was drawn to the child by strong affection, and
it is not easy to suppose that had she been in her normal
state while manifesting, she would have acted so irrationally,
or behaved so like a wild animal. Again, in ordinary
materialisation manifestations through mediums, the person¬
ality of the communicating spirit is so masked and obliterated
by the conditions, that proofs of identity through this channel .
are rare in the extreme.
<c In the visions of the night, when deep sleep falleth
upon man,” it may be that the links between body and soul
are loosened, and that the freed intelligence then manifests
more or less perfectly in the world of spirits. Yet the chains <
binding it to the body are so firm, that a physical ailment,
or a noise in the room, will bring it back to its tenement of
clay. Under these conditions, the suddenly awakened mortal
would not be disinclined to admit that his actions in the
upper world, supposing he had gained temporary access
thereto, were probably of an erratic character.
" Where the treasure is, there will the heart be also,” and
the bridge of love seems to be nearly the only one which
spans with power the chasm between the two worlds. The
'things of time and the things of matter give way before this
strongest of spiritual powers. All the evidence tends to show
that in the world of spirits affection forms the strongest bond
of union, and that no breaking of the law of love is possible
in the higher realms of spiritual existence; such infractions
are of necessity seen only in the lower and self-poisoned
grades of human life.
AMERICAN SEANCES EXTRAORDINARY.
Dr. Rhodes has sent us from Philadelphia a newspaper
account of the detection of a medium of the name of
Gordon, “playing ghost,” and the circumstances are set
forth with much delight by the editor of the journal. All
the heavy blows which Spiritualism has received from im¬
posture by real mediums in America, have been the result of
Spiritualists accepting alleged phenomena as genuine, before
they have been produced off the premises, or out of thecabinets
of the mediums themselves. Yet if anybody had suggested
to enthusiastic Spiritualists in Philadelphia that they must
wait till the phenomena were produced on other pre¬
mises, he would have been almost torn to pieces by his more
weak and inefficient brethren. In England, when two
.mediums some years since were giving seances near the
Marble Arch, and subsequently when two mediums gave
novel seances near Bloomsbury-square, this question was well
argued. Mr. Crookes, Mr. Wallace, and other good observers,
scarcely ever attest new phenomena until they have been
presented several times off the premises of the medium, since
the objections to the facts are otherwise so numerous as to
prevent in most cases their acceptation by the public mind.
Jn England, there is a stronger force of public opinion to
countenance those who wait for perfect demonstration, rather
than accept the first weak evidence which comes to hand, and
Spiritualism in America has had terrible blows because of
carelessness in this matter.
A printed postcard, from Mr. Enmore Jones, announces a meeting
of Spiritualists under his presidency, at Grafton-hall, Grafton-street,
London, next Wednesday, at 7.30 p.m. He requests visitors to bring
hymn-books, so it would appear that some kind of religious service is
intended by him.
I A WELL-AUTHENTICATED CASE OF DOUBLE
CONSCIOUSNESS.
TRANSLATED FROM “.LA RELIGION LAIQUE,” DECEMBER, 1877, BY J. H.
GLEDSTANES.
The inquiry we have commenced embraces all facts capable
of throwing light upon the existence of the soul and the
future life. There is a case to which the scientific world gave
attention for a moment, but as it was not explicable by any
known law of physiology, it was disregarded by medical
science. I do not know but that the academy of Moral and
Political Sciences, whose attention had been called to it, also
made an investigation; if so, it was well worth the trouble,
for the case refutes the metaphysical theories which hitherto
have served as bases for the theory of the immortality of the
soul. The case also disturbs the notion of the Ego, which is
the • foundation of all certainty in our comprehension of
things, for how can I be sure of the existence of objects, if,
in the first instance, I am not sure of my own identity, if I
-cannot assure myself that I am to-day the same person that
I was yesterday, and shall be to-morrow ? This phenomenon
of a double existence, or of two lives, is neither so excep¬
tional nor so novel as one might suppose. Many such
examples are to be found in medical history, and they have
often been seen as the effect of mesmeric treatment; but the
case to which Dr. Azam directed the attention of scientific
men has the great advantage of not having been provoked
by any exterior mesmeric action, which is always suspicious,
but of having been spontaneously and naturally produced,
and observed in all its phases, before all the world by a
perfectly unprejudiced man of undeniable capacity. There
is no doubt as to the reality of the phenomenon. We will
give Dr. Azam’s account of it, abridging it, as it appears in
La Revue Scientifique of May 20th, 1876, edited by Germer
Bailliere:—
“Eelida X. was born in 1843 at Bordeaux, of healthy
parents. Her father, a captain in the merchant service,
died when she was quite young, and her mother, left in
precarious circumstances, was obliged to work for her living.
Felida had been well brought up by her mother, and was
well-informed for one of her social position, which was that
-of a sempstress, obliged to live by the labour of her hands.
At thirteen years of age she exhibited the well-known
symptoms of hysteria, and at fourteen and a half years old
she presented the curious phenomenon of a double per¬
sonality. Of course, she was considered mad, and Dr. Azam,
then doctor of the Public Insane Asylum, was called in to
-treat her. Here is a summary of his observations :—
“Without any known cause, and sometimes under the
! influence of an emotion, Felida would feel a violent pain in the
j temples, when her hands would be observed to let her work
i fall into her lap, and then remain motionless by her side,
j She then became suddenly overcome with a sleep so sound that
I no noise, pinching, or shaking could awaken her. These states
of cataleptic prostration continued for rather a long time at
the commencement of the illness, but at the time Dr. Azam
first made his observations, they lasted only for a few
minutes. At the end of these few minutes, Felida awakes,
but she is no longer the same person; her countenance,
which is, in her normal state, sad and sullen, brightens up,
and wears an expression of joyousness; she resumes her
work, and goes on with her sewing, humming some lively
1 air; whereas before she had been working in a most melan-
| choly frame of mind. When she rises, her gait is lively,
| and she no longer feels the various pains of which she had
| been complaining a short while previously. She occupies
| herself with household matters, goes out, walks about the
j village, and pays visits. Her gaiety is almost boisterous ;
| her character, in short, is completely changed. Her pre-
170
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 12, 1878.
vious indifference to everything is now changed into exces¬
sive sensibility. Now she remembers perfectly all that has
taken place during previous similar states, as well as during
her normal life ; but while in her normal state, she has no
remembrance of what has happened during the attacks. “It
is to be remarked that Felida always maintains that the
state which she is actually in, whichever it may be, is her
normal one, and that the other state, which she is not then
in, is her seizure. Thus, she always declares herself to he
her proper self, without reference to which of the two selves
may be at the time in possession. In this second life, as
well as in the other, her intellectual and moral faculties,
although different, are incontestably complete, and free from
any unsound ideas, false conceptions, or hallucinations of
any kind.
“ I now quote Dr. Azam:—‘ I would even say that while
in this second state all her faculties are fuller and more
developed than in the other. This second life, in which
there is no physical pain, is a superior one in every way.
It is especially so from the important fact already men¬
tioned of Felida?s remembering, all the time it lasts, not
only what happened during the preceding attacks, but also
during her normal life, whereas during her normal life, she
has no remembrance whatever of what transpires during her
attacks. If it had been possible for me to have had any
doubts as to the separation of these two existences, they
would have been removed by what I am going to relate. A
young man of eighteen or twenty years of age had known
Felida from her childhood, and was in the habit of coming
to the house. These young people, having a mutual affec¬
tion for one another, were engaged to be married. One day
Felida, sadder than usual, said to me, with tears in her
eyes, that her malady was increasing, and that every
morning she felt sick. In short, she perfectly described
the symptoms of incipient pregnancy. The disturbed looks
of the bystanders caused me to suspect what was shortly
confirmed; for in an attack that shortly came on, Felida
said to me before these same people—“ I remember perfectly
what I told you; you must easily have understood what was
the matter with me. I confess now, without reserve, that
I believe myself to be enceinte” In this second life her
pregnancy did not trouble her; she did not mind in the least
about it. Having become enceinte during her second life,
she did not know of it in her normal state, only being aware
of it in the other states. This ignorance, however, was not
allowed to continue, for a neighbour who had heard her speak¬
ing so plainly, and who being unreasonably sceptical, was
under the impression that Felida was fooling them, abruptly
told her when she was not in the attack of her confession when
in it. This disclosure made such an impression on the
yoimg girl? that she had a violent attack of hysterics, and I
was obliged to attend her for some hours. The child is six¬
teen years old now (1876). In 1859 I mentioned this case
to several of my colleagues; most of them thought me im¬
posed upon and deluded; three eminent men alone, after
having seen Felida with me, encouraged me to continue my
investigation of this case, namely, Parchappe, the celebrated
mad doctor; Bazin, senior physician of the public mad¬
house for women, and professor of medical science at
Bordeaux; and Gintrac, president of the Medical College of
Bordeaux. For all the other doctors, science was in a state of
finality, and anything extraordinary must he imposture? ”
Observe, it is Dr. Azam who says, for all the others
science was complete. Oh, mandarins, you are indeed all
alike everywhere. You have stopped all progress in China,
you are doing your best to prevent France advancing, and if
you were allowed you would keep the world stationary. Dr.
Azam goes on then to tell us that he lost sight of Felida
after her accouchement, and only found her again sixteen
years afterwards. This gap, however, is filled up by the
observations of Felida’s husband, the father of her child,
whom she had married, and who had carefully noted his
wife’s state during all this time. When seventeen years
and a half old, Felida had her first child, and for the two |
following years her health was excellent, nothing unusual j
occurring; but between the age of nineteen and twenty the j
incidents already mentioned recurred, and the periods of |
the attack, which in 1858 and 1859 had only lasted altogether j
for a tenth of her life, gradually became of longer duration.
j|| They gradually became equally divided with her normal life,
] | and finished by being nearly perpetual. Thus she lived the
(I life of her second self. During the summer of 1874, after
11 some violent emotion, she was taken with what she mis-
[| takenly called her attack, which lasted several months,
11 during which time, as usual, she had no memory of her
| previous state. This was the condition of her first life,
| which we will call Ego I. One day, being in the second
j j condition, now mostly the habitual one, which we will call
! Ego II., Felida was returning from a funeral with some other
11 ladies in a carriage, when, after having fallen asleep without
11 attracting the attention of her companions, she woke up in
| a few minutes in the other state {Ego I.) in complete
ignorance as to why she was sitting in a mourning coach
| in company with people who, as is usual on such occasions,
were expatiating on the good qualities of some one deceased,
but whose name was unknown to her. Not unused to
| similar predicaments, she waited until by skilfully put
( questions she learned what she wanted to know, without
letting it be perceived what had happened to her.
When she lost her sister-in-law while in her second con-
| dition, Ego T. knew nothing about this death. Her two
I children took their first communion while she was in her
( second state, and Ego I. knew nothing about it. At first
Felida was unconscious during the short transition periods
between the two states, but afterwards she was not so.
Gradually, the transition state became shorter and shorter,
and although there was always a complete unconsciousness,
it lasted so short a time that she was able, wherever she
happened to be, to prevent it being noticed. In her second
condition Felida is proud, and more attentive to her dress;
she is less industrious, but seems to have more feeling,
and is more affectionate to her friends. In her normal state
she is hopelessly sad, and sometimes even has a tendency to
suicide. She manifests also an indifference and want of
affection to her friends; she resists the authority of her
husband, and complained of it in the following words to Dr.
Azam, “ He is always saying, I will. That does not suit me.
In my other state, I must have let him get into this habit.
It is most painful to me to feel that I cannot conceal any¬
thing from him; not that I have anything to conceal, but if
I wished I could not, for it is quite evident that in my other
state I tell him everything I think.” It has often happened
that going to sleep in her normal state, in the morning she
awakes in the other one, without either herself or her hus¬
band being cognisant of the change, which thus we see can
take place in her sleep. At the time (1876), when Dr.
Azam published his investigation, the periods of Ego I. only
lasted a few hours in the course of two or three months;
Ego II., finally, almost entirely dominated Felida’s life, taking
the place of the original Ego, which returned only at long
I intervals, so we must admit that there are in Felida two
distinct personalities, two Egos entirely different, occupying
by turns the same organism, like two tenants inhabiting the
same house. If the second personality continues more and
more to usurp the place of the first one, we are entitled to
suppose that the latter will eventually be entirely turned out
of its home. Dr. Azam himself thinks this probable and
thus expresses himself on the subject: “ It will come to pass
that the second state becoming paramount, Felida will have
a complete individuality, with perfect intelligence and entire
j memory of the past, but she will be no longer the same
person she previously had been : she will have lost nothing
by the change ; but, on the contrary, will have gained by it,
inasmuch as there is no loss of memory connected with it;
but the fact remains that she will be another person.”
What do the doctors, the savans, the philosophers say to
this extraordinary case of the alternation of two beings in
the same person ? Nothing 1 or else words void of meaning,
i Dr. Azam himself, after having so well described the facts
! he witnessed, escapes from the consequences of his own
II declaration by calling this a case of loss of memory {amnesie).
! This is no explanation of a well-proved case of a double
I personality and the alternation of two Egos, with the pro-
I gressive substitution of a second personality, which finally
ousts the original one altogether. Another doctor, one of
| our medical celebrities, and what is rare nowadays among
! our eminent practitioners, a Spiritualist philosopher, Dr.
Bouchut, enters upon the question of a dual personality,
April 12, 187& THE SPIRITUALIST. 171
several eases of which he has met with in his practice, but I
without, however, attempting to solve the problem. He
says, “ Medical attention should be directed to the psycho- 1
logical phenomenon of dual personality, as this double con¬
sciousness may be called, since, in the case of these patients,
one finds oneself in the presence of two persons physically
alike but intellectually different. What is wanting here is
the connecting link to maintain the continued identity of
the individual, the real Ego suddenly disappearing to make
way for another Ego, thus making the same envelope contain, |
at different times, two distinct beings separately responsible.”
This is fairly put. The Spiritual theory—did one feel one- |
self entitled to accept it—would furnish an explanation j
simple and clear. The existence around us of spirits, or—
to speak more correctly—of the souls of those who have
ceased to exist materially upon our earth, but who are likely
to come here again in new incarnations, is a hypothesis
which has nothing in it repugnant to reason. It is in ac- j
cordance with the belief in the immortality of the soul, which
is the foundation of all religions and of nearly all philosophies;
it agrees also with the most recent discoveries of science,
which is proving that neither matter nor force can be lost,
shows us life existing everywhere in the universe in an end- I
less cycle of change and transformation. Reason hesitates
to admit the possibility of establishing means of communica- j
tion between those we call dead and ourselves whom we
believe to be living. One can understand that our minds j
should hesitate to admit a fact of such importance. Doubt |
about everything is the commencement of wisdom; but j
reason must not decline to accept what is not contrary to
reason, and science has no right to refuse to examine a |
subject belonging to her domain, presented to her by us, I
who, like herself, deny miracle and the supernatural and
assert our observations to be rigorously based upon experi¬
ment and analysis. Those who in the name of science refuse
to examine our facts are unworthy to represent her. The
savant who turns his back on the light is like the soldier
who turns his back to the enemy, for as Sir William Thom¬
son says, 11 The eternal law of honour calls upon science to
give its attention fearlessly to all problems that are loyally
presented to it.” If I am told that science cannot occupy
itself with what is absurd, I ask what is there absurd (the
immortality of the soul being conceded, which means the
continuation of life after the dissolution of the body) in
admitting the existence of forces common alike to embodied
and disembodied souls and at the disposition of the latter ?
Observed facts seem to prove the existence of these forces,
and the possibility of making uses of them for purposes of
communication between one world and another, when favour¬
able conditions are established and the presence obtained of
certain persons specially endowed, called mesmeric subjects,
psychics, or mediums. If, in these experiments, errors arise,
we must endeavour to rectify them, and employ more
rigorous methods of observation. If imposture is mingled
we must unmask the authors of it. It is really absurd to I
refrain from studying facts certified to be true by a large
number of men as honest and disinterested as they are well- |
informed—facts which concern the most important questions I
of life and which help to solve the greatest of all problems, j
We would add that it is criminal to be guilty of the cowardice j
of waiting to investigate a truth till the time shall arrive j
when it is likely to triumph and to reward its adherents.
May we be permitted, before concluding, to refer for an instant
to our subject, not for the purpose of endeavouring to solve
the problem of the dual life, but to reassure those who fear !
that the principle of unity and personal identity may be j
shaken by these phenomena which are not so rare as are !
generally supposed.
It is not true, as the Materialists would have us believe,
that the Ego is nothing but the result of organic functions
and especially of cerebral action; our Ego is undoubtedly
influenced by our acts and thoughts, and by the entire work¬
ing of our cerebration; and it is the chief factor of our
psychic dynamism of which it remains the ruler so long as j
we remain masters of our reason and in harmonious relation
with our surroundings. Every organised body is made up
of an association of forces put in motion by the soul, which
unites them and places them under the direction of conscious
reason; thus is constituted our Ego, our will, our soul, our •'
| autonomy. If, however, it happens that we are inspired
j or directed by another spirit than our own, whether belong-
| ing to this world or the other, incarnate or disincarnate, it is
I because we have allowed the link that kept our organism
| together to get broken, from a malady brought on by our
| vices or inherited from our parents. Then it becomes out of
I our power to govern ourselves. It may be also that we do
| not exert sufficient will-power, in which case we are in the
j position of a subject under the control of a mesmerist whom
| he has allowed to deprive him of his reasoning powers.
Thus it is, that those alone are possessed who have not
I known how, or who have not sufficiently willed to possess
themselves. In order to be masters of ourselves, either in this
life or in the next, we must not for a moment cease firmly
to will to be so. With time, labour and perseverance, will
| is omnipotent. Charles Fauvety.
MODERN SPIRITUALISM AND CHRISTIANITY *
I
BY MORELL THEOBALD.
That Spiritualistic manifestations and experiences exist, and run
through the whole of the Bible as a golden thread—interwoven and
| incapable of separation from it—need scarcely be asserted in a meeting
| of Spiritualists ; but the attitude which Spiritualism and Christianity
| should relatively assume is a question which needs discussion, as I think
I that Christian Spiritualists may be fortified on their stronger ground
against the undermining assaults of those Spiritualists who make no
profession to discern in Christianity a revelation, nay a life, from our
! Father God.
j My observations to-night will be made to those who recognise in
Christ, not a wonderful medium only, but a unique incarnation of God’s
! contained, as substantially correct.
We gather from them what has been called the miraculous conception
I of our Lord, and receive without misgiving the inauguration of His
| wonderful life in the midst of the ministration of angels.
That we may clearly appreciate the fact of the God-life among us,
and the surrounding circumstances, let us briefly glance at the time, the
| place, and the actual fulfilment of the prophetic yearnings which found
! their answer in Jesus Christ.
Far away over the snowy mountains, and beyond the dark blue sea,
| there is a country whose name is not numbered among the nations of
1 to-day, and whose history must be sought in the records of the past. It
is a land now of ruined cities and deserted sepulchres, and of spots
hallowed by the remembrance of feet that once trod there. About 2,000
years ago there dwelt in that land a people who were different from all
surrounding tribes. Not numerous, nor great, nor powerful; they were
distinct in this—that they possessed a knowledge of the true God. They
j were in reality a peculiar people, whom God had separated for the
! especial purpose of receiving a knowledge of Himself. He had often
| communicated to them by extraordinary means, which we now recog¬
nise as Spiritualistic, and by these means had so imbued their minds
j with the simple expectancy of a great event, that they looked forward
I on the tip-toe of expectation for the coming Messiah. They did not
know how He was to appear, or where He was to come from, but had a
I vague idea only that He was to be a special messenger sent from God,
I aided by His power, and that He was to effect some grand change in
! their Jewish nation.
| Nightly they used to meet, to read together their sacred books; and
| out by the wells of their villages, where they all daily assembled for
conversation and gossip, they talked over this larger hope.
| About this time, out in the wilderness, was a strange-looking man,
wild in his appearance; but he had within him the true spirit of the
old prophets. He must have had a strange fascination in his speech,
for multitudes flocked to listen to him. They followed him from place
| to place, the poor and the rich alike, and his message was this,
i “ Prepare I Prepare for the coming of the King you have been so long
| expecting.”
! As the people returned to their homes, still the burden of their con-
| versation was “ Where is this Jesus ?” Some time before this (at a
I distance) the angels had appeared to some shepherds, and a spirit light
had appeared in the heavens, which led the seekers to the babe. He
was lost sight of for some years; and it was now, the time I have
introduced to you, when John was saying “ Prepare,” that Jesus, as a
i young man, came amongst them.
| And now He comes to where this wild prophet was, in fact, heralding
His approach. He comes to where John was baptising, is baptised by
him, and at once the heavens open and proclaim Him to all as the
promised Messiah. “This is my beloved Son,” said a voice from
| heaven. He could no longer wait. His mission must now begin. Two
| men only followed Him away, and asked where He dwelt. “ Come and
see,” said He; and there, in a humble cottage, He first unfolded to them
who He was, and the three go forth together to begin that wondrous
teaching which is the highest inspiration of our best life to-day. But
soon there are twelve of them in company. Coming to a well, they
leave Him, while they go and buy food, and tfiere, to a woman, He
unfolds Himself, and proves His power and knowledge by telling her of
“ all things that ever she did.” “ Is not this the Christ ?” said she, and
was added to His followers.
* A paper read last week before the Dalstoq Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.
172
$HE SPIRITUALIST. April 12, 187 S.
From the villages He now goes up to the Temple at Jerusalem, and I
in the early morning teaches the people in one of its courts. j
There—in one of the porches—was a strange contrast to the golden |
beauty around them. Sitting on the marble steps was a young man, 11
poorly clad, asking alms. Jesus, who let nothing escape His observation, | (
especially where a kindness was to be done, stopped and looked at him.
Love beamed from His face, but the poor man could not see it; he had j
been born blind. The glorious light was hidden from him, and His
disciples asked a curious question, “ "Who did sin, this man or his j
parents, that he was born blind ?’’ It was neither, but that the power of I
God might be made manifest in him. And that power He proceeded i
to show. Light was restored to the man, and the tunnel darkness j
vanished at Christ’s command. : ■ j j
But again, Jesus and His band, now fast increasing, are out among j j
the hills. He had many lessons to teach, and now see the Master in ! |
His primitive pulpit. There He stands in a boat drawn away from j (
the shore. No sound is heard but the ripple of the water against the ! j
boat side, except that calm, earnest voice, which was now telling them j j
of the future life, gradually opening their eyes, and clothing their dead j (
creeds with new existence, telling them of heaven as a place He knew, | (
not as a speculation, but a certainty ; and seeds are sown which never j j
perish. The music of His voice remains. He finishes His teaching j j
by power—by demonstrating His power over all material things. “ Let 11
down your net,” said He to Simon. “ We have been fishing all night, i)
and caught nothing,’’ said he; “ but at Thy command, which is always i j
obeyed, I will.’’ And, lo ! the bright, sparkling fish are drawn up in j (
such numbers that the net is broken. That was a grand end to j
teaching ; no wonder that multitudes now followed Him. j
It was thus day after day. Over hills and plains might be seen this j |
great multitude moving quietly along from one village to another, j
Now they stop, as Jesus, with loving eyes, sees a poor cripple, and i
bids him be made whole. Now a leper, afar off (for none would let j j
him approach), calls to the Great Healer. “ Jesus,” says the miserably j
afflicted one, “ Thou canst heal.” “ Be thou healed,” said Jesus. ] i
And so one after another, wherever He goes, is made glad. Wherever |
He moves, gladness and hope are left as a trail of glory over the path j
He has trod. I (
No acts or words before or since have had such mighty power. On | [
He and His followers go, gathering as they go; while He feeds them, j
not only with the bread of life, but miraculously making five loaves feed j J
five thousand, yet leaving more to be gathered up in fragments than | [
they began with. Again, coming to the mouth of the grave, at His i
bidding the dead come forth, proving His victory over death, even j
before his subsequent resurrection.
His message was this—love and self-sacrifice are the highest forms of
life possible to manr and to-day we have found no higher, nor ever j
shall. |
Now, in this very simple, hasty sketch (and much more could be
added), it is easy to see how all forms of mediumship culminated in
Jesus Christ; and I think it is as easy to see why He used mediumship
and in such power as had never before been seen. It was to inaugurate j
a new development of religious life; not to cancel the old, as one which |
had not served any good purpose, for He always acknowledged that it j
had; but to bring out from it a new and nobler growth. Spiritualism, i (
as we now call it, was used by Christ as a proof of his authority to j |
teach: He never used it but for some beneficent purpose, and no one i )
has ever used it to such purpose since. j (
Without such an exhibition of marvellous power, such as to associate i
Him even with the God Himself, think you so many multitudes would j)
have believed on Him ? No wonder the scribes and rulers put Him to i
death. To death ? As though they could kill Him, who had the keys i j
of death! It was permitted simply to fulfil his purpose of sacrifice to | H
the uttermost; but the grave could not hold Him. And by many | (j
infallible proofs for forty days He showed His renewed life, and His i | j
union at the end with the heavens about us. ] j \
Such is the basis of Christian faith. Many'creeds have clustered j (I
round it, with which we have nothing to do. Love, and the great |) ]
Fatherhood of God, comprise all I claim as an essential part of j!
Christianity. I rest upon them as upon a rock, and from that stand- ! J |
point I would examine all the curious and multiform beliefs which j)
cluster around us to-day. | (
In this light alone I consent to look at the teachings of Spiritualism, j S
though I would examine into its phenomena and facts as a science, as j)
I would any other science. The science may prove even true, i.e., I ! (
may be led by facts irresistible to give in an unfeigned belief in the j)
spiritual origin of all so-called Spiritualistic facts; but I look upon | (
them only as buttresses outside to testify to the strength of that ! j j
Christian life which ever must be the mainspring of all my beliefs. j > j
It will assist us to come to an accurate estimate of the relationships |)
which subsist between Spiritualism and Christianity, if I now take a j \ j
brief outlook at the state of public opinion, and the various driftings i) j
towards materialism, and a decline in religious belief, which were j)
asserting themselves from all quarters as this marvellous revelation j | i
which we call modem Spiritualism appeared among us. !) J
Thoughtful, and especially thoughtful Christian men, were becoming | ( j
perplexed at the rampant march of atheistic teaching, which was under- j j j
mining all settled convictions respecting religious truth, more especially J) i
truths concerning the immortality of man. J ( •
No doubt the origin of this new phase of thinking was greatly owing, j j j
not to Christianity pure and simple, but to the doctrinal creeds which i) i
had accumulated round the beautiful teachings of Jesus Christ, until I j j
even Christians themselves were bewildered, and were asking, “What i > j
is truth ? ” The idea of hell and future torments had grown, until they j | j
were repulsive to our thoughts, and the living Father had become a m
vindictive tyrant, such as any Christian might well be ashamed of. i j j
Creeds had been manufactured (which many of us were taught in our i (i
childhood), which fenced around the light of Christianity until it was i (i
well-nigh obscured; the literal interpretation of the Scriptures was
insisted upon to such an absurd degree, that any man of culture,
not to say science, almost lost his reverence for them, forgetting that
modern men were claiming more for them than ever did the Scriptures
themselves: and so bitter had become the hostility between various
classes of thinkers, that it is a marvel to me how Christian life sub¬
sisted at all.
No wonder, then, that men of science, seeing the weak pitfalls we
had made for ourselves, widened the breach until a yawning gulf of
infidelity lay open before us.
Now was the time for science to disprove the letter, and thereby kill
the spirit which had so madly espoused it. I need not stop to point
out that these false creeds were no part of Christianity, and in course
of time they would have destroyed themselves.
But science had been so long tabooed (foolishly) by Christian men,
and their thinking had become so inexact, no wonder a new phase of
thinking, diametrically opposed, set in, and we were flooded with litera¬
ture, and our reviews crowded with articles, not only disproving the
inaccuracy of Christian thought, but arguing away immortality, and
placing the idea of a future state among guesses and sentiments. Live
again! asked the men of science! Yes; we see human nature clings
to immortality, we cannot obliterate that; but you shall have an
. immortality which we will create for you. Know this, no good action
can ever die! the good must be immortal; and when you die the
beneficent acts of your life shall enter into a grand spiritual influence,
which shall contribute to elevate the world. Grand idea!!! And poor
Harriet Martineau used to go out at midnight to feel the awfulness
and the grandeur of the silent heavens, until it was so beautiful she
j could be content to exist in the future among the everlasting silences !
And Mr. Frederick Harrison still continues the alluring song, and would
fain have us believe most truly in the glory of a noble life, but most
miserably, as I think, in its greater glory, as it is absorbed into the
essence of good in the great universe when we are no more. Will you
consent that that shall be the end of man—man formed in the image
of God ?
Who trusted God was love indeed,
And love creation’s final law,
Tho’ nature, red in tooth and claw,
With rapine, shrieked against his creed.
No more ? A monster then, a dream,
A discord. Dragons of the time
That lave each other in their slime,
i Were mellow music matched with him.
0 life, as futile then as frail,
0 for thy voice to soothe and bless,
What hope of answer or redress ?
Behind the veil—behind the veil!
Yes; and from behind the veil there came the answer. Those loving
spirits, ministeriug spirits as they are truly called, could be silent no
longer. Their life was a protest to the falsity; the veil shook ; nay, was
rent asunder, and they entered amongst us.
William Howitt has truly said, “ The true mission of Spiritualism
(and it is a great and magnificent mission) is to recall to the knowledge
and restore to the consciousness of mankind, the Christian faith with
all its divine evangels. Its business is to exhibit the reality of its con¬
nexion with God and the angels with the life and spirit of the Divine
word, and to open our earth-dimmed eyes to perceive all the wealth of
celestial wisdom in the Christian revelation. And surely this is enough.
It is a pity he has belied himself, and in a recent number of The
Christian, made sweeping assertions against Spiritualism, which have no
truth. I can fully sympathise with him in his indignation against the
beliefs of many Spiritualists; but they are not essential to Spiritualism
any more than creeds are to Christianity.
In its very first and simplest form, Spiritualism, in its tiny raps,
resounds as if it were the undertaker’s hammer upon the coffin of mate¬
rialism. Once establish the fact that a rap is of spirit origin, and the
whole fabric of materialism crumbles to the dust. But Spiritualists
have claimed more than this; they have claimed for Spiritualism all the
authority of a new revelation, and for its teachings the same authority as
our forefathers in their blindness claimed for the creeds and doctrines
which we awhile ago referred to. Have these Spiritualists forgotten
what we asserted at the outset, that it is no new revelation at all, but
as old as the world ? Have they read history so blindly as not to see
that Spiritualism has always been used to establish truth, and not to
teach it ? We can understand those multitudes who, without having
had previously any settled belief in Christ and his noble teaching, and
who put aside the Divine, and accept not the Holy Scriptures, now cling
to Spiritualism as a glorious truth (which undoubtedly it is), and
imagine that now they have found a sure anchor and a resting-place.
It is a glorious unfolding to them, yearning after immortality, and
groping for it in darkness. But the influx of Spiritualism periodically
has been already anticipated by the Christian; it teaches no new rule
of life whatever, though I admit it gloriously supplements the divine
teaching of the Master, and recalls to the world His life. To all outside
the Christian faith it will act as a hand-maid, bearing an immortal
lamp to light the way to the heavenly path.
But consider for a moment the result of accepting Spiritualism as a
new religion?—as some do. What does it teach ? Its teachings are as
various as its votaries; to one it clamours of reincarnation, to another of
free love, to another of Theosophy (whatever that may be), to another
of Christ: and I frankly confess to you that if Christianity were not to
be found among its teachings, I should suspect it all—as I do much of
it—of coming from the devil.
Then, it’s dangerous ground ? Most assuredly it is, and there is no
safety in its research except by the aid of a prior light.
I say it has been anticipated by the Christian, and he has been
April 12, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST. 173
taught to “ try the spirits ” before he yields allegiance to their [J
teachings. '•**' ' |
But with prayer in the heart, and a trust in God, the great Father J
of Spirits, we need fear no evil; but we shall gather around us those i
nobler intelligences from the spirit world, who can teach us much, 1
minister to our wants, and ennoble our life.
Spiritualism itself belongs rather to the region of science, than to 1
religion. But, inasmuch as all science is, I believe, a handmaid of
God, so I look upon all the avenues of science as leading up to Him.
Does not astronomy? When I consider Thy heavens, and the work of
Thy fingers which Thou hast ordained, what is man that Thou art
mindful of him ?
The undevout astronomer is mad, said one of our poets. And if
the astronomer’s telescope has led us up to the mighty power and
majesty of God, has not the microscope revealed a hidden world where
not only power, but love and care are written 1 So is it, and will it
be, with Spiritualism, earnestly and devoutly followed up. It will
introduce, not to the threshold, but to the very interior, of the spirit
world; it will add fact to faith; it will make certain what is
necessary to ennoble us, viz., the assurance of immortality.
I hail the advent of Spiritualism as a mighty boon to those who
could not walk by faith, and as a glorious confirmation to those more
blessed, who, not having seen, have yet believed.. My own impression
is that Spiritualism will never discover its noblest phases to the out¬
side world ; but its happiest influences will be associated with family
life.
I cannot tell you the sacred thing it has been to me. It seems to
enter into the holiest privacies of our nature; but, as it does so, it
conducts onward, even to the Holy of Holies.
The riven heart which has successively parted with one, two, three
little ones cannot tell a stranger all that was associated with even the
first raps upon his table; much more when the living voice again
called him papa, and stroked his cheek in the darkness.
Those despised raps! Were the raps of those Welsh miners im¬
prisoned in a coal mine despicable which led brave, noble men to toil
on night and day until they fought their way through fifteen or twenty
feet of coal, and wept like children as they gathered their half-dead
comrades again to their embrace 1
Despised! Never! No more will Spiritualists despise the tiny j
little rap upon their table which tells of the nearness of those the
heart weeps for, while it heralds their advent again among us.
To such Spiritualism at first assumes almost the form of a religious
life. But what is religion in its broadest sense ? I think the
definition given by a preacher the truest, who described religion
as “ a sense of utter dependence ”—the weak soul putting forth its
hands to grasp something stronger. If you accept this as a true |
definition of religion, mark how gloriously Catholic it is. The poor j
ignorant heathen feels a want for something to look up to—to cling
to—and he fashioneth a graven image, at which we, in our enlighten¬
ment, may afford a smile—but not one of scorn.
That man is as truly a religious man, aye, more so, than many who
bow to the Ci'oss, or to the name of Jeeus. The Mahommedan, as he
leans upon the prophet, and looks up to God through him, is a true j
worshipper. The Roman Catholic and the Christian are all encircled j
in the same loving cord ; truly a three-fold chord of love !
Now, as we consider all these worshippers, it is easy to see what a |
glorious part Spiritualism has played, and will play again, in leading j
from a dim to a fuller light.
God adopted this means, and used this wonderful weapon, to
disperse the Egyptian darkness, and to lead his Israelitish children |
into the nobler light. By direct writing on stone he gave them their I
commandments; by spirit light he guided them continually, until j
they recognised the Shekinah of His presence. Through years he
sustained the spirit of religion by prophets and seers—and manifesta¬
tions too numerous to mention—until writing with a glory on the wall
of Belshazzar, and until (as we referred to in the outset) he heralded a
wider revelation by his son, Jesus Christ.
Are we to stop here 1 That is, where we are to-day ; but I by no
means say God has said His last word, and uttered His fullest speech
to the world.
As Spiritualism has always inaugurated a fuller life, let us hope
that this modern influx may do the same; but let us not mistake the
means for the end.
Those in our day who are now trying to put Spiritualism into the
place of religion of any kind, whether Christianity, Mahommedanism, or
Buddhism, are, I submit, doing so. It may be only a Jirst mistake,
and they may be led to mount us upon a stepping-stone to higher
life. Such is my conviction they will do. And I predict it with more
confidence when I see Spiritualism gathering into its ranks what I
may not disrespectfully call such a motley crew.
1 am delighted to see it produce inquiry, nay, a new life, among
many who had before no settled belief, and among many who had
also a settled disbelief in all that pertains to what we hold sacred
and most dear.
But, while welcoming these, I look for higher phases and nobler
developments of Spiritualism when men with settled religious con¬
victions prosecute their inquiries at this shrine.
At a seance I attended not long ago was present at my invitation a
learned man who had no belief whatever in a future state. He was, as
all true students should be, open to conviction; he had for months
looked into Spiritualism, but always, as be thought, detected imposture.
Now, raps came plentifully on the table and on his chair, then on his
head ; scents were wafted over the room, which he could see were not
caused by the sitters ; the voice came and reasoned with him, responded
to his curious inquiries (and they were curious and crude), and he had
to give in to facts. In that moment the settled conviction of years was
shattered, and he was introduced to a new life.
| That is the place, then, I assign to Spiritualism—the introducer to a
new life. For a while it may teach, but its teachings must ever lead
upward and onward, and, as the ultimate appeal of all teaching must
be to the reason, it must decide whether it will be satisfied with leaning
| upon spirits, however lofty, when a Mightier One is here.
Allow me, in conclusion, to quote from a spirit message or two on
| this very point. The first is a direct spirit writing, which commenced
with a Latin quotation, and was given by John Locke ; and in reading
| John Locke’s life, you will be interested to find he was years ago greatly
interested in spiritual manifestations and kindred topics.
The message (or, I should say, a part of it only) was this :—
“ When, by reading or study, you find yourselves thoroughly con¬
vinced of the truth of any article, and of the reasonableness of your
belief in it, you should never suffer yourselves to call it into question.
You may perhaps forget the arguments which occasioned your convic¬
tions, but you ought to remember the strength they had with you, and
therefore still retain the conviction which they once produced. This is
no more than you do in every common art or science. It is in this
j manner the mathematician proceeds upon propositions which he has once
| demonstrated, and though the demonstration may have slipped from
] his memory, he builds upon the truth ; he knows it was demonstrated,
i There is nothing which strengthens faith more than morality; faith and
i morality naturally produce each other. A man of sound reason cannot
forbear closing with religion upon an impartial examination of it, but,
i at the same time, it is certain that faith is kept alive, and gathers
i strength from practice more than from speculation.... The devout
man does not only believe, but feels there is a Deity. He has actual
sensations of Him. His experiences concur with his reason.”
If I have made clear my case before you to-night, it is this. That
Christianity, pure and simple, is the highest revelation and the noblest
life to which we can at present attain. It is God’s last word, which
| was introduced by His Son Jesus Christ. Spiritualism was used by
i Him in its inauguration, and is being used now to recall attention to it,
and to rebuke the materialism which is now rife, but which is a natural
outcome of antiquated creeds which are now in process of decay.
Christianity will survive the ordeal, and Spiritualism is one of the
1 handmaids now being employed for that purpose. Whether Spirit-
j ualism will introduce a yet higher revelation I do neither affirm nor
| deny, but I am anxious for you to see clearly the relationship which I
| assign to the two.
If my arguments prevail, stand upon your present faith as upon a
I rock, and when by study and careful thought you are convinced, accept
the Spirit’s advice not again to call the settled belief into question.
| Had I not done this, years ago, I should have given up Spiritualism
j and all further research into it. Convinced as I might be of its truth
I as a science, it was unsatisfactory to me as a resting-place. Spiritualism
j is a handmaid, and bears in her hand light from the eternities by which
| we may decipher many dark or well-nigh obliterated traces of ancient
life; and as she becomes purified and detached from claims which
I belong not to her, so will she inaugurate a new era of more earnest
j thought, more settled belief—possibly, even a loftier life.
Our little systems have their day—
They have their day, and cea'se to be ;
They are but broken lights of Thee,
And Thou, 0 Lord, art more than they.
Let knowledge grow from more to more,
But more of reverence in us dwell—
That mind and soul, according well,
May make one music as before,
But vaster.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
La.st Tuesday night, at the ordinary monthly meeting of the Council
of the British National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great
Russell-street, London, Mr. Alexander Calder, President, occupied the
chair. The other members present were Mr. Morell Theobald; Mr.
I Stainton-Moses, M.A.; Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E. ; Mrs.
| Maltby; Mr. C. C. Massey; Herr Christian Reimers; Mrs. Fitz¬
Gerald ; Mr. Dawson Rogers; Miss Withall; Miss Houghton; Mr. R.
j Pearce ; and Mr. E. T. Bennett.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
| Three new ordinary members were elected. There were no resig¬
nations.
| Mr. Morell Theobald read the report of the Finance Committee,
| which set forth that the Association had £152 11s. 8d. in hand. It
] recommended payments, including rent, to the extent of £88 8s. lid.
It estimated the outstanding liabilities at £5; and said that £34 had
| been received since the report had been drawn up.
The following letter from Mr. Eglinton was then read:—
THE RECOGNITION OF MEDIUMS NOT TESTED BY THE ASSOCIATION.
To the Council of the National Association of Spiritualists.
j Ladies and Gentlemen,—I wish, most respectfully, to call yout attention
i to the existing state of the monthly agenda of your Association in its rela¬
tionship to mediums. For some time past a whole list of the professional
i mediums now residing in London has been published in the agenda, con¬
cluding with a notice that “ the Association offers no guarantee whatever to
II any of the mediums above-named,” or words to that effect. This, I cannot
help thinking, is scarcely fair to those mediums who have placed themselves
j under your care, and who have been repeatedly tested by committees, who
,! have proved their perfect honesty and good faith. And yet, in face of this,
I j your Association sends forth to its members a statement that it cannot
j guarantee its own mediums, placing, in the same category, those mediums of
II whom the Association knows nothing, and who have never submitted their
174
THE SPIklTtiALISfr.
April 12, 1878.
powers to a critical committee. I, therefore, respectfully beg to suggest
. some alteration in the existing agenda, that, if the Association cannot offer
any guarantee as to any medium, it can, at least, state that one or two
mediums have been repeatedly tested under their auspices and found perfectly
honest. If the Council cannot come to any determination upon this subject,
I must beg that they will leave my name out altogether in a list which, in its
present condition, is so unfair to the one or two mediums who have ever
willingly offered to guarantee their good faith. W. Eglinton.
32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, London, April 7tli, 1878.
The Chairman remarked that the Association did not guarantee the
members of the Council.
Mr. Morell Theobald said that the facts certainly seemed rather
hard upon Mr. Eglinton.
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that the question would come up again oyer
the report of the General Purposes Committee.
Miss Kislingbury, Secretary, read her suggested u Report of the
Council.”
It was resolved, that the proposed report be printed, and a copy given
to any member of the Council who applied for one.
Tuesday, May 28th, was fixed as the day for the general annual
meeting of the British National Association of Spiritualists. Time—
6.30 p.m.
It was unanimously resolved that the subscription for the full
privileges of the Association to new members be £2 2s. per annum;
that any other member of the family of a £2 2s. subscriber should be
admitted to all privileges for 5s. per annum; and that membership, with
voting power, but without the use of the rooms and library, should still
be attainable as heretofore, by a minimum payment of 5s. a year.
Mr. Stainton-Moses announced that about £70 had been contributed
towards the £150 required this year, because of the expiration of the
Guarantee Fund.
It was resolved that the agenda should henceforth be entitled The
Proceedings of the National Association of Spiritualists, and its issue
continued. A modification of the present way of printing in the agenda
the addresses of alleged mediums recognised by the Association, was
adopted at the suggestion of Mr. Fitz-Gerald, to meet Mr. Eglinton’s
objections.
The proceedings then closed.
SpiutMlistn at tje Sinibernttes.
A SEANCE AT CAMBRIDGE.
BT J. W. CAMPBELL.
A seance was held here on Thursday evening, March 21st.
There were in all eleven persons present, of whom eight
were undergraduates. Mr. Eglinton was the medium. An
electric bell was fixed on the wall, a yard from the medium’s
seat, one wire being connected with the bell; the other hung
over a nail fixed in the wall within about a foot of the bell
itself. After sitting for half an hour or more, faint raps
were heard on the floor, and places were arranged by
“Joey,” the medium being tightly held by two under¬
graduates, one on either hand, they also resting their knees
against his. The light was then extinguished, and in about *
a quarter of an hour the medium was controlled by “ Daisy,”
who told us to be very careful about conditions, especially
the holding of hands, and presently “ Joey” greeted us in his
pleasant little voice. He then rang the electric bell violently,
took it up and carried it about for a few seconds in the air,
ringing it at intervals, thus showing that he held bell and
connecting wire in his two hands. He then laid it on the
table, tapped out a little tune with it, still ringing the bell,
and answered several questions upon it. Afterwards, he took
it off the table, and laid it on the mantle-piece, below the
nail from which he had at first taken it. A very heavy
musical box was next wound up, and placed on the heads
of several sitters; bells, tambourines, and tubes moved about
freely, and spirit hands were felt by several of the sitters,
“Joey,” out of gratitude to the one who had brought the
bell, patting him on the head, hands and knees, again
and again. Both “Joey” and “Ernest” spoke to us
several times. Then a heavy sofa-cushion was taken from
the corner of the room behind the medium, and laid across
the table on the hands of those sitting opposite; the fender
was taken out and placed up against the table, between two
of the sitters; the sofa was turned over, four chairs were
taken away, including the medium’s, and one was laid on
the top of the sofa-cushion on the table. The sitting was
most convincing and satisfactory to those present. It ended
shortly after ten, the actual manifestations having lasted
under forty minutes.
10, King’s-parade, Cambridge, Thursday, April 4th, 1878.
We, the undersigned, do solemnly, on our word of honour,
declare that the hands of Mr. Eglinton were firmly held by
us, and that our knees rested against his during the whole
of the stance held at 10, King’s-parade, on Thursday,
March 21st, 1878.
A. Hunter, Jesus College.
A. Kei«htley, Pemb. Coll.
A SEANCE AT OXFORD.
BY ST. GEOKGE W. STOCK, M.A.
On Wednesday, March 6th, Mr. Williams came down from
London to give a seance at my house. We had a party of
eight, including the medium. Manifestations began almost
as soon as the light was put out. Some flowers which
were in a glass vase on the table were taken out and strewed
all round, and finally the water was upset out of the vase.
Three of the sitters nearest the medium were frequently
touched, sometimes, as they declared, by hands. The four
others received very little attention, but once a roll of brown
paper, which we had made up for a speaking-tube, was thrust
into my face and then passed on and touched my wife on
the head. One of the sitters remonstrating at the lack of
attention shown him, said, “ Come round here, Peter,” and
a tiny, childish voice, quite away from the medium, im¬
mediately answered, “ Me turn.” After that we heard Peter’s
voice at intervals during the evening; though it was very
difficult to catch what he said; and it hardly needs stating
that he said nothing worth catching. A hand-bell, which
we had placed on the table, was taken up at our request and
rung through the air. It was then thrown down in front
of the gentleman who held Mr. Williams’ right hand. We
asked to have it brought over to my wife; but though
several attempts were made to move it, none of them were
successful. Some of the company saw lights now and then
which were invisible to me. After an unusual lull in the pro¬
ceedings, the gentleman who held Mr. Williams’ right hand
began to complain of a loss of power in his left arm just
above the wrist. No sooner had he said the words than a
sudden noise was heard caused by the medium’s chair strik¬
ing the piano; and medium, chair and all, were discovered to
be on the table. Shortly after this, Peter bade us all “ Good¬
night,” and we lighted up. The hind legs of the chair were
exactly on the edge of the table, and the medium’s head just
escaped breaking the globe of the gas. Mr. Williams seemed
to be in a trance when he was lifted on to the table. The
gentleman retained his hold on the medium all the time,
but the sudden pull made the lady on his left leave go.
Before the seance^ Mr. Williams remarked to me that we
ought to have a spare chair in the room, no doubt anticipating
the phenomenon of levitation, which is a common one at his
stances. During an interval, when the gas was lighted, I
pointed out to him a wicker chair behind me in response to
a repetition of the same remark, but he said it was out of
the radius of the influence. It is important to ascertain
the exact relationship between the medium’s mind and the
manifestations. Did Mr. Williams’ desire for the extra
chair on this occasion indicate only a general probability or
a particular expectation? Only mediums themselves can
enlighten us on such points. A most valuable contribution
to the philosophy of Spiritualism would be a “ True History
of a Medium’s Mind.”
8, Museum Villas, Oxford, Sunday, April 7,1878.
REMARKABLE PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
BY T. L. NICHOLS, M.D.
MANIFESTATIONS IN THE ABSENCE OF MORTAL WITNESSES—MATTER PASSING-
THROUGH MATTER—PROFESSOR ZOLLNER’S EXPERIMENT WITH THE KNOTTED
CORD REPEATED IN LONDON.
It may seem tiresome to you to repeat facts and cumulate
evidence, but this appears to be the only way to convince
the sceptical. Then you are to consider that each number
of The Spiritualist falls into the hands of some who have
seen no other. So I give you some facts new to me,
though they may be familiar to you and most of your
readers.
Busy at my writing the other day in my study, at about
two p.m., the housekeeper came with her eyes “ round ”
with wonder, and begged me to go instantly to the drawing¬
room over my head. It seemed an urgent case, and I ran
upstairs and found every chair but three turned upside
down; the large and heavy sofa lying forward in the room
April 12, 1878.
H E SPIRITUALISE.
175
legs upward, and the upright pianoforte prone upon the
carpet, flat upon its face.
The windows are sixteen feet from the ground; no person
in the house had visited the room that morning; no one
could by any possibility have come in from the street to do
this work, and it certainly was not done by any of the
inmates of the house. At my desk I can hear every foot¬
step in the drawing-room. In a word, it is certain that no
visible being had done it. It required two strong men to
lift up the pianoforte and restore it to its proper position.
The bouleversement seems to have been accomplished while
most of the family were at lunch, between one and two
o’clock; with them were Mr. W. Eglinton and Mr. A. Colman.
Mrs. Nichols was with them at table, and reports that as
they were conversing, loud raps responded, and the heavy
table loaded with dishes, when no one touched it, rose up
some inches from the floor, and so remained while she
stooped down to see that all its feet were in the air. This is
common enough in the presence of mediums, but the very
powerful action in the drawing-room, in the light of mid-day,
with no person near, seems to me novel and remarkable.
I gave you some account, I think, of chairs being
11 threaded ” on the arms of persons while they were firmly
holding the hands of others. This is as great a wonder as
that reported by the German astronomer at Leipzig—the
tying of knots in a cord, the ends of which were sealed to¬
gether. I have seen the chairs on the arms of seven persons,
whose word I could perfectly trust, but I wished to make
assurance doubly sure; so at a recent seance I tied the two
wrists together with cotton-thread. In three seconds the
chair was hanging upon the arm of one, and I found the
thread unbroken. I then held the hand of Mr. Eglinton
as firmly as possible in mine, and in an instant the chair,
one of our cane bottoms with bent backs, was hanging on my
arm. This, beyond all doubt, was matter passing through
matter, but whether the wood passed through flesh and bone,
or flesh and bone through wood, I have not yet been able to
determine.
On Saturday, by special appointment, four of us sat at
noon, Eglinton, Colman, Mrs. Nichols, and myself. Suppos¬
ing there might be writing or drawing, I laid a sheet of
marked note paper and pencil on the table, around which we
sat It is a small room, and, sitting in a good light, we heard
a slight noise of something moving, of light raps or knocks
in one corner. Looking, we all saw a light cane-bottom
chair about six feet from the table, tilting itself upon two legs,
rocking backward and forward, tilting back and balancing
on its hinder legs, answering our questions with its move¬
ments ; and finally, at our request, it walked forward on two
of its legs and placed itself at the table, pressed against
my knee caressingly, and behaved in all respects like a
chair gifted with sense and locomotion. It was a weird
spectacle. But it was also a very interesting fact, seen for
ten or fifteen minutes, by four persons, without the possi¬
bility of trick or hallucination. I examined the chair care¬
fully, though it was quite needless to do so, for no conceiv¬
able machinery could, under the circumstances, have pro¬
duced the phenomenon.
Then the light was turned off for a minute or so, during
which we heard rapid movements of a pencil, and on relight¬
ing the gas, we found on the marked sheet of paper the por¬
trait of a deceased friend, and a letter of more than a page
in the well-known handwriting of a beloved child whose
spirit often visits us. I have now from her hand five ela¬
borate drawings and four letters, no one of which occupied
two minutes under absolute test conditions. No living artist
could make them in from ten to twenty times the time occu¬
pied in their production.
Your readers may be glad to know that, on the night of
April 7th, we had repeated, in my house, in the presence of
six persons, including Mr. W. Eglinton and Mr. A. Colman,
Prof. Zolner’s marvel of tying knots in a cord, the ends of
which were tied and sealed together. I have the sealed cord,
which I prepared myself, with the knotted ends firmly
sealed to my card, on which the fingers of every person pre¬
sent rested while five knots were tied, about a foot apart, in
the central portion of the cord. I have no doubt that this
splendid manifestation can be repeated at any time under
like conditions.
OTormponlrence.
[Sreatjreedtom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.}
i
COLONEL H. S. OLCQTT ON RECENT CRITICISMS—PSYCHICAL DRAWINGS.
Sir,—When Theosophists were invited to discuss the phenomena
and philosophy of mediumship, I supposed that that was the paramount
object in view. This conviction was strengthened by our hospitable
reception in .the columns of the organ of educated British Spiritualists.
What we had to say was courteously given space, and, to our great
satisfaction, the critics whom we found arrayed against us were the
best of their wranglers. Having myself been what may properly be
termed an orthodox Spiritualist for a quarter of a century, familiar with
most forms of the phenomena, an observer of mediums, acquainted with
the notions of leading writers upon Spiritualism and the personal friend
of some, I was measurably qualified to comprehend the meaning of our
opponents, and enter into sympathy with their motives. Their ideas
had long been my ideas, their difficulties in accepting new ones identical
with those which presented themselves to my mind when the Eastern
notions of psychological phenomena were first explained to me.
The substantive issue between Theosophists and Spiritualists, as we
understood it, was whether the transmission of intelligence through
mediums, and the occurrence of verifiable physical phenomena, were
primd facie proof of the agency of our deceased friends. I aim to be
brief, but I think this phrase about defines the matter. Mediumism
accepted as a fact, the transmission of intelligence conceded, the
occurrence of psycho-physiological phenomena, not explicable on the
theory of fraud, our debate was narrowed down to nature of the intelli¬
gence. And yet in this was embraced the All; in this speck, the
Kosmos.
As far back as 1854, when the leading Spiritualists of New York
thought it expedient to inaugurate a series of Sunday meetings for the
purpose of instructing the public about the phenomena, a meeting was
called at the office of the Spiritual Telegraph, and a board of trustees
chosen to collect subscriptions, invite speakers, and “ take the whole
management of the meetings.” The trustees were nominated as persons
“ who entertain, or are supposed to entertain, different views upon the
subject of Spiritualism.” Of these trustees Hr. It. T. Hallockwas one,
and I another. There were two preambles adopted with the resolution
to elect the board, the second of which recited that, since the great
diversity of “human temperaments, intellectual developments, and
spiritual experiences, tend to different conclusions upon spiritual as well
as temporal things,” it was becoming in “ seekers after truth to bear
and forbear, and patiently hearken to the reasons of another’s faith.”
The shade of opinion that I was supposed to represent was that not
only mediumship, but its fruits, should be tried by the inexorable
standard of utility: what promised to be beneficial, either to the indi¬
vidual or to society, should be encouraged, all else discountenanced.
This idea was fully discussed by me in the Telegraph. And as the same
divergence of opinion respecting the phenomena still exists, we imagined
that the debate was still open.
Upon examination, I find that the issue of The Spiritualist for
March 1st, 1878, bears the serial number 288, the journal being in its
eleventh volume; its sub-title is “Journal of Psychological Science.”
It therefore appears that to the discussion of psychological science this
publication has devoted nearly three thousand five hundred pages since
its foundation. How natural for American students of this subject to
take as a matter of course that what they should say, if grammatically
and decently expressed, would be welcomed as lending fresh interest to
an old theme ? What wonder that we should have attributed the polite
attention we actually received to a genuine wish to learn what else than
had been said was to be said upon this theme ? Or, that we should
have rejoiced to find ourselves spared the necessity to establish an organ
of our own, when so admirably edited and high-toned a journal as The
Spiritualist was in existence ? Let our surprise then be imagined at
finding ourselves bowed politely out of court by the editor, and favoured
by certain contributors with epithets that would not be out of place in
the mouths of William Eddy’s band of vituperative angels.
Debate upon my “ Views of the Theosophists ’’ paper, in The Spirit¬
ualist of December 7, including all of the articles on both sides, and the
paper itself, measures less than sixty-four columns—not much when
compared with the 6,888 columns that have previously appeared in the
paper—but our welcome is already worn out. “Welcome the coming,
speed the parting, guest ”—the old legend seemed written in invisible
ink, as a headline over every page of the number for March 1. Well,
if so it must be, we will e’en trudge along the dusty road that leads
up-hill, leaving you our corporate and individual blessings for what
you have done for us. “ It is now high time to cease endless and profit¬
less talk about matters of doctrine,” says the editor, in a leading article
upon “ Unproved Speculations.” Profitless talk; unproved specula¬
tions 1 Now, pray, to what profit has been all this talk since 1848, if,
after witnessing millions of phenomena, we find that they may be, or
that there is, very strong probability that they may be accounted for on
another hypothesis than that hitherto accepted ? And whose specula¬
tions, when we come right to the point, are more unproved than those
that have been current among us these thirty years ? Translated into
plain English, the editor’s rap at us Theosophists would read thus :—
“ We have plenty of phenomena to amuse and startle us; a pretty and
captivating theory of essential immortality with the necessary corollary
of inevitable progression upward; inspired poets to sing to us; Oxford
and Cambridge men to dogmatise for us; the priceless consolation of
feeling that our sainted dead are near us, to guard, to counsel, strengthen,
and to warn—leave us alone! You are intruders, obstructionists, word-
choppers. We do not want to be told what your countless generations
of sages believed or taught; nor to undergo the self-discipline you say
176
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 12, 1878.
is a pre-requisite to adeptship. There are phenomena in India, Thibet,
and Egypt, no doubt; but the Thaumaturgists are all mediums, as
were Gantawa, Buddha, Jesus, Apollonius, Porphyry, Plotinus, and
every other wonder-worker in history. If you have anything to show
us in the way of phenomena, show it or shut up ; but we warn you in
advance that your phenomena will be those of mediumship, and that
we denounce and metaphorically sit upon your Eastern doctrine of
potential immortality I’’
That is about the meaning of what has been written by our oppo¬
nents in The Spiritualist—l&x. Harrison, “ M.A. (Oxon),” “ Scrutator,”
‘‘M.A. (Cantab),” and all the rest. “None of your doctrines, gentle¬
men,” they say, “ we want facts. G-radgrind for ever!” And we
answer that if the dogmas of Spiritualism are not on trial; if our pro¬
fane hands may not touch this ark of the covenant; if cycles of human
experience weigh nothing as compared with the undemonstrable theories
of one generation, then we move the previous question and close the
debate. Time enough for us to describe our phenomena when those of
the circles have been satisfactorily explained: the burden of proof lies
with Spiritualists, not with us.
Grant that the language quoted by Mr. Harrison in his leader of
March 1st was used in the inaugural address of the President of the
Theosophical Society, what then ? It may have been in questionable
taste for me to use it, but no one familiar with'what had been passing
in American Spiritualistic journals, could blame us for making some
retort. I am no passive non-resistant. If I have an opinion I am
always ready to fight for it, and return blow for blow. Madame
Blavatsky and I were even charged with being in the employ of the
Jesuits to break up Spiritualism—we who have crossed swords, every¬
where and always, with Christian theologians; who ask no quarter, nor
give any to them; who would see Christianity replaced by that Oriental
religious philosophy from whose maternal bosom it drew the very
nourishment upon which it has existed for almost nineteen centuries!
I said—and I would not obliterate a word now—that if Mr. Felt made
objective to the public, by his chemical vapours, the spirits of the
elements, it would be a sorry day for dogmatic Spiritualists, as for
physicists and the Christian clergy. Whether Mr. Felt did this
privately or not, is nobody’s business outside our society, but it is within
the knowledge of witnesses, myself included, that there are such beings,
that they can produce the phenomena of mediumism, and can be made
objective to the senses. My statement is not proof, but it is all that
will be furnished at the moment; and, as I see the situation, even that
is superfluous, since it is the philosophy of Spiritualism which is on its
defence, not the views of the Theosophists.
To “ M.A. (Oxon)’s ” demand for our seers and our phenomena, I
referred him to those Eastern countries where both may be found by
every earnest and courageous inquirer. Am I unreasonable? Then
why not demand that a peak of the Himalayas shall be brought to Great
Russell-street, or Jacolliot’s Covindasamy be put into the Psychological
Society’s hall, before you will believe that the mountains exist, or the
fakir’s power to produce marvels is a verity. We must take the testi¬
mony of our fellow-men upon every physical fact not witnessed by
ourselves, and I always found my fellow Spiritualists disposed (and very
justly) to denounce scientists for not crediting the cumulative testimony
of so many thousands as to the reality of the medial phenomena,
whatever they might think as to their source. But there was a time
when none but the inmates of a very obscure hamlet in New York State
had had the smallest proof that such things could happen. How did the
general public learn the truth ? By going to the place where the mediums
were, and personally witnessing the manifestations. So, now, we
Theosophists tell Spiritualists, who have no love for anything but facts,
to go to the East, .and see things even more wonderful than medium’s
show, done in utter violation of all recognised medial conditions.
I have said not what I had hoped, first and last, to say, but as much
as the limits of the time and space granted allow. In parting from the
numerous, and, with a few exceptions, respected public of The Spirit¬
ualist, we do so without anger, and with sincere regret that there is not
room for us in The Spiritualist’s family pew. If it had been incumbent
upon us to give our facts, believe me there would have been no lack of
material. We are not of the kind to build fortifications and give battle
on shifting sands. What we know we know, and that experience is our
private property; our criticisms upon the alleged agency of pure disem¬
bodied spirits in producing the modern phenomena, are entirely
amenable to the review of our antagonist. Nevertheless, there have been
proofs of the potencies of the will given to various persons not within
our society. Among many equally convincing, I will,_in parting, cite the
following:—
On an evening in December last, we had dining with us, at the
“ Lamasery,” a French physician, Dr. Marquette, and Mr. W. Q.
Judge, of the New York bar, and, until recently, associated in practice
with a gentleman who was successively United States’ District Attorney
and Counsel to the Corporation of New York. Returning to the library
after dinner, an illustration of the power of the will to imprint a per¬
manent tint upon paper, the reflector of the adept’s thought, was
vouchsafed us by Madame Blavatsky, Taking a half sheet of my note-
paper from my desk, she asked Mr. Judge to name a subject, which he
did. She laid her hand, palm downward, upon the page, rubbed the paper
with it a few times, and—there was the picture Mr. Judge desired—the
portrait of a Hindu ascetic. I had seen a hundred experiments of this
sort, but this was almost a novelty to the other witnesses. Let them
give their own version of the occurrence:
City and County of New York, U.S.
William Q. Judge being duly sworn says, that he is an attorney and
counsellor at law, practising at the bar of the State of New York ; that he was
present at the house of Madame H. P. Blavatsky, at No.. 302 West 47th
Street, New York City, on one occasion in the month of December, 1877,
when a discussion was being held upon the subject of Eastern magic, especially
upon the power of an adept to produce phenomena by an exercise of the will,
Ij equalling or surpassing those of mediumship. To illustrate the subject as she
| had often done in deponent’s presence previously by other experiments,
I Madame Blavatsky, without preparation, and in full light, and in the presence
| and sight of deponent, Col. Olcott, and Dr. L. M. Marquette, tore a sheet of
i common writing paper in two and asked us the subject we would have
| represented. Deponent named the portrait of a certain very holy man in
I India. Thereupon laying the paper upon the table, Mme. Blavatsky placed
i the palm of her hand upon it, and after rubbing the paper a few times
j (occupying less than a minute) with a circular motion, lifted her hand and
| gave deponent the paper , for inspection. Upon the previously white surface
there was a most remarkable and striking picture of an Indian fakir, repre-
senting him as if in contemplation. Deponent has frequently seen it since,
and it is now in possession of Col. Olcott. Deponent positively avers that the
| blank paper first taken was the paper on which the picture appeared, and that
I no substitution of another paper was made or was possible,
j William Q. Judge.
i Subscribed and sworn to before me this 20th day of March, 1878",
Samuel Y. Skeyek, Notary Public, New York County.
i State of New YorTc, 1
; City and Cov/nty of New Yorl\ j ss‘
i I, Henry A. Qumbleton, Clerk of the City and County of New York, and also Clerk of the
| Supreme Court for the said City and County, being a Court of record, do hereby certify,
that Samuel Y. Speyer, before whom the annexed deposition was taken, was, at the
time of taking the same, a Notary Public of New York, dwelling in said City and County,
duly appointed and sworn and authorized to administer oaths to be used in any Court
in said State, and for general purposes ; and that his signature thereto is genuine, as I
verily believe.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and affixed the Seal of the said
Court and County, the 20th day of March, 1878.
Henry A. Gumbleton, Clerk.
The undersigned, a practising physician, residing at No. 224, Spring Street,
in the City of New York, having read the foregoing affidavit of Mr. Judge,
certifies that it is a correct statement of the facts. The portrait was produced
as described, in full light, and without there being any opportunity for fraud.
Moreover, the undersigned wishes to say that other examples of Madame
Blavatsky’s power to instantly render objective the images in her mind, have
been given in the presence of many witnesses, including the undersigned;
and that, having intimately known that lady since 1873, when she was living
with her brother at Paris, the undersigned can and does unreservedly testify
that her moral character is above censure, and that her phenomena have been
invariably produced in defiance of the conditions of mediumship, with which
the undersigned is very familiar. L. M. Marquette, M.D.
So much for the circumstances attending the production of the por¬
trait ; now let us see what are its artistic merits. The witnesses are
well qualified, Mr. O’Donovan being one of our best known sculptors,
and an experienced art critic, and Mr. Le Char occupying a place
second to none as a portrait painter
To the Editor of a The Spiritualist”
Sir,—For the benefit of those among your readers who may be able to
gather the significance of it, I beg to offer some testimony concerning a
remarkable performance claimed by Col. Olcott and Madame Blavatsky to
have been done by herself without the aid of such physical means as are
employed by persons usually for such an end. The production referred to is
a small portrait in black and white of a Hindu Fakir, which was produced by
Madame Blavatsky, as it is claimed, by a simple exercise of will power. As
to the means by which this work was produced, however, I have nothing at
all to do, and wish simply to say as an artist—and give also the testimony of
Mr. Thos. Le Char, one of the most eminent of our portrait painters, whoso
experience as such has extended over fifty years—that the work is of a kind
that could not have been done by any living artist known to either of us. It
has all the essential qualities which distinguish the. portraits by Titian,
Masaccio, and Raphael, namely, individuality of the profoundest kind, and
consequently breadth and unity of as perfect a quality as I can conceive. I
may safely assert that there is no artist who has given intelligent attention to
portraiture, who would not concur with Mr. Le Char and myself in the opinion
which we have formed of this remarkable work, and if it was not done as it is
claimed to have been done, I am at utter loss to account for it. I may add,
that this drawing, or whatever it may be termed, has at first sight the appear¬
ance of having been done by washes of Indian ink, but that upon closer
inspection, both Mr. Le Char and myself have been unable to liken it to any
process of drawing known to us; the black tints seem to be an integral part
of the paper upon which it is done. I have seen numbers of drawings claimed
to have been done by spirit influences, in which the vehicle employed was
perfectly obvious, and none of them were of more than mediocre artistic
merit; not One of them, certainly, could be compared at all with this most
remarkable performance of which I write. yin., R. O’Donovan.
Studio Building, 61, "West 10th Street, New York.
To the President of the Theosophical Society.
Dear Sir,—My experience has not made me at all familiar with magic, but
I have seen much of what is termed spiritualistic phenomena. Among the
latter, so-called spirit drawings, which were thought by the mediums and
their friends very fine, but the best of which I found wanting in every
element of art.
I do not wish to be censorious, but an experience of fifty years in portrait¬
painting has perhaps made me exacting, when it is a question of paintings
alleged to come from a supernal source. This much by way of preface to
the subject of my present note.
I have seen in your possession a portrait in black and whitb of an Indian
religious ascetic, which is entirely unique. It would require an artist of very
extraordinary power to reach the degree of ability which is expressed in this
work. There is a oneness of treatment difficult to attain, with a pronounced
individuality, combined with great breadth. As a whole, it is an individual.
It has the appearance of having been done on the moment, a result always
inseparable from great art. I cannot discover with what material it is laid
on the paper. I first thought it chalk, then pencil, then Indian ink; but a
minute inspection leaves me quite unable to decide. Certainly, it is neither
of the above.
. If, as you tell me, it was done instantaneously by Madame Blavatsky, then
all I can say is, she must possess artistic powers not to be accounted for on
any hypothesis except that of magic. The tint seems not to be laid on the
surface of the common writing paper upon which the portrait is made, but to
bo combined, as it were, with the fibres themselves.
No human being, however much genius he might have, could produce the
April 12, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
177
■work, except with much time and painstaking labour; and, if my observation
goes for anything, no medium has ever produced anything worthy of being
mentioned beside it. ' Thos> Lb Char.
Studio Building, 31, West 10th Street, New York.
I hope this will suffice to show that when we Theosophists have been
charged with putting forth “ unsupported assertions,” injustice has been
done us, and that we are not quite the rash fools we have been taken
for. Men who have had a quarter of a century’s experience with
the medial phenomena, and who have no sympathy whatever with
materialists, or Christians, or any other class which opposes their inves¬
tigation, are neither to be regarded as incompetent observers, nor as
banded together to split the great body of Spiritualists into factions for
the mere sake of carrying out a sinister design. Henry S. Olcott,
President of the Theosophieal Society.
New York, March 12th, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM IN HULL.
Sir,—The business that brought me to Hull being concluded, I take
my farewell, bearing with me pleasant remembrances of the kind and
cordial manner with which I was treated and received by the local
Spiritualists.
The public Spiritualistic services commenced at Foresters’ Hall
met with a fair degree of success, such as will encourage the promoters
to continue them. It is probable that Mr. E. W. Wallis, of London,
may speak at them after the 20th April. A gentleman of scholarly
attainments has offered to deliver a course of six lectures on the
** Philosophy of Spiritualism ” in the event of Sunday public lectures
being continued. Mr. Bland, who is a trance medium and clairvoyant,
will occasionally occupy the platform. Mr. Thirwell, a gentleman
who has done much to promote public knowledge of Spiritualism, will
read papers on the subject from time to time.
So far so good. A little more energy, and a little more fraternal
unity amongst the Spiritualists of Hull, and the Sunday public services
may be considered an established phase of the movement.
Being pressed for time, I could not avail myself of the many invi¬
tations to attend seances. Mr. and Mrs. Pawson, of 24, Spenser-street,
hold two seances weekly—on Tuesday and Friday nights respectively
—Tuesday night for trance addresses, and Friday for physical mani¬
festations. These seances, it may be said, are thrown open to the
public, for scarcely any one asks for admission to them but obtains
permission.
On Friday evening there were sixteen persons present. Mr. Pawson
is the medium. He is a physical medium, who has a dislike for dark
seances, I am informed, and is now beginning to get feeble manifestations
in the light. The stance just referred to was a dark one, in which ■the
usual phenomena took place. “ Peter,” a spirit claiming to be well
known to the hdbituis of London seances, carried on a spirited conver¬
sation in the “direct voice,” promising materialisation and other great
things in the future.
Mr. Pawson is a powerful medium, and I have no doubt, in time,
would obtain the Mrs. Marshall class of phenomena so much in demand
at present.
One thing which I should recommend to the consideration of those
desirous of bringing Spiritualism before the public, is to bring its facts
prominently forward. Let the ethics follow as a matter of course,
and, above all, let there be less harping at the faults of others who
cannot see as Spiritualists are supposed to see by their superior light.
If modem Spiritualism is a better and purer light to guide the feet
of men in their sojourn through this world, let the world, the masses,
know it; but do not take the rushlight away before you can replace it
with a candle.
There is little or nothing to be gained by propagandists by ever¬
lastingly rolling over in their mouths as a ** sweet morsel” the errors
and shortcomings of non-investigators, scientific or theological, past or
present. It only disgusts inquirers, and prevents that investigation of
the facts and phenomena of modern Spiritualism which its public
advocates seek.
Here I take affectionate leave of the friends in Hull, wishing them
success in their public work, patience in their private investigation,
and friendly union amongst themselves; seeking truth and diffusing
truth ; sowing in hope, and waiting in patience for a rich harvest.
I am staying at present in Scarborough, where I shall remain
during the Easter holidays. I shall be happy to form the acquaintance
of any Spiritualists in the town, and to attend stances. Sunday
services given by me without fee. J. Coates.
2, Albermarle-terrace, Scarborough.
THE WAIL FROM THE STATUE OP MEMNON.
Sir,—In Edward Balzer’s AUgemeine Religion’s Geschichte, I find the
following passage relative to the statue of Memnon, and proceed to give
a very brief translation, which I hope you will behind enough to publish
for Mr. Gerald Massey’s information.
“ An earthquake destroyed the upper part of one of the statues of
Memnon twenty-seven years before the Christian era. Since then the
statue has been heard do utter a mournful sound at sunrise. Many
extraordinary legends were invented in consequence, and the circum¬
stance of the sound was generally regarded as a fable; but its truth has
since been established beyond doubt, and the tone has been discovered
to proceed from a sudden change of temperature in the Colossus,”
"When, in addition to this, we consider that several “ Savans of the
French expedition” were hardly likely to have experienced the “singing
in their ears,” which they mistook for a “ wail,” simultaneously, I think
it may fairly be regarded as a matter of doubt whether as yet
I Memnon’s lyro has lost the chord
That breathed the mystic tone.”
103, Soymour-place, London. Frederica Showers.
Sir,-—The following letter from Capt. O’Grady to Madame Blavatsky
has been handed by Colonel Olcott to me, at her desire, with a view
to publication. Capt. O’Grady was born at Madras, his father and
grandfather having been in the army. His brother is now on the staff
of the Governor-General of the Madras Presidency, and although a
young man, he has written much in American newspapers about India.
I shall not indicate to your readers how thoroughly Capt. O’Grady
endorses Madame Blavatsky’s statements, and certifies to her competency
as a critic of Hindoo esotericism. C. Cartes Blake.
Dear Madame Blavatsky,—Not being a Spiritualist, nor having the
happiness of being a member of the Theosophical Society, and private affairs
having caused my seclusion for some months past from any likelihood of being
brought in contact with the present phases of Spiritualism, I was somewhat
surprised to learn that my letter to the London Spiritualist, showing up some
remarks by Mr. Peebles, had created quite a “ stir.”
As I understand it, there has been quite a fuss made lately about four
special points in “ Isis.” To these I will give categorical attention.
1. As to the Todas, my personal acquaintance with them was limited. I
one day saw five or six. They were of light complexion, not fair or ruddy,
having indeed no colour, but decidedly lighter than any other natives of
southern India, even than the Namburi Brahmins, and the Nairs of the best
families in Cochin and Travancore. They were very handsome, well-made,
but dressed with the most primitive simplicity, and I must say, didn’t look
clean. My wife was brought up on the Neilgherries, where she was taken
when an infant, and she probably knew more about the traditions and general
native opinion regarding the Todas than any masculine investigator. Of
course the natives are more or less communicative among themselves, and
ladies who are kind to their servants, and are in one way or another brought
so much in contact with them, find them communicative, too. The ayahs, or
tirewomen and nurses, are as full of legendary lore as any Scotch crone that
ever lived. My wife picked up a good deal of this, and so did I, at second¬
hand. Now, so far as I could make out, the Todas are regarded by the tribes
immediately surrounding them, and even by the low-country natives, who,
since the opening up of the Neilgherries some forty years ago, have moved
up there in the train of the Europeans, as a very superior people; and it is
said of them, and believed, that they never cut their hair, never carry any
weapon but a long staff, which they only use as a symbol of authority, or by
way of a walking-stick, and not as a weapon at all; never work at any sort
of labour, and as lords of the soil are supplied with clothes, food (except
milk), and everything they require, by another hill tribe, the Badagas, who
are quite industrious, and in some cases even wealthy. The Todas have herds
of buffaloes, which supply them with milk, and it is said, protect themselves
from tigers, and their masters from the consequences of over-population.
There is probably no sort, of authority for the assertion, or Government would
have taken steps to prevent the barbarity; but the natives say that all but a
certain percentage of female infants, and all deformed children, are trampled
to death by the buffaloes. The Todas, it is said, practise polyandry—it is
certain few women are ever seen with them—and, it is popularly believed,,
are never molested by wild beasts or reptiles, although they move with perfect
freedom about the hills. Their numbers are supposed to be but small—not
more than 400.
2. The tiger-shooting on the hills is one of the great enjoyments of the
place, and the Neilgherries are famous for supplying fine sport. Colonel
Hamilton, of Ootacamund, and his two sons are famous shilcatris (or hunters),
and have scores of trophies. I went out one day—the only time I got- a
chance—after one of the largest tigers ever shot, with the two young men and
the Hon. John Napier, of the 92nd Highlanders, and aide-de-camp to his father,
Lord Napier (of Ettrick), Governor of Madras.- The sholas, or thickly-wooded
ravines between the grassy knolls of the hills, are a favourite lurking-place
for tigers. Panthers have been killed actually in gardens at Conoor. As to
serpents, I have heard there were none on the hills, and take it for granted
they are there, as everywhere else in India. If there were none, there would
certainly have been as much said about it as about the freedom of Ireland from
snakes—by the grace of St, Patrick. Personally, I don’t think I saw more
than ten live snakes (except, of course, with the jugglers) all the years I was
in India, yet, I understand, the most trustworthy statistics charge an annual
death rate of 30,000 to snakes.
3. A Goparam is the great pyramidal gateway of the Pagodas, but—by a
figure, common enough in all languages—the part is often taken for the whole,
and the word Goparam used, both in literature and conversation, to signify
the whole temple. And very naturally, I should say, for the gate of the
Temple, or, at best, its outer courts, as it is narrated of the Israelites, are all
that the masses have anything to do with. They never penetrate to the inner
precincts. Any hair-splitting about this word really seems to me excessively
childish, and scarcely in good faith.
4. As I believe the great masses of Hindoos are in as absolute ignorance
about their own cults as the lazzaroni of Naples, or the wild Irish of Galway,
or the back slums of New York, or the Liberties of Dublin, about the theology
of Catholicism, and that it is with the lower castes alone Europeans ever have
any sort of intimate relations, I believe the mysteries of Brahminism to be
something very difficult, indeed, well-nigh impossible "for any European to
penetrate, even after many years of investigation on the spot. With all
courtesy and gentleness of demeanour, the Brahmin is impenetrable as to his
inner self. The Europeans, too, with the pride of race natural to conquerors,
do, even the best of them (with few exceptions), and while not admitting the
fact to their own consciences, look down on the “ niggers.” And the natives
feel this with an almost miraculous sensitiveness. That there are friendships
between Europeans and high caste natives I do not deny. There are, and of
the most noble character. But, in the exchange of good offices, of esteem and
ready helpfulness in every way, the sort of friendship where men’s hearts and
souls are thrown open to each other, does not exist between the antagonistic
races. They may share purses, but they don’t show their love-letters.
The Hindoos certainly guard their faith too closely for any casual observer
to find out anything about it. It is the one thing which they will fight for
against any odds. They may put up with extortion, torture, the vilest fruits
of tyranny, if their religion is let alone. The East India Company, to the
disgust of Exeter Hall, subsidised the Pagodas, and would not allow mission¬
aries to land, and the present Government, to the disgust of the missionaries,
whom, however, it allows to land, continues the subsidies, but contributes
nothing to the missionaries.
It was with great difficulty that suttee and sitting Dhurna (a creditor
deliberately starving himself to death before a debtor’s.door, and so bringing
his blood on his soul) were abolished as customs (though cases still sporadically
occur), and it was only by proving that the Shastras had been misinterpreted,
178
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 12, 1878.
and having the fact authoritatively proclaimed by prominent Pundits, that the
abolition was brought about.
In conclusion I would say that all information about Indian religions,
mysteries, sacred men, mystic brotherhoods, such people as the Todas, esoteric
beliefs and explanations of occult phenomena, should be taken with the greatest
caution, unless it is known that the narrator is in perfect accord with the
natives on religious questions, and possessed of their entire confidence. As to
both of these requisites, I am convinced that you show in what you have
written, and still more forcibly by what I have heard you relate, where things
that I personally know and can explain have been dovetailed with things which
I knew of, or had heard of, and were previously not intelligible to me, but
which you made perfectly clear and logical, that you, Madame Blavatsky, are
an unquestionable authority on all these matters. I have not even heard of
any one—except perhaps the Abb4 Dubois, who I suspect knew more than he
committed to paper—to approach you. Believe me, with the greatest esteem
and respect, yours most truly, W. L. D. O’Gbadt.
176, Broadway, New York, March 27th, 1878.
THJS TODAS. )
Sib,—For my answer to the sneer of your correspondent(i H. M.” j \
about my opinion of the Todas (Spiritualist, March 8th), a few lines j)
sufficed. I only cared to say that what I have written in Isis Unveiled ])
was written after reading Colonel Marshall’s A Phrenologist among the j j
Todas, and in consequence of what, whether justly or not, I believe to j j j
be the erroneous statements of that author. Writing about Oriental j (I
psychology, its phenomena and practitioners, as I did, I would have j i
been ludicrously wanting in common sense if I had not anticipated such |)
denials and contradictions as those of “ H. M.” from every side. How | (|
would it profit the seeker after this occult knowledge to face danger, 111
privations, and obstacles of every kind to gain it, if, after attaining his |)
end, he should not have facts to relate of which the profane were j j
ignorant ? A pretty set of critics the ordinary traveller or observer, j)
even though what Dr. Carpenter euphemistically calls a “ scientific |)
officer,” or “ distinguished civilian,” when, confessedly, every European | j
unfurnished with some mystical passport, is debarred from entering any j j
orthodox Brahman’s house, or the inner precincts of a pagoda. How ])
we poor Theosophists should tremble before the scorn of those modern j \
Daniels when the cleverest of them has never been able to explain the ))
commonest “tricks” of Hindu jugglers, to say nothing of the i)
phenomena of the Fakirs! These very answer the testimony j
of Spiritualists with an equally lofty scorn, and resent as a personal |
affront the invitation to even attend a seance. j j
I should have let the jf Todas ” question, therefore, pass, but for j (
the letter of “Late Madras C. S.,” in your paper of the 15th. I j
feel bound to answer it, for the writer plainly makes me out to be a j <
liar. He threatens me, moreover, with the thunderbolts that a certain j
other officer has concealed in his library closet. | j
It is quite remarkable how a man who resorts to an alias some- I j
times forgets that he is a gentleman. Perhaps such, is the custom i
in your civilised England, where manners and education are said to i)
be carried to a superlative elegance; but not so in poor, barbarous | (
Russia, which a good portion of your countrymen are just now pre- ! j
paring to strangle (if they can). In my country of Tartaric Cossacks I)
and Kalmucks, a man who sets out to insult another, does not usually I <
hide himself behind a shield. I am sorry to have to say this much, but i j
you have allowed me, without the least provocation, and upon several !
occasions, to be unstintedly reviled by correspondents, and I am sure j
that you are too much of a man of honour to refuse me the benefit of an n
answer. j)
“ Late Madras, C. S.,” sides with Mrs. Showers in the insinuation j (
that I never was in India at all. This reminds me of a calumny of j
last year, originating with “spirits” speaking through a celebrated j)
medium at Boston, and finding credit in many quarters. It was, that I j (
was not a Russian, did not even speak that language, but was merely a j)
French adventuress. So much for the infallibility of some of the sweet j l
y angels!” Surely, I will neither go to the trouble of exhibiting to any ! \
of my masked detractors, of this or the other world, my pass- j)
ports vised by the Russian embassies half a dozen times, on my way j (
to India and back. Nor will I demean myself to show the stamped | (
envelopes of letters received by me in different parts of India. Such j)
an accusation makes me simply laugh, for my word is, surely, as good j (
as that of anybody else. I will only say, that more’s the pity that an j (
English officer, who was “fifteen years in the district,’’ knows less of i j
the Todas than I, whom he pretends never was in India at all. He j (
calls goparam a “ tower” of the pagoda; why not the roof, or anything ! (
else, as well ? Goparam is the sacred pylon, the pyramidal gateway j j
by which the pagoda is entered; and yet I have repeatedly heard the i (
people of Southern India call the pagoda itself a goparam. It may be
a careless mode of expression employed among the vulgar; but when 1)
we come to consult the authority of the best Indian lexicographers we i |
find it accepted. In John Shakespear’s Hindustani-English Dictionary 1 (
(edition of 1849, p. 1,727), the word “goparam” is rendered as “an j)
idol temple of the Hindus.” Has “Late Madras C.S.,” or any of his | j
friends, ever climbed up into the interior, so as to know who or what is n
concealed there ? If not, then perhaps his fling at me was a trifle j)
premature. I am sorry to have shocked the sensitiveness of such a j l j
philological purist, but, really, I do not see why, when speaking of the | j
temples of the Todas—whether they exist or not—even a Brahmanam- 15!
Guru might not say that they had their Goparams ? Perhaps he, or i | i
some other brilliant authority in Sanskrit and other Indian languages, | (
will favour us with the etymology of the word? Does the first syllable, i j
go, or gu, relate to the roundness of these “ towers,” as my critic calls ! j j
them (for the word go does mean something round), or to 'gop, a cow- 11
herd, which gave its name to a Hindu caste, and was one of the names j 5 i
of Kristna, go-pdl meaning the cowherd ? Let these critics carefully I j I
read Col. Marshall’s work, and see whether the pastoral tribe, whom he i j
saw so much, and discovered so little about, whose worship (exoteric, j 5 j
of course) is all embraced in the care of the sacred cows and 5' *
buffaloes; the distribution of the (idivine fluid”—milk; and whose
seeming adoration, as the missionaries tell us, is so great for their
buffaloes, that they call them the “gift of God,” could not be said to
have their goparams, though the latter were but a cattle-pen, a tirieri,
the mand, in short, into which the phrenological explorer crawled alone
by night with infinite pains and—neither saw nor found anything ! And
because he found nothing, he concludes they have no religion, no idea
of God, no worship. About as reasonable an inference as Dr. W. B.
Carpenter might come to if he had crawled into Mrs. Showers’s seance
room some night when all the “ angels ’’ and their guests had fled, and
straightway reported that among Spiritualists there are neither mediums
nor phenomena.
Colonel Marshall I find far less dogmatic than his admir«rs. Such
cautious phrases as “ I believe,” “ I could not ascertain,” “ I believe it
to be true,” and the like, show his desire to find out the truth, but
scarcely prove conclusively that he has found it. At best it only comes
to this, that Colonel Marshall believes one thing to be true, and I look
upon it differently. He credits his friend the missionary, and I believe
my friend the Brahman, who told me what I have written. Besides, I
explicitly state in my book (see Ists,vol. ii., pp. 614-15):—“As soon as
their (the Todas) solitude was profaned by the avalanche of civilisation
. . . the Todas began moving away to other parts as unknown and
more inaccessible than the Neilgherri hills had formerly been.” The
Todas, therefore, of whom my Brahman friend spoke, and whom
Captain W. L. D. O’Grady, late manager of the Madras Branch Bank
at Ootacamund, tells me he has seen specimens of, are not the
degenerate remnants of the tribe whose phrenological bumps were
measured by Colonel Marshall. And yet, even what the latter writes
of these, I, from personal knowledge, affirm to be in many particulars
inaccurate. I may be regarded by my critics as over credulous ; but
this is surely no reason why I should be treated as a liar, whether by
late or living Madras authorities of the “ C. S.” Neither Captain
O’Grady, who was born at Madras, and was for a time stationed on the
Neilgherri hills, nor I, recognised the individuals photographed in
Colonel Marshall’s book as Todas. Those we saw wore their dark
brown hair very long, and were much fairer than the Badagas, or any
other Hindus, in neither of which particulars do they resemble Colonel
Marshall’s types. “ H. M.” says, “ The Todas are brown, coffee-
coloured, like most other natives; ” but turning to Appleton’s Cyclopcedia
(vol. xii. p. 173), we read: “ These people are of a light complexion, have
strongly marked Jewish features, and have been supposed by many to
be one of the lost tribes.” “ H. M.” assures us that the places inhabited
by the Todas are not infested by venomous serpents or tigers; but the
same Cyclopcedia remarks that the mountains “ are swarming with wild
animals of all descriptions, among which elephants and tigers are
numerous.”
But the “Late” (defunct?—is your correspondent a disembodied
angel?)—“Madras C. S.” attains to the sublimity of the ridiculous when,
with biting irony, in winding up, he says:—“ All good spirits, of what¬
ever degree, astral or elementary,.. . prevent his (Capt. R. F. Burton’s)
ever meeting with Isis;—rough might be the unveiling 1” Surely—
unless that military Nemesis should tax the hospitality of some Ameri¬
can newspaper, conducted by politicians—he could never be rougher
than this Madras Grandison ! And then, the idea of suggesting that,
after having contradicted and made sport of the greatest authorities of
Europe and America, to begin with Max Muller and end with the
Positivists, in both my volumes, I should be appalled by Captain
Burton, or the whole lot of captains in her Majesty’s service—though
each carried an Armstrong gun on his shoulder and a mitrailleuse in
his pocket—is positively superb ! Let them reserve their threats and
terrors for my Christian countrymen.
. Any moderately equipped Sciolist (and the more empty-headed, the
easier) might tear Isis to shreds, in the estimation of the vulgar, with
his sophisms and presumably authoritative analysis, but would that
prove him to be right, and me wrong ? Let all the records of medial
phenomena, rejected, falsified, slandered, and ridiculed, and of mediums
terrorised, for thirty years past, answer for me. I, at least, am not of
the kind to be bullied into silence by such tactics, as “Late Madras ”
may, in time, discover; nor will he ever find me skulking behind a
nom de plume when I have insults to offer. I always have had, as I
now have, and trust ever to retain, the courage of my opinions, however
unpopular or erroneous they may be considered; and there are not
Showers enough in Great Britain to quench the ardour with which I
stand by my convictions.
There is but one way to account for the tempest which, for four
months, has raged in The Spiritualist against Colonel Olcott and myself,
and that is expressed in the familiar French proverb—“ Quand on veut
tuer son chien, on dit qu'il est enrage.1' H. P. Blavatsky.
New York, March 24th, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM IN IRELAND.
Sir,—As I see that Ireland is rarely mentioned in your pages in
connection with the spiritual movement, it may perhaps interest your
readers to know that we are waking-up here; and, notwithstanding
the religious bigotry and priest-ridden condition of the general public,
Spiritualism has been notably airing itself here for the last six months.
Professor Barrett’s paper in the December number of the Dublin
University Magazine, giving an interesting account of phenomena at
the bogs of “ Donnebellegau,” created a great sensation amongst a
circle where our “ ism ” is spoken of in a whisper. I, myself, was
forced into publishing and lecturing, through the rumour being
circulated of my “ being a little off my head.”
The lecture, Why am I a Spiritualist ? is a fair proof of a sane
mind, and it sold very freely, through my notoriety as the “ first lady
barrister in Ireland.” You see, I am not vain enough to think it sold
exactly on its own merits. In fact, the apathy of the people to any
April 12, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
179
progressive idea is proverbial. But I found that if you are able to j !
obtain an audience, under any plea, you soon impress them. The j | j
general notion is that Spiritualism means table-turning.. But, in j i j
speaking with the editors of papers, 1 astonished them by announcing j ] j
it as a science, a religion, and a philosophy. ! !
In order to secure audiences, I announced an entertainment, part i i
concert, part short discourses, and part free discussion. So, those j j j
who would not come to hear a lecture on Spiritualism, came to hear j J |
music and singing. Because I used my talent for singing, they forgave ] 11
me a good deal, I saw. And, however prejudiced they came into the j j i
balls, I found that they left with the decided belief, “ There is some- j j I
thing in it.” i H
Numbers of the more thoughtful waited to speak to me, or called | j i
after the lectures, expressing great surprise at the view of this despised j i j
“ ism ” being a philosophy, a science, and a religion. I had most 11 j
attentive audiences through the north. The south I did not attempt, ] j
the church being so antagonistic.
I feel I have awakened a spirit of inquiry which will bear good i1 I
fruit. The published lectures contained directions to families to form j
circles for themselves, without professional mediums. I am sure many i i
will experiment, and learn truth through this means. Thus, I feel j1 i
cheered to go on in this (to me) labour of love, for more barren soil !
than Ireland can hardly be conceived. At the same time, if the j
people are once impressed with this, or any other subject, they are !1
such natural born mediums, so enthusiastic and impressionable, they I
will be hereafter as loyal as they are now antagonistic. They seemed i I
more pleased with my own experiences, and how, in America, I j j
became a medium and Spiritualist, than even with the philosophical j [
lectures. i
The press everywhere behaved with great courtesy, and gave most j (
flattering notices, deprecating belief all the time. The experiments j I j
with planchette at my father’s, Mr. Gauly’s, amused these northern | ( j
people greatly, they knowing him as a strict, unbending, old-fashioned ! ( I
Presbyterian. His little granddaughter, ten years old, was the j | j
medium through whom planchette told him most wonderful things— | j \
secrets which neither she, nor I, nor any of his family knew. He ! (
could not refuse to believe the evidence of his senses, declares it is the I } !
I* devil,” but now greedily reads all he can get on the subject. | j !
Before starting for Cape Town, on my way to Melbourne, I return ! } |
thanks to all my good friends and the supporters I had during my j / i
lecturing tour; also to the Irish press. j ( I
I feel happy to say I can give the lie to the old proverb—“ A j j j
prophet has no honour in his own country.” Through the liberality j j
and courtesy of the press I have been able to sow broadcast seeds of i ( j
progress winch will bear much fruit in the near future. j
Sarah Parker. (
Dublin, April 8th, 1878. ■ j j
SPIRITUALISM AT THE CHURCH OP ST. ANDREW’S. | i
Sir,—Tavistock-place was yesterday morning the scene of an event j
worthy of record in the annals of modern Spiritualism. For the first ! / !
time, probably, the Spiritualist creed was publicly and authoritatively i ( j
declared within a consecrated building to be in harmony with Scripture j j i
and primitive Christianity. Dr. Maurice Davies, so well known by his i |
talented word-painting of orthodoxy and unofthodoxy, was announced j j j
on printed handbills as about to deliver a course of sermons, the first to j ( j
be preached that morning, on “ Modern Spiritualism and its Dangers.” j j
Whatever ambiguity as to the preacher’s personal opinions attached to I (|
the title, was quickly removed by the opening sentences of his discourse, j > |
in which he fearlessly avowed himself to be a Spiritualist in the modern j |
acceptation of the term. The text was taken from 1 John iv. 3, which l i
he held to be as applicable to communion with disembodied spirits of j i
to-day, as with the embodied ones originally intended. After avowing | j
that many of the alleged manifestations of spirit power were referable ( j
to credulity and fraud, Mr. Davies declared his unalterable conviction ( j
that there was “ a residuum ’’ that could not be so accounted for, but | |
which afforded irrefragable proof of the action of intelligence or intel- j ( i
ligences extraneous to man’s. Much stress was laid on the argument j [ j
that the days for ignoring Spiritualism were past; that ‘‘ this thing is j i
undoubtedly in our midst,” and that therefore it behoves us in a | i
religious and trustful spirit to enquire wherefrom it is come. Dr. j | |
Davies assured his hearers, from his personal knowledge, that, while he : M
had known instances where Spiritualism had done harm, he had known i j
many more where it had been a blessed means of turning men from j i j
infidelity to Christian faith and hope. The lesson to all was to ‘‘try the | j
spirits” by the Scriptural test, confession of the exceptional divinity i j
and sacrificial atonement of Jesus of Nazareth. The church, which was j | |
comparatively empty during the earlier portion of the service, became \ |
crowded as sermon time approached, and the preacher was listened to i 1 I
with intense attention. To advanced Spiritualists the sermon was of j M
course as “ milk for babes.” To outsiders it was probably as “ strong i j j
meat ” as they could assimilate; in any case remains the cheering j ( j
fact that ’mid the vestments and lighted tapers of Bitualism, the bold i / j
hand of an honest Anglican priest has raised our glorious banner, and j j j
so openly put his hand to the plough of “ modern Spiritualism,” as j ( I
henceforth to be enrolled among its best champions. Louisa Lowe. j /
64, Bemers-street, W., 8th April, 1878. j j
Dr. T. L. Nichols will narrate “ A Ghost Story,” at the fortnightly j |
meeting, to be held by the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spirit- | /
ualism, on Monday next, at 8.30 p.m. Inquirers are invited to I
attend. j
Mr. W. J. Colville will return temporarily to London on Thursday j (
next. He will deliver a trance address at Langham Hall, 43, Great j |
Portland-street, on Good Friday, at 8 p.m. Subject, “ Woman: Her j ) ]
True Position and Divine Mission.” He will also lecture on Tuesday, j (|
the 23rd instant, on “ Art as the Handmaid of Religion.” i J i
IDEALITY AND MORALS.
BY J. T. MARKLEY, AUTHOR OF “ STRAY THOUGHTS ON MANY THEMES.”
Thanks to an early acquaintance with phrenology, and an
intuitional interpretation of the human temperaments, I can
tolerate all faiths, dispositions, and opinions. I believe that
there are beauty and goodness in all creeds and creed-
makers, and, ofttimes, much that is commendable in earnest
people without any creed at all. But, without a genuine
basis of sweet-smelling morality—creed or no creed—I have
little faith in the good intentions of ordinary human nature.
To be a true man, a person must needs be a good man. All
faiths cannot be true. All men are not good. But there
may be in each a measure of both goodness and truth : even
when fire-awakened churchal piety, or the cooler sway of
social morals, exist only in narrow, or fragmentary, forms.
Historic experience will buttress this argument: Catholic
haughtiness, or Protestant sect-sneering, to the contrary,
notwithstanding. Carlyle is a big, and a bold, thinker; but
in spite of the rough-shod Emersonian splendour of his
literary dogmatism, I, for one, will not admit that the
(c twenty millions of Englishmen are mostly fools !” Rather
let us say that all separate individualities feel the impulse of
warm other-world inspiration, good, bad, liberal, or conser¬
vative, whether of theological sourness, or the pure, sweet-
briar exhalations of artistic and ideal religion. Was it not
Charles Kingsley who told us that the English Puritans had
their specialities of poetic romance? Dean Stanley also
grandly advocates the same tolerant inference. Cromwell
was certainly iconoclastic, even to the most prosaic extremes
of monumental destruction. His natural pre-disposition
against art may be somewhat excused as a reaction in
national morals. But the bent of his non-flowery soul was
in all points the reflected gloom and musicless severity of a
common Scotch Sabbath. If the Spiritualists’ “sphere”
theory be correct as regards the after-life, I hope that I shall
do some wickedness in this world, which will banish me to
a “ sphere” of Elysian liveliness—to some happy hunting
ground—where Cromwell and his angels are not. I want
to be with Shakespeare, Mozart, Macaulay, Tom Hood,
Hazlett, F4nelon, Keble, and all the best, sweetest poets,
artists, divines, and rare intellectual folk of all ages, which
I am sure will also include the Times editorialists, the
learned jesters of Punchy and every member (not in arrears)
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
To this end I plead for ideality in morals. Religion must
be a sweet smelling savour. Spiritualists must set the
example. Their piety must not be vulgarised by intense
creedal conceptions of professional goodness. The God they
serve must not smell of brimstone. The joy which Keats
drew from Beauty must be theirs for ever. Hence the need
for that cascade-like flow of “ sweetness and light,” which
Arnold spiritualised amid the uprisings of culture, but which
living Cromwellians affect to despise, through their normal
lack of intelligent sympathy with things noble in the
musical and statuesque province of art. Let me here bring
up an illustrative parsonic antithesis. Take four representa¬
tive popular preachers—Spurgeon, Dr. Begg, Haweis, and
Paxton Hood. The excellent pastor of the Metropolitan
Tabernacle deserves almost international love and esteem for
his now historic good works. His racy gifts of speech con¬
tinually bless thousands within the range of his moral
influence and advice; his pulpit “gems” almost make
Calvinism poetic; and his useful orphanage at Stockwell
makes all impartial people love him. But his theology at
times sours his finer feelings. Not so long ago, Pastor
Spurgeon expressed himself in a style worthy of the worst
tastes of earlier Geneva. Preaching in a chapel where God
is worshipped with organ grandeur of song, the pet of Non¬
conformity, turned from the solemn musical instrument in a
fit of impassioned scorn, and urged a “ matchwood destruc¬
tion” of such chapel organs. His brother minister—Dr.
Begg—also, in another place, observed that he should like
to see the boys in the street throw stones at all stained or
ornamental church windows. Just imagine with what
mental anguish the above, otherwise excellent, divines,
would view the famous churches of the Continent, and how
intense would be their spit-fire bitterness in lands and in
temples where matchless art inspires the holy understand-
ing, and gives an ideal reverence to objects and associations,
sacred to religionists in all ages.
How different would be the opinions, tastes, and feelings
of the Broad Church and Congregationalist clergymen—
Haweis and Paxton Hood. No sense of the mind which
hastens to appreciate things beautiful; no relict of genius
which appealed to the spintuelle sympathies; and no emblem
in art which could charm the idealistic feelings and attach¬
ments would escape the reverent attention of those two front
rank moralists. Their personal goodness of heart would
receive at once a stimulant and a blessing where loud lip-
service happened to intrude less than sculpture, painting,
and the vast voice of God emphasised in marble, and the
frost-work magnificence of holy shrines and awe-quieted
aisles. Happily, most readers of thisjournal share this gift
of cultured imagination; and if “like attracts like” in
the great beyond, the heaven of the Spiritualists will be a
glorious place indeed. I hope the editors of many of the
sectarian newspapers will not get into the heaven above-
named ; for the exceeding wrath which evaporates from
certain “ orthodox ” prints might continue to flow with a
spleen not congenial to persons of affectionate and refined
disposition. But even theologians may mend their manners
as cultivation advances ; for, before now, the most hardened
sinners have been converted, and have become, almost
instantly, happy, charitable, and friendly towards people
who differ, and upon points which caused the difference.
In common life, morals often fail through habitual in¬
attention to idealistic culture. We see but feeble piety—
even in strong doctrinal quarters—where the imagination is
neglected. Take the cottage without pictures, window-
flowers,'and suitable furniture. Only half the finer faculties
get developed, and the over-eating of reeking food in badly
ventilated dwellings, and without anything artistic to
educate the wandering eye to a sense of ideal pleasure, the
vacant mind of the poor man, woman, or child yields to the
t( evil communications ” which corrupt good manners.
The Sunday sermon and the crowding flow of tracts are lost
upon such unfortunate people. They may even be well-
intentioned church or chapel folk; but unless the artistic
attributes of the soul find suitable encouragement and
expression, the Sabbath goodness will in time give way
before animal inclinations, aggravated by the causes just
mentioned, and unrelieved by the needful pictures, flowers,
plants, and other attractive surroundings.
In fact, religion is only half developed in the soul without
the ideal spirituality of beauty and art. Herein lies the
secret of firmly-established morals. The dramatic shouts
and semi-secular song-service of Moody and Sankey suited
huge emotional crowds; and God blessed the circus-like,
moral dash of their exceptional efforts to do good. But
such hot-house piety invariably lacks the ascetic spirituality
of that less impulsive moral training which appeals to, and
controls, the reverence for pure thoughts felt by peoples of
advancing intelligence. Doctrines alone will not make men
good, or society happy. Even the new sacerdotalists call
in flowers, music, feast-days, bell-melody, and the u dim
religious light” of Gothic aisles, to supplement and bind
together extreme theological opinions and statements. In
short, Ritualism—mocking the great Latin Church—seeks
to spiritualise the ideals of art, and invites the dreaming
new births of landscape nature to contribute to the subtle
popular sway of a moral thesis, where priests only are
presidents. But High Churchism only touches a section
of society. Even the Romanists confine the ideal and the
imaginative too much to fixed dates, corporate conditions,
and mere altar influence. To succeed against the restless,
selfish, vulgar passion-cries of materialistic society, the
cultivation of clean lives and clear thoughts must rest upon
well-disciplined individual morals. All men cannot possibly,
or conveniently, imitate John Henry Newman, in his holy re¬
tirement, his severe biscuit-dinners, and spiritual meditations.
Fleet-street must have its surging crowds, and the cattle
from a thousand hills continue to be sacrificed for the
ravenous million, It is right that men should feed as well
as think and work. But man, as an animal, must be
gradually spiritualised by religion, by nature, and by
reaching upward to the ideal standards of art. Hodge, the
ploughboy, may have no classic conception of pure Grecian
severity in personal training, but he is educated uncon¬
sciously to a certain model chasteness of disposition by green
lanes, April skies, and the daily songs of birds, which London
mechanics know not of; and the result is shown, by remark¬
able contrast, in comparative conduct and conversation.
But even town life affords sufficient of the idealistic, in
themes, privileges, and artistic surroundings to make men
muse morally, and the dinner-hour a period of politeness.
Unfortunately, among the masses, feeding-time is a season
of irreverence and animal vulgarity. Meet a factory crowd
soon after their mid-day meal, returning to work, and the
language uttered is certainly not the language of flowers.
Also, except in the parks, during Sunday, the 11 esprit de
corps” youths of all cities seem to have no subjects of
mental and moral introspection; and the closed shops com¬
bine with the dulness of street traffic to produce ennui, and
a consequent expression of manners, inartistic, to say the
least. Here we have the secret of national moral decadence,
and behold collective sympathies, of which poetry is the
timid antithesis. May we not conclude that morals, to be
i firm and effective, must be attractively idealised, as general
H society grows in worldly wisdom? Doctrinal piety only
ji commands one side of the human understanding. The soul
| must run out after the beautiful, or theology will only aid
| the designs of the beast. De Witt, Talmadge, and the
| brimstonites may swear, in their pulpit wrath, that men
| | shall not enter into earth’s loveliness and laughter; but dry
| ! abstractions will not do for intelligent seekers after God.
| I Morality must be. loving, enlightened, and sweetly poetic,
II such as Christ inspired. In the Church we want more men
I like Robertson, of Brighton, and such living teachers as
| Dean Stanley, who call in, for idealistic soul-progress, all
' that is of good repute in history, in science, art culture; in the
flowery alphabet of upland meadows, and the sermonic
whisperings of groves and seas.
Mr. J. Coates is at 2, Albermarle-terrace, Scarborough, willing to
assist local Spiritualists in any way he can.
Experienced Spiritualists sometimes remark that psychical phe¬
nomena are strongest in the spring months of each year. Our pages
this week seem to show that there is some truth in the idea.
A book by Almira Kidd, full of spirit messages, entitled The
Laws of Being, has just been published by Messrs. Colby and Rich,
Boston, U.S.
On Sunday next, April 14th, Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver trance
addresses in the Camden Hotel, Camden-street, Liverpool. Morning
service at 11 o’clock. Evening service at 6.80. Mr. Morse will give a
special meeting in aid of the funds of the Liverpool Psychological
Society on the following evening, April 15th.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s usual weekly seance, with Mr.
i,, Eglinton as medium, was broken off in the middle last Saturday even-
| j | ing, in consequence of Mrs. Gregory’s sudden illness. She had been
] j! more or less unwell for a week or two previously. We are glad to be
| ([ able to state that this faithful and efficient worker in the Spiritual
I j ] movement is now much better.
i Mr. Buskin' on Spiritualism and Materialism. — The difference
\ | between the spiritual and the material is very well brought out by Mr.
j i Buskin in a chapter, entitled “ Athena in the Heart,” in one of his
(| works. He says : “ It is of great consequence that you should fix in
11 your minds, and hold against the baseness of mere Materialism on the
j [ one hand, and against the fallacies of controversial speculation on the
j j other, the certain and practical sense of this word ‘ spirit ’; the sense
(] in which you all know that it really exists, as the power which shaped
]) j you into your shape, and by which you love and hate when you have
(j received that shape. . . . And so long as you have that fire of the heart
] 11 within you, and know the reality of it, you need be under no alarm
j 5 i as to the possibility of its chemical or mechanical analysis. The
i < i philosophers are very humorous in their ecstasy of hope about it;
j j! but the real interest of their discoveries in this direction is very small
j 5 j to human kind. It is quite true that the tympanum of the ear
j(| vibrates under sound, and that the surface of the water in a ditch
[ j | vibrates too : but the ditch hears nothing for all that; and my hearing
||| is still to me as blessed a mystery as ever, and the interval between the
i (| ditch and me quite as great. If the trembling sound in my ears was
j) | once of the marriage-bell, which began my happiness, and is now of
j 11 the passing bell, which ends it, the difference between these two sounds
11! to me cannot be counted by the number of concussions. There have
III been some curious speculations lately, as to the conveyance of mental
| (! consciousness by ‘ brain-waves.’ What does it matter how it is conveyed ?
; I j The consciousness itself is not a wave. It may be accompanied here
|) j and there by any quantity of quivers and shakes, up or down, of
| (j anything you can find in the universe that is shakable—what is that
m to me? My friend is dead, and my—according to modern views—■
|} | vibratory sorrow is not one whit less, or less mysterious to me than my
old quiet one.
180 THE SPIRITUALIST. April 12, 1878.
Apeil 12, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST-
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Eepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Eussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell. M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
* who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. 6d.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Od.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE'; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD P OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,|also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraitbs, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolicaL He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo„ 16s.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals twere
surrounded. The author also sent bis clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mtdiumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.: cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits tbrongb
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work.
Is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seahces at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Bddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid. •
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiravu n-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs.. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis. _ x
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
the P
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
“ - | „ II.
„ HU
„ IY. „ .
,, V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ,
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Yiciims
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology .
Morning Lectures .
ople
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 21
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds . . . •; . . 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . .‘ . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China .to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.s.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six p'arts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . '. . . 10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A . 10
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .12
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. ... . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . • . 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
- Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authob and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON..
•Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Oolby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S,
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, hut also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion dow inon-
Spiritnalistic throats, and it is only fair to admit, that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of tbe nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.’’—
Morning Advertiser.
“The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Brice Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price fid., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Oloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office '
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-strest; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
voad.
Ill
Price five shillings. Oloth, red edges.
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON)," ON
PSYCHOGRAPHY,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OP CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject,
Preface.
Introduction.
Psycography in the Past: Guldenstubb6—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
l.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Bearing Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness. Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter,J.L.O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O'Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II  From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E' idence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III  From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of-JRev. J .
Page Hopps, w. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P,; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—^Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E,
Detonating Noises in Connection with It—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory;-Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London: W. H. HARRISON, 38, Great Russell-street.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism,
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautifu
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the . Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Riehmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treheme)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta ”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. JBurxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna ;Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci.. Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies. D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voles of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey—
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Llsette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F.R.G.S.—A Chila’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 far Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6d, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says*.—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; tbe facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by tbe wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
IT
TH EfJS F
ArRii<1<12,rrl87‘8.
A
NUW ERA.
liraxe^tivc-and cure.for
: Billou8aes8.*SsicK Hfeayacne, Skin Eruptions, ImpiyeVjBloodJ
'templMobsyje'lFaefi, Giddiness,'FeverSv^Faveri^Hnras*, foyerfsh
AioJSsjSwIAjMltDeSres^QnjlWant. of* Appetite,' -SournessTdf .the
(Stomik;Jij^Jonstipajioff!*yMoiti;igi,*d.'h1rst, &c., and to remove the
efleetgoFerrorff of eSting an^'drinkln^.1*
Iiit mHi" iW*T- ■ • . "■ ■ - . . q
){SF]yjITj‘^S^LT.^“, A.pa'ongat .tliel many
»»ana variec!^$di<^i£^dtsioxwieS*o?the nineteenth ^ntuiy
ijiCftejBeimaBS.JialatoanjcediSayapidly.ihtd publfcnoticei
.'^^'EN'O^^'rlttjiTr-S ACT .^.^Comparatively''unkncrEvn
'Jifijua tM^prepatation, ■whiptr is mlade
. fjromtritiCsptomftptnsfnow'iMlt'witlf4n Jeydjy quarter
.   -,»-ir™S6fe,g.r%a.tijawti;''^hich1s claime'd for it ji
* 'T?Rav4t *elpS^T,ree»1wbrdfct*Jm« •and4 tHe^gystem •perfectly
jCjefif; vandrthiisi.taltes ‘away ithelgrountttvotbfef rfiata*
''Cnergs 'aiOTases’.^o cdmmffin^jolttoiratssand aistri(JTa_whtch
' ayedUrdrained.^.Tnfefe isdittle'doubt but jttiatitheitime
■' -^iref^ftu&liy.c0tne1‘ tVlcfen'jfeyers • an&tstiSeapes?resulttng
;f^u . pgisdiifed'vbloijd e-tiill ibe deonsipered tea§*; offences
■ ’ 'a^InstTtnffw;elP'bfeini?fbpcomtndnitit5s.?'at{Jayge tbbutiwe
: i . 'will,>.in^i all probability, - bpjsome, j while jpt;- before if
‘shall ,ihaye‘arfi-ved 'at' such;a>ni|pn: oft* stwjttanf (twrfiBfeljowi
■ 'aiitThilop wc <,cannot tyithhold; a„\velc,omjs ;to any
pntsjjmo'h maytpfove p naaahs- pf pjeserong tor restore
^WML^Bh^siinfiijaryUieeaj^eyr sq. tQ'igtobiy as it dp
Jim .■  .■Pto'^ts
it in®ie#|fta*aalea4fe[tats j^tpr#byida,l^ jtiap nips,” yuuf
■ amorfgst thejfioodJijmiijar%-ta-iliimpit^iejpo5jmiUut®alJ
‘n dtjjeittiBBftvKS-ld^tiaifeatjpiaedia^tffilsissia^rtfeasjgig
-- hufalso" ffi.te’sgBmlamreilriiMga«toto^ftafi»gi: I{py» 1>
p. 18W.'^, '.W. ,b.? S VM
vv ?mk ?Wt^^EVKR1^0T)Y'‘^YANTS' TO w i
i- 5
'^|^0,g^^#Tt.^IffJ-T5A'rGe4i’tletnfn twrites
t JTj “ Sincelha^^d^NQ’S F^trra^ SA1.T. niglit'and*
morning, my headaches,' &ct,‘ have. left mb, bhdtjnis'aftei;
suffering for above twenlyye’afs.' ifotrsfi6mdJmake' this
jfc. “ ^ fact .weii known.”. ?&£!&. — 
K'^^S^FR^TT “^ALTr—rA-: Lady writes : —
UfjEverythingf medicine dr food, ceased to act properly for
. jb*i.at4lea8t ■tlrrce months before I commenced taking it; the
^ /^iiule foo.dTjSjlold tijke generally punished me or returned.
,. . ,]V®U'e'jydsIonedf gre,at, suffering, so that I must have
‘*,BUTOWmbed,be^|^'dPS^-”~i,'ii't';.:», . "  
WHAT EVERy^fe^lVEfjLINCx TR#NK AND HOUSEHOLD
TN«TEffi IWOR-BDiO0GftIT).TO 'CONTAIN—A- BOTTLE OF
EXO’S fruit salt,Ji' J.
T l StfJ'OiX''-; i AS * A ' n 1 ' "/
I •»GESFJtAI, LkXATIVB ANn.TpSJO f ; i, , :
- ■ 'IN THBiyAltlOtiS lI'OKMS- OPl-rSblSiESSION'. . . \
GUARANTEED TOrBE:TREPAltED .EROMJ SQUND RIPE
f > *»
i .THft JMflt aat 'teAtayrf-NJhire’giaLyfli'ferQahetgtAlt contains all
tli^StePble!samje„fcOT^muc}rtC!i^‘Rjpe •EWnwiffya ‘ portable?
ad|fcaRfefdroSSftS Pie; f®dS am3?Min’ejei'^r^s|iect as harmless
astjjfejmcesKEiHitstroni wmctiir'is'phfained.' T". * '
■''ItrPh^l^jnalBlOtbh'ed'bnttlie’Pace.-Sanowness of- the Skin,
. and Depression of Spirits,' it is" most useful.’for not-the least of its
^recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
n which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood ;, and its advantages over
fruit is that it'can.he always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern'
■ cji^sfey/jAhht'nRfbreidn Clijhates'it-iSTinvaluablei^ItJallayi
■ infer; nepvoug^pystom^o 'fits
mg^Ecpnditiptftbj^natural. means)? In tneNurseryirisheyond'
K'aiSS^. r-. .''Ay.'?"-".V-wV*'■ fc>. .r. * | raw ■{
?5?I I"EN^)’’S?rFRillT SXLT, :v,±|^|r*
laparticularly yalqldle'P'NoU-aVeiler should leaye-homewjthout
Csupply,'for by?R|lupe ''the'molt dangerous forms ’of ►FeVers,'
Blood Poisons,‘-«c^f.ime!T¥eyefrted,• and.Gttred Itils>in/tfuthy.r’
Family ^aaMnefjUmaWh^tEg siHfjfilestryet'"m6§t’ potent'iorm
"of ' Nature’s jown;
^8duo1!&Wid^is ttib'blded.|pnre,!and is thus ot: itself one of.
'ilne.m^twwmibifrTiSSatistOf keeping. the blood .free. from.
;'^*tffe®ferSbafld^<bloT>diIpoisons, iliVer.TCOBriplaints,t&fi„;ever.
<lisfbvCTS<E,^As?a“ffiPbnS':'of 'rpreserying f and ‘ restoring
 iMSSidtfSfitetamif that» ifaitsfigrfeat.valuevih'keeping,
—Tshtt^hefbddy Hiealtfcy' Were'universally known, not" a house-;
— ;j^b§^dft*fHif^andK.wi)iild‘ibb’' without' itr»nor4ia gjngje;
-<■ '»^ai>'|jJS#iFii)|lg8lrunk''6xhpcrtmanteau but would' contain it?—1
.,.,c r . ;
*0P
isrQ.'S’FTITTTTj SAlffTi—» J am verv-muchWeased
%iHfS^Mti-iuiye fnlly<kpKwed«ts4greaf.'
I*:'”~"cyj)y its'having eiftireiy cured ihe'or “ilftllgestion.”—
ooIl7Uhi.;vrftaor-rOh^f Ca^terb'iiry.i.; .:>,<^■''■, •«» * * *
Ml
ftOH' .i_a c<
aa^QRT^- QEa^JigE^-RAftpiTATION. OF
' JslN' ,!fEE'diKAlff, causedpy I,>S^Ktb)erangernerit and Indiges^
* tiomfrequently cailedlor fnlitakeri, for) Heart Disease'
WmF&'A V ©htApril MU pursnaseffa. bhrtle ‘otypur FRUIT-SALT,
H| wno^elm%W^§U-at,thatirperand it'll ad,an effect that
I neyer anxicipatea when J boughtIti *1 had suffered more
*' • or ICSs; since, the'yetfr 1841, from palpitatibnhf ’the heart,
» i *-Auifibiry nadiysdlirihg'the last few yeorsnkTiife-leaSt'tliing.
•: ■'vgul.d produce (t-during the day, and at night my sleep
*•, - fw:4%vpry,mpch.disturbed.-Strange to,say,"aae^Oie.iitrst
„ ‘idw^pf^ERUIT-SAETj the, daingerous, annoying,''' mid
' truly disagreeable'' symptoms of palpitation^ sudderily
J**- * ‘■ceksedv aiid haVe-mot since returned. Out of gratitude fop
4' - !'tnd bdnbfit which Miave received, ! have recommended it
r t Jotoallmyfffiepds.ihq.thinLondon and.Tarmoutbi jA^the
. - , same time, I'ieef;it''a duty. to sta!te,the above facts,ibf
.. which‘yoihYgnjSiake>wiiateyer;use, you please.-iLani,
dearer, yeurs respectfully, . ‘’.“'W.B.BECkEtr?’1^
Aug. 30, 1877,—lO,1 Yorkisqvfarb; pornmefeiabroady-LohSoii/E. ;
/^AUTIpN,.'—Examipe^eacii ' RottleL.Aiid’ see , the
Capjulejs m^rked^ENOIS^FRUIT SALT,”. Without it
you have been, imppsed'pn.'by ,a”worthlesfimltation. TRADE
MA1UC—Eno’s Fruit 'S'alt, 'Fruit1 SalIite, or Fruit Powder. ’
• m . 'goldby^ail Chemists.-' Pfrce2s;-9d.and4s.Bd."
Seli Agmtfor Paris—PHARMACIE DE BEEAL. 1 RUE DE
LA PA1X. ' . ' 1 * .
TOBS^SpH^gbedfA .jt4 |Ui# *■
£ frice Seven'Shillings andSixpence7l)rown • 8 vo/richlyVgllt^
i» i. T LWZ-
* f | I • ■* • 'TOE|lLI,IAM Hi HARRISON. jP
? | AnteleganSand Ampsing .Gift-Bpoi pf.PoeticalandtProse >f;
• •* || • WTOiin«syh(3tave afla^Gayr3* h ’
frhp gjlt ue^ce onlihe coVer desfgned h/FibfSnce^IiixtmJfarid tl^
% I . :•<. V Ahthor.■'yv^..la
st, . tSyifTM'i Contents.!'T|wT'r'"!'r' , .iS
! 2 ■ * Par* l.—Mticellme<^ToeMs mdjProse }prUingsYiiy£)l
4 R The Lay of the Lazy Authhr.-T2,$'he Song of the NpwsBaper
tEdjtor.—3. The Song of .the^F^wnDroker.-^.jThe Castln.'-rp#lfhjE!
(Lay qf the .Fat !VIan.—6.fjThekEoetry»oL«Science.p-;7iEtbwfHadJi
iAliSljacabac. was Fhotograpl^d.; (A.letter ffolnlHadjUAl SJigcabac,
{a gentleman who .visited London < pit'. bu^ip^ggiCQpneptechwiJbh a
iTnrkish Loqn, to All Mustaph# Beh 'Buckram, .ChvBtiofifheXoh
dege of Hotting Dervishes ati Constantihople'.)-z*8,'ff hc -Lav,-of.the
Bipa^Brimmed Hat-—11 ^UH'’i<lb’si,Bay.-^10.,vffhei»I»ayt1ofhthp
Aiafket Garpener.—llejJ'Fast'Falls the'Eyenfcide,;r^l2j.\Ojur Riay%i
Ip. Jlateriplistic .Religipnf—ffS.^jrheiLay'of' the Pliotographei\—
M.lHow to .Double tlierrUtility-ohgtHeiJ’rinthig. Prep.—15; The
'Song pt thejMotihejr iB-hawi.-f-Jtjf. t WirbeZ-beioet/urig.^lf.* poor Old
'Joe!”rrl8. The Humlni Hiv«AQjLay' ofithe iMacp-Bearers.—
,20.;A Love Song.T-21. A^ision-rg^i^il^ider the 'Lihies.”—23.'The
tAngelof Sijpiice. * , . Pf . . t 4. jk «.***
: I>rt %—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobolejaws.
i ; 24.'^rhe'PmiliftiAnalyst.-416, (GeneralGmnt’s Reoeption at Foike-
stoiie.-426.11 The'Rtfte'xlbr^;—27:'Toffy’s1 Lament4—28. The July
ffiugf-,29. The^CmiyertedCarman. _ fie*• . i)40M#>X ttg
) • ^ , ' siOfiNfOilS ,OF.THE PBESg.-. 'f Lj^,
4 I \ ■, t '.Front|. Jforqfoo Posf.*' Ay '> V it
i The TJ/orwincf. PbsfJwHiclffstVongly rec^tpmcn'ds^the hoo^J^’a
rewpw ne!iriyS*‘bbfumn'16ngi' says i-r-bCotriic^IEefathre ii^iieh
tnoaesfHy deSferyes/fhe epitheKseems^to bblfapidly1?]t)eTOiJii)ig'.''a
jliijig 8f the past'; donseqtieffftx any writer who', uke IMr. lflitWjSon,
xfffbitk.a gdnmne Yehi-of hun&ijr, deservesithe^fdtg| qfjtirwhd
re’iKmtob Mopii^tp eiijbyi.aff'ihnpcent laujghr ’NdLtliat His Ihusb
restrifts liefflglfiDnfjtffo ^pclimgnter uttfeylqiicM'^bmtne tihliti^fy',
§ome uffhtsjiOMTi^’ toVclCbir tfie', deepest and inpsrsawef^Tlenngs-
f onr fcoromoh Jiumaiiity.‘.,;JUTheHnforttinattrHadir^jnai'ratiyfl
""‘yyhitAjilqJcJjia quite
' ’ ’ for years?. . ,
welconTe': from;*,
2ke the saffie'^kgy 'l£s’pjCe~hon GaMtier. Ballads' or ThirBigiow
Tapers, “ withhn.appreciably^ucc'essfulresult.”
• ti . rl ,Yj f’ From The Court Journal.
“AlCare'of.marked ability, f'.'. Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’,.
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate gemune, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both thewerses and the short essays are really
funny, and.in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
Which adds piquancy to the fiin. The Lay of the Newspaper-Editor
is capital,-.if. r^therlsexere,- and so is The Lay of the. Mgcebearers^
but one.of.the most laugliable bits is the Turk’s, account of how he
went to be photographed. . . . ; i.
r From BfCblic Opinion.
A volume of remarkably good verse... i Some of the metrical
legpirds relrfind hs of,tlie>Wila chants that.used td be sung at the
meetings of the.C.arinibal Club; some ten’or'fifteen years ago? Mr.
Harrison, however,-knows'whfere to plant hisifun,'and an accu-
r^t^scieotific mind like liis can make jokes wi|h suegess._,.. To
mi who wisli to read a pleasant’volume magnificently gofiip as'a
gift-hook, we commSha'2',Ve Lazy Lays:.",
v * •v;.••Ffom The Bobiidlers "*
An** odd'but most entertaining-assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Sexentiflc men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
ffluxle^).’'!We , believe'kthat^our readers'may: derive a qittle
amiiSbment ftfemlatperiital of the-Volume.’-’.t* * , ,
^PpomTheJittyish Journal of Photography?*;'' £
The Lazy Lays ipclude many admirable.pieces, some of which
are in'vcx;se and.others in prose, some scienttflc,Tjther^'sofiia], but
all'of them excellen't.'.l ' .'The Lays ylll makefexcell'efit.and
aifiusing reading'for an.dc'casibnalsp'Sre half-hour,: l. Theycdh-
taiii’hbtliing uhtenned or in bad taste.”:* f-'i j' ’ » ' ■ 1
* ^PxoxciThipublinlJr.i'o'ersity Magazine!' ■ f
.“(HowJIadji’AlShacal^c, an amiaMe^Curk.'jyas'photographed;
is well ‘doffeT. v .TBoiina'in a dbver of’somewhat powerful design.”
t.' l r Pxom’ThePhotographic’-News.ii . vff: ;
* Mr. WyH.' Harrislop,-a gentleman 'whose name' is familiar»in
comie'ctidniwithAphbtbgfaphiiSfarid tJth’er scientific litdratnEei'has
c'onsidferable faeility of,versifldation,.and deals, jn.pljaslnt .and
hUHiQKOUS.mood; withvmany ,scientific;,follies which; are. better,
laughed down than gravely disputed.’^'
• i Fr6m The Scotsman. U w v* »u MA'*
“ In 'Mr.. W. H.* Harrlson*S*Zfc$' Ldyi, arid*Pnose' Imaginiiigj
there is a-'good.deaf of broad hffmour ftnd’satiric''p3wfer,''witn a due
loundhtiinrof solid sense:’! v> <= 1' • ~r. ;; ;.i 1 1
• ^ '^T'rorii Thi Bradford Dpily Chronicle.; ■
**Ti,GooarooelMaraienofn8 'difetillyod! MV.^Harrisbn has prodiicecf
a.mQst’ welcome"book...‘How Hadji al Sir&c’aba'c''was Photon
grapnddf yiff'be sdre'ib'mak'e evdi'y'redder roar with laughtef.”
t 1 W SS / From The Bur\dee Daily Advertiser. ' % .
4 “ With such.'a ffee.and easy authorat is naturally to be_expected
that his 'subjects,sliQuld bear some trace of ..this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and.ind,eed they .are as free ahd easy as himself... .Thef
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhy Hirrdcal swing,
. The work is very elaborately bound in' cloth aiid^ilt. . • 1*A;
gorgeous design! Upon the' cover... .-If oiil"'readef3‘wish to-eh.-
Hourage lazirfeSif’tlie'y have almost desdrvingVoBject iu*'a‘very
clever ahd versattlenmember of the ofder.'J‘A \ v« ,'w ,*J a
, , ; *. j_ Fsom^The Liverpool Daily.Cdui^er.^ .
. “ In his hanilsomely.bgund gnd griflQjiigiiardcd Lazy Lays, Mr.
William Ilillarrispn proyides.a giftjiopk elegant in its appear-',
mice and entertaining.frL ltsJgoiitentS... ./The author is imbued
with tlie true sfiirit’of lmmour/'and'kmuses all while offending
none.’-’
\ ■ • * »>« F-rbyd-The-Western Daily Pmi (Bristol).
. “A volume, from Hie versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
welj-Jcnoivn contributor to the London and provincial press, and
ieditSr -ot The. Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re-
‘hiind us of the Ingotftsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The,Lay.of . the Macebtfarers, and some of The tyobblejjaw Ballads
Would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are .exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentimeht &nd poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able tp mdpt readers/’ -
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing-iR the book is ‘ How Hadji A1 Shacabac was
Photographed.’ - It-is an admirable addition to bur hot' too ex-
tefisive bomic literature.': The story is one pf which extracts
would ,hot give an gdequate idea; it' is intensely' humorous....
Those who wish to obt&in a handsome giffrbook’ of an amusing
nature/ will-findWhat they want in The Lazy Lays." .
■Jif-m, i From .The Bristol Daily Post. - vt*
*»-^AHSBri&rAjecillec6oii* of Versed and prose, essays of Ttiiliqual
ISSjSk- ..^PiEfterlQUehnd sentimental Verses belong to the type
ch Tafy. roftpErlTgacSsrirl -
■mm
.. _ 7s pr'6cTueti6ns.”iJP
oil. Netpa. E
VUt i3.“.after,Hiq.manner QfBariinjn. Ilpod, Mark Twain, or any
of thOTe’m^lTyspuHAvIroqo-Tinift!Mfnucli go6d' in tlieir day and
•generatiMi as.-the iiVtktTi's tpjhtHe •mosf seiVous works. The Lmjs
pg'erblutaysAoiijginaA-^pmpMmhat shriai®,, «cheraUy comic,-' but
. never vulgar.
'From fFliezMalterfnNew$. K
and” a cast ’of its
authbr’s'mbnd J Hisa work-of "great Tb TOi“ghh1 iffsaiidy; full of
livSly uhagihihgs^and^bdld' outsh61cen*thouglife,'{iBo'udding in
tbifffcrnesS. and-'paeiips; SpSl-Sfilh wiMt'b'itVh 1 rnttun^r^-and one
thatmayifhs'l’ead'many timesl'6vei'.i*ftfrii;ewget-ui^)f the bfeok' is
veyyffandsome.yilVi*''''-' i «»■— .Mnpiw
From The FolkestoneNms?*.
T “A- niimber of - clever sketohe’s 'and poemsf, arabWa Iffl i.itt^
being aftsetids* cfftp4$e)StentilHecl(«®c4M^p5^ifi^j,I-f(®&ta!^, whicli
pppeja'ad/.iu. the :icol]Ltmns'J^>f,i;ithis#jpaperr 3ASh9¥t <.ttme ago,
and’ nrthehi erehked .•-snchw,a'*yh*,i’8'' jS&fiJJWPSwls&Lsfewph
Aml* metnber, of theflown iCouftcik.olfieittlly called, the, aUejition of
kcMdycn.andi&ormrMmi-AfM'clkestonedb'ftKe, Ujttnesgues in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,"out the membtr&M&filbyylilsiygljfdjat'the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The M§y°r saiddhal he,
did not mind themA r;'l“(ll containa ffdulef "
.. . .. . . . . , . IwwAAtfifcSJ ]Ioa nts
apd prose essays,- is bound: in cloth riphly gilti apd has aupriginnl
design.of.no or’dipary'merit 011 theicpyefi^.BJ4 piSti JhifcMfc.'
Cbtain attiey ^Ss^fSbyatHlp1 FmMIiMg?of
*• W.“HhHAmit?ON1',38,-Grea'| Russeil-sfrb^t^®9|nI^,r>j^.C'
J MESMERIS^t'AND^IT^-^p,
u Pa**«iV-'«': 6rK a Em
.vCi/J;(4e- ;wir.. GREGoiiyj E/R.gyEr, jPwf&soiyipf
■ ^Cherim^ye?at^Mliimingim¥uwe$0i/,pSl$k* jo .
h.I)e4ipkt^l. py vth%.^htH^i^ys5ernussio^to.-.;HiSl-
m .. the.,Dul!;e;of.Aigy!l. . i;.wi,ii';:*2:* ' -
:3?BdjgQ(5b3d^5ihdR,sligBtlS'rQvisifd»a5.drabridg§'d Uidttjbnh US
r its hualitKfaniiiStbe the'cSieq®esWqrgp,.wpjJtte(ve.^p'uhHshed
feiaitnisliKiqnfryiin 0onhe6tiuh witmB^rituaHsal. 1 ••>,*»• ( S
S:- •-'Mv-'-bj.-is-;: a4 >■ fl.'.rfi-a ..4 V> ■!. .v Ji .. I . r
' Just puphshed,. price 5s., or. 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies,
post-free for 21s.:^Copies'may'also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
1 ■*" CONTENTS.- -
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causjpg. Mesmeric" Sleep,—The Sleeper Mesmeric.
State—It. Occurs Spontaneously' in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena, of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility-to
Pain. ■ 7 , mA E|j , .' ■ .
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
j.ect in Various Ways-^Striking,Expression. of-Feelings, in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the SiaehM'^yaijious
Ddgfees oP'SuscSptibility’—Slbbp' 'pa. a iwidj^t a
Distance—Attraction Towards the'Operator—Effect in ’the Waking
StSte oi Commands Glveh'in’the'Sleen. " • < - :
CHAPTER- III -—Sympathy.,— .Compiunity mf Sensations; of
Embtions — Danger .of ’Rash) Expenmentst-TuBlib 'Exhibitions of
Dffabtfug Adjutage''— SVHipathy/witli The*B.yStand3ntk»Tfaought-
; Reading—SoiircesbfError—Medical Intuition—Sympatlictic^Viirn-
ings^-Sympaffiiesf'and "Antipathies—Existence offa' PcouHar Force
or Influence.* ! "'It3” *
* CHAPTER IV:—^Direct Clairvoyance.or Lucid Vision, without
the 'Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through' Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—Introvision. ■*' *—•
.CHAPTER V>:—Lucid Preyisionr—Duration of,Sleep, etc.,. Prea
dieted*—Prediction of Changes'in the'Health or StSte of the Seef—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestion's in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis's Method.and its Results—The Impressible-State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid's Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
pH AFTER .VII:—Trance,. Natuml and Accidental; Mesmeric—
. Trance'Produced at Will bythe silmBctS^-Col. Townsend—Fakeers-i
bExtasis—Extaticsiibu alblrnnoS'terS^tLuminbusEmanations—Extasis
: bften'Predicted—M; Caliagnet’s1 ExtaticsWftiSiis 'of•Hie’S liritual
World. •'' W 1 H '■ pf - mj* * >-f- p » J * > .
* CHAFTERiVIII :; Phrehb-Mesmerism—Prosffessi'of/t'nmioiogy—
jj Effects pf^Toitchirig the’Heaff'iivtES’Sleej^-Vanfety’in-iillffBlfEhbm-
ena^-Suggestiofl-r-SympatliyATfiefeiai’e C'a.ifes- in,- vWiIclT'thSie^.ct,
s and bthersintwhich" tney’do npt'Aci^JPhehbffieha jlfescflbed—The
;*LoWbr *AnimaIs*SusceptFnle,rof*Mesmerisffi3//BRscii}^tioh 'Am>ng
Amm^ls ^.Instinct —Sympathy of /Animals'’—'Srfail^Telegraph
1 Fouffded on It. *fc. -• "VBj..r v- 4
* CHAPTER IXi—Action.of Magnets, Crystals.'.etci.'dn the Human
t Frame-tRe8e^r6hes:of''Relchenbacn-t-H{s Odyle* is’Inehtical withahe
' Mesmefic Fluid^oftMesmetTofeyith; the Influfenfe which CausesThe
Mesrfietic’PheqomenajpOdylicar/Mesni.ericiLight—Aurora."Borealis
Artiiicialiy?Prpduced^Mekiheri'sed*Water— UsefuDApfillcationS of
MdSmerftmV^lftySiblogical, Therap'ehtffcaffetc^TreatmentblpHiSan-.
ity, 'Magic/’Divination, .Witchcraft, etc.tTexi51ained''by"]VIeimefISin,
and ‘Traced Vto.VNaturalj Causes—ApparitioliS'— Second* Sights is
Wakin’g'Clairybyahce-^-Predifi/lons'of Various Kinds. •
* CIIAP-TER' X’^.Ah Exi)l’anatK)jL^f,'the Phenomena Attempted or
^uggfested—A Force'(Odyle) Univers\]ly’Diffused,uCeFtaihlyeExifets,
and*ig Probably the Medium;ofjSygmatliy• and-IiUfldWlsion^Its i
Ghara'ctei'S—fBiffibvdtieff of-the Subiect—Enedts of O'dyle—SoWnfem *
bulism—Suggestion,''Sympathy—Thoughyte'adi^r^Lucid|A?il)mi—
Odylic. Emanations-—Qdylic'iTracesi.fellpwbd im by-LuSd^SuMPcts—r
Magic and’Witchcraft—TheTdagic Qryst9rarid1^.irror[\ite?rinducel
.Walking .Clah'voyanee—Univers'aPSyniffathy—Lucid‘Perception of
the Future; \ '’*• yu .
* CHAPTER* XDT—interest FeltAn fM^esmeri^m by Men of Science
—Due Li rt) itstof jsciejltiflcl Caution—Praotibal llmts—Conditions of
Success ih'Eiqterimenfe^Causerbf Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thintf-fCdutibnsYd befStudehtAOpposition to be Expected.
* CH-ffPr'ERVXIPr—PHeridinena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking Stated-Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
StateA-Mff. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—t
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking;
Clairvoyance,-Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity; when(Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magici
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of tlie. Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
info Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmemm in the SlCop
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision. ■
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Oases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance-Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy-
man, with-Cases-^Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes 1
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI ;—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
JRcmarks,and Summary. 4 j " : ' jjn T>
London: W. H. Harrison, 88, Great RusseH*stteet,-WiC.
Printed for the Proprietor by BisvifRiijtu:; & Qo.,. at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High ijolborn,.
in the Parish of St. Andrew-'above-B^r1 and St.-George/
the Martyr, London, and publiehed by E. V?. AujKN, Avo‘
Maria-lftne, London) E.O, • -j. ' * 0 j.1' : 7 '
