llEGISTERED AS A NEWSPAPER.
SK® joiil{Kai< ^d114x^5<.
©Ibtst Pttepgti: faif| Spiritualism in feat Iritain.
No, 359.—'(VoL.XV.—No. 2.) LONDON ; FRIDAY, JULY 11, 1879, Published Weekly; Pri<pe Twopence.
THE IOLBOM RESTAURAIT, 218, HIHI IOLBOM.
One ol tlie Siglits and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian. Establishments, with the quiet and order essential to English Customs.
DINNERS AND LUNCHES FROM DAILY BILL OF FARE.
A Table d’Hote, at Separate Tables, every Evening in the Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the
Duke’s Salon,
UVom G to 8.309 3s. Gd..
Including Two Soups, Two kinds of Fish, Two Entries, Joints, Sweets, Cheese (in variety), Salad, &c.,
with Ices- and Dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-class Instrumental Music.
Now Ready.
The THIRD EDITION of Vol.. I. of' MR. .SERJEANT COX'S'
lECHAHISI OE IAH.
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Yol. Ill completing the work, and treating of “The Mechanism in Action,”
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant, and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine) that
PEARS’ TRAHSPAREET SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by PEARS, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
JAMES IALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majestys Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOYER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON? N,W.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July H, 1870.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos; Street,, Cavendish Square, London, W.
Pee^ipenx—Me. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be. obtained,on application to,
FRANCIS K. MUNTONj- Honorary Secretary, Wi-llesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).,
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAYEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “‘M.A. (Oxon.).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : its Place and Function
—Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Revelation—Christianity : its Place and Human Elements.
London: Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
' Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth, Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
MR, C. E< ■WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB^3 CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home* daily from 12 till ,5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenipgs from 8 ©’block for reception of
friends.
N.B.—Mr. Williams’s temporary address during
alterations in the above premises is 13, Milman-street,
W.O. (corner of new Ormond-street).
MR. | J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
RECEIVES DAILY AT
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON,
Close to Oower-street Station.
Lecture? every Sunday evening at Steinway Hall,
Lower Seymour-street, at 7 o’clock precisely. Ad¬
mission Free.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
6, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
By this- mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can he built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health being restored,
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. I do
not confine myself to specialities, but treat all diseases
without medicine whatever. Private circles attended
for developing any form of mediumship; and mes¬
merism or healing taught at patients’ own residence, or
by appointment in Bloomsbury-square. Address all
letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hah, Woolwich.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honorb, Paris.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &c.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Magnetised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs, Nichols, 32, Fpp-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21,
Trafalgar-street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c.
Just Published.
THE FIB ST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with,
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. fid.,
post free. Cloth edition 6s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIRVOYANTE and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair; sex and
age required. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism,
Specialities. At home from 12 till 5 p.m. Patients
treated at their homes when desired. 99, Park-street,
Grosvenor-square, London, W, 
"VT O SALARY.—A French Lady wishes
JLM to meet with a holiday engagement in a. Spirit¬
ualist Family (seven weeks, from 1st of August).
Would do all she could to make herself-pleasant and
useful in return for a congenial home.—L. B., care of
Miss Burke, 38, Great Russeil-street.
Folkestone.—Comfortable Lodg¬
ings on moderate terms. References to Spirit¬
ualists can be given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-
terrace, Folkestone.
ARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is oifered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of (Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Hr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr, Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
tti to uf to SctoD^ awd Etocs #f SpititoaUsw.
No. 359.—VOiLUJVtE PlFTEEN J NUMBER Two,
I^OlSTDOlSr, FRIDAY, JULY 11th, 1879.
I THE SPIRITUALIST | Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Eree within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
13s. per annum within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BIT WILLIAM H. HARRIS ON.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Russia, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Right Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hoh. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. P. Burton, E.R.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika)..
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.., P.R.G.S.
C. 0. Massey; Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. O. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
authpr of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.-
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de . Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Yon Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein).
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H.M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
0. F. Varley, E<q., C.E., F.R.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., MA.
(Oxon). . .
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. K,
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Royal, Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G, Paris!, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Rue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Russell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne; Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia ; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
rpHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the authpr, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta •
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
|| REPETITION OF ONE OF PROFESSOR ZOLLNER’S
EXPERIMENTS WITH PRIVATE MEDIUMS.
BY NICOLAUS WAGNER, PROFESSOR OF ZOOLOGY, AND HONORARY
If MEMBER OF THE IMPERIAL UNIVERSITY AT ST. PETERSBURG.
The reaction against the spiritual movement runs its
| course with the same violence as every fanatical oppo¬
sition. If “ blind faith ” is the motive power of religious
fanaticism, so also is the direction of the contrary move-
|(I ment determined by a force which is quite as illogical—
j/j “blind scepticism.” In the one and the other the cause is
|) | the same—feeling, passionately excited, and resisting every
j 1 cool, matter-of-fact (objective) consideration. There is
i\| no better proof of this than the attacks of the savans
fll upon those of their colleagues who had the inexcusable
j(j temerity to satisfy themselves of the reality of mediumistic
jV; phenomena, and to publish their experiences to the world,
m Until their fall into Spiritualism the work and opinions of
]>| these men were recognised as entirely logical, accurate,
If and satisfying the conditions of scientific inquiry. But
j (| scarcely have these same scientists carried their researches
|ji into the region of mediumistic phenomena, than they are
i /1 forthwith encountered by the feeling of antipathy; and
| 1 that even before the phenomena themselves have been
||f adjudicated upon by sound reason.* Impelled by this
! (i antipathy, even the strongest understanding is blind ; it
I j | seeks support from and attaches itself to such strangely
j(j childish arguments and suppositions, as to any sound
| | thinking and unprejudiced person are in the highest
|) | degree absurd.
iu In the relations of the savans to my colleague, Pro-
| > | lessor Zollner, who lately experimented in the mediumistic
i * Note by translator.—This reminds one of Mr. Crookes : “ It is
i edifying to compare some of the present criticisms with those
! that were written twelve months ago. When I first stated in
| this journal {Quarterly Journal of Science) that I was about to
| investigate the phenomena of so-called Spiritualism, the an-
| nouncement called forth universal expressions of approval. One
j said that niy ‘statements deserved respectful consideration;’
j another expressed ‘profound satisfaction that the subject was
| about to be investigated by a man so thoroughly qualified as,’
| &c.; a third was ‘ gratified to learn that the matter is now
j receiving the attention of cool and clear-headed men of recog-
j nised position in science ; ’ a fourth asserted that ‘ no one could
! doubt Mr. Crookes’s ability to conduct the investigation with
| rigid philosophical impartiality; ’ and a fifth was good enough
| to tell its readers that ‘ if men like Mr. Crookes grapple with
j the subject, taking nothing for granted until it is proved, we
; shall soon know how much to believe.’
j “ These remarks, however, were written too hastily. It was
11 taken for granted by the writers that the results of my experi-
| j ments would be in accordance with their preconceptions. What
, | they really desired was not the truth, but an additional witness
i j in favour of their own foregone conclusion. When they found
i! that the facts which that investigation established could not be
11 made to fit those opinions, why, ‘ So much the worse for the facts.’
1 j They try to creep out of their own confident recommendations by
* I declaring that ‘ Mr. Home is a clever conjurer, who has duped us
1 i all.’ ‘ Mr. Crookes might, with equal propriety, examine the
j performances of an Indian juggler.’ ‘Mr. Crookes must get
y\ better witnesses before he can be believed.’ ‘The thing is too
) I absurd to be treated seriously.’ . ‘ It is impossible, and therefore
) j can’t be.’ ‘ The observers have all been biologised (!), and fancy
> | they saw things occur which never really took place,’ ” &e., &c.—*
r. Crookes’s Researches in. the Phenomena of Spiritualism, p.. 22.
14
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 11, 1879.
field, we have the most complete evidence of the justice
of the above observation. Satisfied through the force and
reality of facts of the entire genuine objectivity of the
mediumistic phenomena, he detailed his investigations.
Put as in the case of the investigations of Crookes and
Boutlerow, so were these also forthwith exposed to sus¬
picion, and set down to clever conjuring; and the name
of the cautious and accurate investigator swelled the sad
list of scientists who had been deceived by (so-called)
charlatans.
Now, since the whole weight of this charge rests on the
merely supposed fraud of the mediums, it will not be
superfluous if I give to the Press the results of some in¬
vestigations, analogous to those of Zollner, which I have
made with non-professional mediums. I do not in the
least expect that this narrative, any more than hundreds
such, will make the slightest impression on the fanaticism
of the sceptic: on the other hand, I have the strongest
belief that it will serve to confirm the growing convic¬
tion of those who are not disinclined to be convinced
by the truth of things.
Since the force of the evidence chiefly depends on
the confidence in the mediums, and in the persons
composing the circle among whom the stances took place,
I Consider it essential first of all to discuss this question,
and to follow it up with some historical statements.
Moved by my and my colleague Boutlerow’s writings in
certain Eussian periodicals, the family of the engineer and
chemist E——, as also some of their intimate friends and
relatives, desired to convince themselves of the reality or
otherwise of the mediumistic phenomena. It must fur¬
ther be remarked that in these families earlier cases of a
mediumistic character had been already observed, but
had been ascribed to different causes, such as accident or
hallucination.
Three ladies took part constantly in the sittings—the
wife of the chemist, Sophia E ; her sister, A, M ;
and her friend, A. L , who had for years been united
with Mrs. E-—— in the most genuine friendship and
sympathy. Gf these ladies the two first were gifted with
very remarkable mediumistic aptitudes. AH three were
distinguished by deep religious feelings, and every decep- ,/
tion, even for a good end, is abhorred by them as a heavy k j
sin. The manifestations occurring almost from the very ' '
first were regarded by them as miraculous, and this
feeling was confirmed as the phenomena became more
and more developed.
The fourth lady, who was likewise constantly present,
was Miss Catherine L ; one of the greatest friends of
Sophia E , the wife of the chemist E . At the
commencement of the stances she was an atheist; all
her convictions leaned to materialism. She held the
principles of the well-known Eussian publicist, Herr
Pisaref, as irrefragable dogmas. The power of the
manifestations shook, and at length overthrew, this
fanaticism of hers.
This small circle was formed with the firm expectation
that it would succeed in demonstrating the mediumistic
manifestations to be simply a further development of
already known physical phenomena. With this object
the table at which they sat was placed upon glass sup¬
ports, and round the feet of the table was wound a wire,
the ends of which were attached to a galvanometer.
Instead, however, of the expected physical phenomena,
the table at the very first stance urgently demanded the
alphabet, and by means of blows with the foot of the
table the following sentence was spelled out:—
“ I suffer because thou believest not.”
“ To whom does that refer ? ” asked those present.
“ To Catherine L——.”
“ Who, then, art thou ? ” asked L——.
|)i “I am thy friend, Olga N 
KI This dearly-loved friend, also an atheist, had died
m about a year before, and on this account Catherine L —
}j was deeply astonished and moved by the information
y communicated through the table. This information,
|) | given in the same seance, referred to different particulars
|(| of an event known only to Catherine L———, and
i) i thoroughly convinced her of the existence of the soul of
n her beloved friend, even though in another world.
Henceforth, the before-mentioned physical experimenta-
j! tion was laid aside, the conversations were more and
more striking, and confirmed their faith in the reality of
another world. This faith soon became a firm conviction
with all. To show the relations of the circle, and
especially of Catherine L , to the phenomena, I here
add some extracts from her diary, which was written for
her own eye only, and communicated to me after her
death, which happened somewhat later.
29th March, 1876, 1.80 a.m. Scarcely had S and
I retired to rest, and left off talking that we might sleep,
than suddenly there sounded a beating on the wall at the
head of my bed. I supposed at first that some one was
probably passing on the stairs adjoining my wall, but
after some minutes the knocking was repeated, and with
such force that S —- also became attentive, and asked
me if I had not knocked. Now I guessed what it was.
“ Probably my Olga is now come to me,” said I. In
assent sounded immediately three times, one after the
other, a muffled blow, as if a soft wall had been struck
with a hammer wrapped up in something soft.
“ Is it thou, Olgchen ?” I asked the spirit aloud. Three
regular knocks answered.
** Can I sleep quietly this night ?” Again the like three
knocks.
30th March, 6.45 p.m.
“Why did you knock at my wall yesterday, Glinka ?”
“ Evil spirits prevent you going to the supper. Thou
wouldstdo it, and hast abandoned this intention. I came
yesterday to say to thee that thou, dear one, shouldest
not obey them. I will not come for a whole week.
I have much to do. On Thursday, after the supper, I
will visit thee.”
“ So, if I take the supper, thou will’st come to me ?”
“Yes ! and I will make thee a present.”
“ What sort of a present ?”
“Thou can’st show it to everyone.”
“ Thou will’st give it to me on the day of the Com¬
munion ?”
“ Yes, in the church.”
1st April. I have confessed. After the supper I went
and took my place in the church. Suddenly in my
hand there came a nosegay of white rose and myrtle,
j tied with a lock of the dear to me well-known hair ! That
! was the promised present.
Come home from church, we sat ourselves at the table.
Our heavenly friend was already among us. Her first
; words were—
“ I wish you all happiness. I am happy for you. My
darling ! art thou content with my present ?”
“What significations have the rose and myrtle ?”
“ Pure love. Eternity.”
I could scarcely restrain my tears.
80th April, 10 o’clock. S. E , sitting on a chair,
fell into a trance, of which the spirit informed us.
Afterwards a hand was shown to us, one after the
, other; at our wish it touched our hands, and came close
) j to the sight of those of us who had not been able to dis-
(i tinguish it clearly enough. I asked the spirit whether I
) | could kiss this hand ? The spirit replied that its hand
c would be between the table and the cloth, and that I
)! might kiss it through the cloth. Twice I kissed the
July 11, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
dear hand, and convinced myself thereby thoroughly of
its reality : it was a living, flexible hand.
I have given these extracts to show the genuine and
cordial relations of the deceased to these observers of
the phenomena which took place before their eyes.
Again, I repeat, that she wrote her diary for herself
alone, and probably never thought of the possibility
that extracts from it might appear in the Press. The
circle itself, in the sittings of which she took part,
was exclusively interested in the phenomena for their
own sake, and was utterly and altogether unconcerned
with the Spiritualistic propaganda. All the usual
mediumistic phenomena, such as the self-moving of
objects, lights, appearance of hands, &c., took place at
these stances. Especially often were objects brought to
the circle, most frequently pictures of saints, hair, and
flowers. During a stance in the spring the whole table
was literally covered with flowers. During another
stance /the daughter of Sophia E , a young lady of
fourteen years old., received a live green frog, to make
up for the loss of one that had died a few days before.
This frog remained with her for some days alive, and
afterwards disappeared.
On one occasion the spirit of Olga N——— declared
that she would fully materialise, and designated Sophia
E as the strongest medium, through whose means the
materialisation would be effected. On the evening
appointed by the spirit the medium was laid upon a sofa
and separated from the rest by a curtain formed by hang¬
ing up a plaid. She remained, however, so far visible
that her position could always be observed. It was half
dark in the room. After the medium had fallen into a
trance she was several times raised in the air, placed
upon the boards, and again carried back to the sofa.
Afterwards a white figure, covered with a thick veil, was
raised behind and above the curtain. Quietly, calmly,
it came over the curtain to the table at which the party
were sitting. Then it went to Catherine L———, embraced
and kissed her, touched her face with its hand, and dis¬
appeared, whilst raised again in the air. At the next
seance, which was in darkness, the phenomenon was
repeated, and Catherine L  was covered with a veil,
which was left behind upon her.* After this phenomenon
the sittings of the circle almost ceased. Amazed with
what they had seen they were all convinced that it would
be a sin, after these proofs of the reality of another
world and of a higher power, to continue the stances,
though at the same time they did not refuse individual
communications and instructions from that world, and
for this purpose availed themselves from time to time of
the usual means of intercourse, such as table tipping and
psychography. Of course, therefore, the phenomena
did not cease, and they were not seldom concerned in
different events which happened to the families of the
mediums.
All this had gone on for about a year, up to the
winter of 1877, when I accidentally made the ac¬
quaintance of the chemist E   and his family.
Entertaining the wish to receive some proofs of the
objectivity and reality of the phenomena, I begged
some of those who had taken part in the earlier
stances to afford me the opportunity. I obtained their
entire consent, and found the greatest readiness to
* The condition of the medium during the trance made a deep
•impression on all present, the most lasting one, naturally, upon
her husband. After the seance, she was for some days: ill; at the
Same time there appeared upon her left side a broad blood-swollen
spot. (Compare the description of a materialisation from the left
side of the medium, Dr. Monck, in Psychische Studicn, 1877.—
Note i by the editor). These unfortunate results were supposed
by the sitters to be owing to their having put forward the seance
contrary to the appointed time.
>j comply with my wish, although the sentiments of the
ju whole circle were openly opposed to my opinions,
f This opposition was especially marked in the case of
K | Catherine L , who, as compensation for her discarded
i ! materialism, was now fanatically addicted to ultra-ortho-
|}| doxy. She continually maintained against me that no
m evidences of these things could ever convince any one,
j)j since they were matters of faith and not of knowledge.
||| Such being the relations of the circle, it was not to be
V expected that we should obtain any decided results.
During the first sitting in which I took part, and which
| (| was held in a dim light, a hand was formed above the
|) j small table, which was covered with a cloth, and after-
||j wards came out from under the cloth, remaining above
|} | the table some minutes, and, gently moving, touched those
m who inclined themselves towards it. This was the only
\)\ materialisation, and the only remarkable phenomenon in
j' | the series of not very numerous stances which lasted up
[I to the end of the winter.
Catherine L  had long suffered from a chronic
I|l catarrh, which at this time took the form of consumption.
|)l Her disposition was still hostile to my objects* so that
I) i we were compelled to give up the seances. She died in
Kj the arms of Mrs. Sophia E , amidst the proofs of her
j>i love, friendship, and affection.
[A long note is here omitted. It relates to particulars
|) | about Miss L and her funeral.—Translator.']
In the autumn of the year 1878 the relations of the
Kj circle to the mediumistic phenomena were completely
|)| changed. After the spirit of the deceased Catherine
(I L  had given consent to the continuance of the
j>j sittings, and promised good success, remarking, however,
M at the same time, that the results would be received with
|; | distrust, the circle was widened by the addition of some
| (| young people; the engineer, the mechanist M—?—, was
Kj one of the constant sitters. Sometimes the physician
|)j L took partin the sittings.
In the very first sitting we were directed by raps to
j\j repeat the experiment of Professor Zollner ; and since it
j)j is the object of this publication to confirm that experi-
j(j ment, I will not dwell upon other more or less remarkable
i) j phenomena which occurred at our seances.
We took an ordinary folding slate, with clasps; on
| {j each side within was fastened^ by means of wax, paper
I! j blackened with soot. The slate was then tied together
j with a string, and the ends of the string, as well as the
edges of the slate, were fastened with four seals with the
I signet of the chemist E , and the signet was entrusted
to me for safe custody at home. We were informed by
j means of raps that this slate must lie upon the table for
j four seances, and impressions would then be found upon
it. At the seances the table was always covered with a
cloth, and between this and the table the slate was laid.
With the development of the phenomena the slate began
j to move ofdtself. It went from one to the other, in order
! that it might remain for some minutes under the hands of
each of those present.
In the third sitting we were enjoined to seal the slate
j with seven seals, with another signet of the chemist
j E . We asked, “ Is there anything on the slate ? ”
It was answered, “I do not know,’;’ Thereupon we
asked if we might open it ? The answer was, “ Yes, you
can.” We opened the slate ; both papers were untouched,
j We closed it again, bound, and sealed it with seven seals.
The signet I again took away with me. A.t the following
J sitting violent movements of the slate again occurred, and
j(j finally I was directed to lay the slate on my knees. I
Kj did so, and then placed my hands again upon tffe table,
j/j For some minutes the slate remained quiet; then I had
Kj the sensation as if some one lightly touched it for a
l|| while. Soon after we were told, through sharp decided
16
THE SPIRITUALIST, July 11, 1879.
raps, to take away the slate. To the question, “ Is there
anything on it?” a strong definite affirmative answer
was returned. “ Can we open it ? ” “ Yes! ”
We struck a light (the seance was in the dark), opened
the slate, and perceived an impression on each side:
upon the right, that of a hand; upon the left, that of a
foot. All three female mediums and the chemist E 
at once recognised in the impression the hand of Catherine
L , which had characteristic peculiarities. It was
unusually large and long for a female hand, the little
finger being strongly bent out. The foot, also unusually
large, could not find room enough on the slate, and this
impression, moreover, was not very clear. The hand
was much more sharply impressed, if not quite so distinct
as was the case with Zollner’s impression. (I here add
the copy of our impression.)* For greater certainty
this impression was shown to a sculptor, who well knew
the hand of the deceased, and he at once asked, “ Is this
an impression of the hand of Catherine L ?” He
supposed that the impression had been taken during her
life. We were apparently ourselves partly to blame for
the want of distinctness in the impression. Every one
who is familiar with mediumistic phenomena knows their
whimsicality, and that promises given at seances are often
not fulfilled. Not much expecting success, we went only
superficially to work in the preparation of the slate—did
not fasten the paper with smooth regularity over the
sides of the slate, and the soot was not thickly and
regularly spread. Had we only found anything when we
opened the slate after the third seance, which would
have given us but a remote assurance of future results,
we should then have rectified every defect in our prepara¬
tions.
The above * recorded objective proof I regard as
sufficient to obviate every suspicion of deceit. Had it
been even possible to imitate the seal and open the slate,
yet was it at any rate impossible, and indeed without
aim or object, to imitate the impression of the hand of
the deceased C. L . All those who took part in the
seance were “ believersall were in like manner interested
in the experiment: no one among them was so depraved
and mischievous as to contrive so cruel a mystification,
cruel in relation to the persons to whom the memory of
the deceased was sacred. That young lady was more
than a relative in the family of the chemist E- ; one
could not but see the joyful rapture of the mediums in
the moment when they recognised in the impression the
hand of Catherine L- . All crossed themselves and
wept: all regarded this result as a miracle.
After this phenomenon some of those present proposed
to terminate the sittings, since no better, more objective,
more all-convincing, complete proof could be obtained;
I, however, wished to continue them, though they must
at all events soon cease. The next sitting had already
lost the characteristics of our usual seances. The pheno¬
mena were languid and intermittent. The spirit of
Catherine L declared that it could not appear for a
whole month. Other disturbing circumstances con¬
curred, so that we resolved to postpone our seances to a
more opportune time. An unexpected misfortune inter¬
vening compels us to renounce them for a long time,
perhaps for always.
In giving this simple history, with its child-like full
conviction and faith in the personality of the spirit
(Fetishism), I repeat that it can have no effect upon the
stubborn scepticism of those who have become the slaves
of their h priori convictions. This narrative can have
only an irritating tendency with such, excite their
* Hiere is here a footnote relating to the illustration, omitted
in this translation, as the illustration itself is not given in the
copy before the translator,—Note hy Translator,
| scepticism up to a fanatical point, and drive them, even
! should they admit the facts, to discover some explanation
| even more senseless than Carpenter’s “ unconscious cere¬
bration.” But those with whom Fetishism* is no sub-
I jective product of our brain and feeling, who recognise
i the necessity and legitimacy of individuality as the lever
i of the development of humanity and of well-being, those
I will find in these facts the proof and confirmation of their
I views.
Again, these facts convince us of the necessity of widen-
| ing the domain of recognised science and its methods and
means for the exploration of the invisible and unknown
j world, of the existence of which we have in our hearts
from childhood so clear, so simple, and so warm a pre-
| sentiment.—Translation of Detached Sheet from “ Psychische
! Studien,” July 1879.
| | A NOVEL KIND OF PSYCHOGRAPHY.
|j BY LOUISA ANDREWS,
j(j I HAVE just received from Mr. Epes Sargent a detailed
j | account of certain phenomena occurring under his own
m observation and in his own house. With his permission
m I send you such extracts as I think will interest your
I) | readers.
I | Some statements in regard to the singular form of
j;j psychography described in the letter referred to have
j (| been published ; but as the conditions under which the
|)j writing was obtained were, in this case, exceptionally
j \ j satisfactory, I am sure the account given by my esteemed
j(i friend will be appreciated as a peculiarly trustworthy
i) j record of very remarkable facts. The letter from which
|(j I shall quote was written on the 23rd of June, and the
|) | writer says ;—
‘‘The day before yesterday, in the evening, Mr.
HI Robert Cooper, Mrs. Thayer (the flower medium), Mr.
HI Colville, and Mr. Powell and his wife (the former a
fvl medium for some remarkable phenomena), called upon
j) me, the object being to introduce Mr. Powell, a man of
| (| about thirty-four, I should say, who only found out last
!) November that he had strong medial powers. He is
; / j controlled by one Tecumseh, an Indian spirit, and on. his
Kj forefinger something exudes, with which he can cover a
i) l slate with writing. He took my forefinger, without
Hi touching the inside tip of it, and immediately a little
| | protuberance, or something, seemed , to form upon it,
I) 1 and he could write with my finger as well as with his
| (| own. He wrote with my wife’s forefinger in this way,
I > | also with that of a lady visitor. That there was nothing
|{| on the slate producing the mark was evident from his
if using my slate, and having me use it in the same way.
j) i “ But the really miraculous event of the evening was
|\| this—the slates being all under my own charge and
|)| carefully washed under my superintendence. The
j|| Indian control had left, and the performances were, as
|) | we supposed, at an end, Mr. Colville being entranced for
| | an improvisation. Suddenly a spirit that rarely comes
Kj got possession of Powell, and he called for a big slate.
> Then, standing up, side by side with me (all Mrs.
i (i Powell’s movements being watched by me), close under
|Ji the blaze of three gaslights in the.chandelier, he allowed
i)| me to select a clean slate—clean on both sides—and
l\ j place it in his hands. One side of it was held by the
m medium, the other side by myself. Waving his fore-
I (I finger in the air he flourished it rapidly, without touch-
i) | ing the surface of the slate, as if drawing a picture;
!( then paused a moment, and seemed to be writing. Then,
||1 loosing his hold, he told me to look; and on the under
l)| surface of the slate was a neatly-drawn flower, with the
Kj * “ FetiscMsmus ” is the word used, but not, it is conceived, in
the sense that word bears in English.—Note by Translator.
July 11, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
17
name of the control, Wynonie, written under it: this in j)
the face of six spectators besides myself. Nothing could j!
be more irresistibly convincing. All the conditions |)
were perfect, and there was no conceivable loophole for K
fraud or sleight-of-hand on any one’s part. There was j \
no tampering with slates. I had the four he brought 1/
placed on my right on a large sofa occupied by myself j(
alone, while most of the time—except when we stood up j)
at the last—Mr. Powell sat on my left upon a chair ;u
where he could not reach a slate. There was no look h
nor movement to excite distrust. His sleeves were j)
closely tied with twine; his fingers were wiped and j!
examined. j)
“ The concluding phenomena—drawing and writing I (
in the air, and covering the under surface of a slate j)
thereby with written words and a picture—distanced k
the other phenomena so far that they seemed to sink n
into insignificance, truly remarkable as they are. Mr. j)
Powell was tested in Philadelphia by a committee j(
of six scientific men (two of them physicians), and they )
reported in regard to the protuberance on the finger )
of the person writing:— v
“ ‘ The microscopic appearance was that of albuminous )
cells filled with a pigment. There were also fragments ||
of cuticle and epiphytal structures. The chemical )
analysis showed that the substances were composed of j <
albumen, starch, phosphate of lime and phosphate of j)
ammonia, with an amorphous pigment matter, without j(
any traces of lead, slate, or other substances ordinarily n
used for writing on slates.’ )
“ The fingers had been thoroughly washed in chemicals, (
the slates washed, and every precaution taken. The ;
committee reported that they resorted to many (
expedients to account for the phenomena on other j
principles than those claimed by Mr. Powell (the j(
spiritual), but their efforts were unsuccessful. They »
were perfectly satisfied there was no deception. The |/
names of the members of the committee are Professor K
William Paine, M.D., B. F. Dubois, John P. Hayes, 0
Alfred Lawrence, Reuben Garter, M.D., and Francis J. k
Keffer—the last-named being the only Spiritualist of the V
number. j)
“My experiments with Mr. Powell took place in my a
own library, and the conditions were such as to pre- i)
elude utterly all theories of imposture, aid from a person K
in collusion, or hallucination produced on the minds of j)
lookers-on.” i)
I will add nothing to the above quotation, except the K
expression of a hope that statements made by eo able, |)
experienced, and conscientious an investigator may be <
fully appreciated by all interested in the subject.
1, Bernard-street, Eussell-square, July 7th, 1879, \
SPIRITUALISM IN EGYPT,
The little Society of Spiritualists at Cairo has broken K
up from a somewhat remarkable cause; Count )
Nichichiewich, one of the most active workers in con- j
nection with Spiritualism in Egypt, says that at first )
everything was flourishing in connection with the Cairo ;
Society, but it let in new members too easily, and soon \
found within its ranks a number of persons who had <
been attracted solely by the charms of a lady who was )
the chief medium. The Society has been brought to an )
end by mutual consent, after a troubled existence of one \
year’s duration. )
Stances are held in several of the principal towns in (
Egypt, and Count Nichichiewich wishes the movement /
there to take a more organised form.
WHO WROTE SHAKESPEARE’S PLAYS ?
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OF “ LETTERS TO
MISS MARTINEAU.”
No doubt Ben Jonson, being in the secret, wrote lines
in praise of Shakespeare, because he could not praise the
works in any other name; but he omits the name of
William Shakespeare in his list of the great wits of his
time, a thing quite impossible if he had believed Shake¬
speare to have been the author of the plays. The same of
Sir Tobie Matthew, who clearly knew the secret too, by
the wording of that P.S. in his letter to Bacon—“ The
most prodigious wit that ever I knew, of my nation and
of this side of the sea, is of your lordship’s name, though
he be known by another;” and hence Sir Tobie’s praise
of Bacon as follows, and the ignoring of Shakespeare:
—“We have also rare compositions of minds amongst
us, which looks so many fair ways at once that I
doubt it will go near to pose any other nation
of Europe to muster out in any age four men who, in so
many respects, should excel four such as we are able to
show—Cardinal Wolsey, Sir Thomas More, Sir Philip
Sidney, and Sir Francis Bacon; for they were all a kind
of monsters in their several ways.” “ The fourth was a
creature of incomparable abilities of mind, of a sharp
and catching apprehension, large and faithful memory,
plentiful and sprouting invention, deep and solid judg¬
ment for as much as might concern the understanding
part—a man so rare in knowledge, of so many several
kinds, indeed with the facility and felicity of expressing
it all, in so elegant, significant, so abundant, and yet so
choice and ravishing a way of words, of metaphors, and
allusions, as perhaps the world has not seen since it was
a world.” This may seem a great hyperbole and strange
kind of riotous excess of speech, but the best means of
putting me to shame will be for you to place any man of
yours by this of mine. And, in the meantime, even this
little makes a shift to show that the genius of England is
still not only eminent, but predominant, for the assem¬
bling great variety of those rare parts which used to be
incompatible anywhere else.” We have the same mag¬
nificent praise from Osborne and other contemporaries,
who speak from personal observation. I shall have com
vinced no one by what I have written, but perhaps may
induce a few to read Judge Holmes’s splendid volume, or
at least have a fuller apprehension of the vast and varied
genius of Francis Bacon, and just such a man as we
should suppose must have been the author of the playg.
Boulogae-sur-Mer, France.
Whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist. He who
would gather immortal palms must not be hindered by the name
of goodness, but must explore if it be goodness. Nothing is at
last sacred but the integrity of your own mind. Absolve you
to yourself and you shall have the support of the world.—
Emerson.
Lunacy Law Reform.—On the first instant, Mrs. Louisa
Lowe, hon. sec. of the Lunacy Law Reform Association, lectured
at the Quebec Hall, Great Quebec-street, “ On the Duty of
Spiritualists as regards the Lunacy Laws.” She said that the
question of the Lunacy Laws, important as it was to the whole
nation, was of especial importance to Spiritualists, in the same way
that the question of religious toleration had been of special im¬
portance to the early Christians. From the bigotry of the Lunacy
Commissioners, who she stated to have declared Spiritualism to be
insanity, all Spiritualists were exposed to especial danger. Dr.
Carter Blake was in the chair, and stated that the evidence given
before the late Select Committee on Lunacy Law raised questions
about the actions of certain of the Lunacy Commissioners, and
rendered a Royal Commission of Inquiry into their conduct
highly necessary. Petitions to Parliament and memorials to the
Prime Minister, the Home Secretary, and the Lord Chancellor
praying for a Royal Commission, were unanimously passed.
18
THE S P IE ITU A LIS T.
July 11, 1879.
A HAUNTED HOUSE AT SHANKLIN.
BY F. W. PERCIYAL, M.A. !)
Some years ago I was staying with the late Sir Gilbert !)
Scott, and in speaking of Shanklin he told me that he j /
had once taken a house there which was haunted, but I K
did not at the time ascertain what had occurred while he j/
was living in it. His autobiography, entitled Personal (
and Professional Recollections, has lately been edited by j>
his eldest son, Mr. Gilbert Scott, and the house in ques- |
tion is alluded to as follows on page 252: “On one \{
occasion we took another house there (at Shanklin), the j(
grounds of which extended to the very edge of the K
* chine,’and which proved to be haunted.” I)
To this the editor has appended the following note, in <
which he gives his own recollections of what took place j)
at the house, and I think that they will be of general |)
interest. Possibly some of your readers, who are now |\
at Shanklin, or intend to visit it this summer, will make |>
inquiries on the spot, and publish the results of their j(
investigations. Haunted houses are so rare, and zealous K
psychologists are now so numerous, that “ the letting |)
Value of the villa” is not likely “to suflE'er” even if the K
footsteps are still to be heard. |)
In a letter which I have just received from Mr. Gilbert |<
Scott he says : r There is little that I can add to the facts |)
respecting the haunted house at Shanklin, stated in my k
note in the Recollections, The sounds were most un- ||
mistdkable. I can now recall how clearly I used to hear |)
the pacing tread when kneeling near the window at It
family prayers, the comparative silence allowing them to |)
be the better heard.” u
The house may no longer exist, but if it can be j)
identified, it would be interesting to know whether “ the |)
village story ’’ remains unaltered, and whether it has any j<
foundation in fact. I /
Note by the Editor of ilPersonal and Professional j)
Recollections.” |s
I well remember the circumstances. Every evening j
after dark footsteps, as of a man pacing slowly up and jj
down the verandah, upon the garden front of the house, |(
were distinctly to be heard. We at first took it to be the |)
gardener. Finding that this was not the case, we boys |(
Used to lie in wait, and when the footsteps were heard, |\
leap out into the verandah. I can well recollect doing j)
this upon a bright moonlight night, and our amazement |(
at finding no one. This failing, we stretched things j>
across the track, so as to render it impossible for any one j /
to walk there in the dark without stumbling, but these \
interfered in no way with the even regularity of the >
strange footfalls. <
Another time we strewed the flagging with sand, and )
when the footsteps were again heard, we went out with a \
lantern and carefully examined the sanded pavement: \
not a trace of any kind was to be found. I do not remem- )
her that we ever thought of there being anything super- \
natural in the matter, only the noises were unaccountable, i)
and so strongly piqued our curiosity. Our groom, who I
slept in the house, came one morning about this time to i
my mother, and asked for leave to go to his home. When j<
pressed for his reason for this sudden wish, he stated that ] *
he had in the early dawn seen by his bedside a ghostly jj
female figure, from which he inferred that his j <
mother, his only female relative, was in danger. He |(
was with some difficulty persuaded to wait the result j,
of a letter to his mother, who, of coursej was found to j1
be well enough. We thought no more of this, judging it,
in spite of the extraordinary impression which it had j
evidently made upon him, to be nothing but a dream of j
indigestion. More than a year after this we happened to j
meet some friends of ours who, as w© then found, had
occupied the same house during part of the following
season. ; They asked us whether we had not been dis¬
turbed by ghostly noises, and so forth, and told us that
they had themselves been so annoyed that they had had
to leave the house, and that after giving it up they had
ascertained that every one in the village knewrthe house
to be “ haunted,” but that the fact was carefully kept
secret lest the letting value of the villa should suffer.
The village story goes—I know nothing of the truth of
this—that in that house, in about the year 1820, a wicked
uncle murdered his niece and ward in a cellar which is
accessible only by a trap-door in the floor of the room in
which our groom slept. The old gentleman is said to
have been accustomed to pace up and down that verandah
after dark for many years, during which the crime
remained undetected, t attach no particular value to
these facts myself, but as my father has referred to them,
and the evidence is first-hand, it may be worth while to
give it. The footfalls, the attempts made to discover
their cause, the fact that the groom made that statement
to my motherland that he was without a doubt sincerely
alarmed, l ean vouch for. I also heard myself the state¬
ment of the lady who rented the house the next season.
Of the rest I can only say—
“ I know not how the truth may be,
I tell the tale as ’twas told me.”—Em
MATERIALISED SPIRITS.
Last Wednesday night, at a seemee held at the house
of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-
square, London, while Mr. Williams, the medium, was
held by both hands in the darjr, by Mr. Serjeant Cox on
the one side of him and Mrs. Duncan on the other, a
living spirit form was seen several times by everybody
present. It was floating over the table, robed in white,
and it illuminated itself momentarily with a flashing light
held in its hands. The other witnesses present were
Mrs. Gregory, Archdeacon Dunbar, Mrs. Wiseman, Mr.
Annesley Mayne, of the Junior Carlton Club ; Miss M.
Houghton, Mr. Townsend, Mdlle. Huet, and Mr.
Harrison. Somewhat similar manifestations took place
on the previous Wednesday. At both seances playing
musical instruments sometimes flew about like bats,
gently touching the heads of some of the sitters in their
rapid flight. Last Wednesday a vase of flowers was
taken from a table about two yards from the medium,
while he was held; the flowers were then divided out,
and given to several of the sitters by materialised spirit
hands.
• ■
If we cannot lay the foundation, it is something to clear away
the rubbish; if we cannot set up truth, it is something to pull
down error.—Macaulay.
" At the close of the session of the Psychological Society, Mr.
Serjeant Cox entertained the members of the Council and a few
other friends at a dinner, or, more accurately speaking, a banquet,
at his house in Russell-square.
Last Tuesday, at a meeting of the Council of the National
Association of Spiritualists, the members present were Mr.
March, Mr. Stainton-Moses, Miss Houghton, Mrs. Maltby, Mr.
Reimers, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mr.
Tietkins, Dr. Speer, Mr. R. Pearce, Miss Withall, Mr. Meugens,
Mr. E. D. Rogers, and Mr. Theobald. Mr. A. Calder presided.
A vote of condolence to the friends of the late Mr. Benjamin
Coleman was passed. The resignations of Mr. Herbert, Mr. J.
W. Fletcher, and Miss Younge were accepted. Mrs. Lowe’s
resignation, on the ground that the Council had invidiously
treated Dr. Carter Blake differently to other persons who had
acted in the same manner as himself, was accepted, and no
explanation Was given by the Council why Dr, Blake had been
treated unlike others.
July 11, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. W
THE KELIGION OF SPIRITUALISM. j
No. I.
BY ISABEL DE STEIGER. j1
The above title is the ordinary way of rendering this I1
idea, but perhaps the more correct expression would be, j'
“ The religion taught by Spiritualism.” j
I think Spiritualists are very generally being more |
and more possessed with the idea that there is a religion j
taught to us by Spiritualism, and that to this goal we are
certainly tending.
It would be useless for me to argue Radiy what so j
many have argued so well, that a religion is necessary j
for us, and that human nature infallibly has made and j
will make one, and declares that both for its happiness !
and welfare, on the whole, a religion of some sort is i
demanded.
Let us, therefore, suppose that this fact is established, |
that at all events the majority of persons require a |
religion. Next, have this majority got it 1 Most people |
who have not liberated their souls into the glorious
realm of real free thought will reply, “ Of course we I
have; we have Christianity in its various forms and I
phases: it is blasphemous of us to want more.,, Some
others, i.e., the thinkers, will say, “It is true we have a
religion, for we own we want one ; but it seems power- !
less to effect its ends, and we confess it does not satisfy |
our ideas of religion. It is strange that our ideas and j
desires fly beyond what is given to us as comfort to our j
souls in the shape of religion; but, nevertheless, they |
do, and we feel we want something more. We realise
that Christianity has not done what its teachers say it
can and does do; moreover, we question whether the
very nature of some of the doctrines taught by these
same teachers would not prevent these promised results.” i
It is these non-satisfied minds that the spiritual move¬
ment will most affect, for they feel that we need fresh
cause to kindle the enthusiasm of religion in our hearts.
We hear it perpetually said, and read it written over
and over again, that nowadays there is no real enthu¬
siasm : what there is, such is either assumed or it belongs
to early youth, or, at all events, is very fleeting; and that
the enthusiasm of old which made people build grand
and glorious temples, or the enthusiasm which gave
them strength to die for their opinions, is dead. It I
seems, judging from results, that this is true. However, j
let us consider because the expression of enthusiasm is
dead, does it prove that the capacity for it is likewise j
dead 1 I think not, and believe that, far from its being |
dead, this vital feeling is only dormant, ready to kindle ’ j
into fresher and more glorious life had it once more fuel j
to feed its slowly flickering embers. To most thinking
minds—I mean those who have given honest and fair j
thought, the best of their reasoning powers in all justice
to every phase of opinion—enthusiasm is but resting;
they can, however, see nothing in the present forlfts of j
religion as taught in Christendom to rouse what they j
feel could be roused if there were fair cause for it. They
cannot assume it for less cause than they require for its
. real production. Some minds have for a time had their ]
darkness brightened by the revival of a high ritual; |
their enthusiasm began to burn up, but only to die down j
still lower; the novelty wore away, and sufficient fuel had
not been given, and no more was forthcoming. To
these people the conscious and unconscious hypocrisy of j
most Christians is a cause of great disgust. They tfitt j
look things in the face, and these so-called Christians |
won’t, and say it is not religious to do so. In a recent j
article in The Nineteenth Century I read this phrase— j
“ Without passionate emotion of the nobler sort, man !
would lose even the clipped wings by which he some¬
times flies a length higher than his fellows.,, Also—
“ Some of our rising artists in romance seek in pre-
Christian models for the nobler expressions of human
-feeling.” And again—“ All founders of religions have
recognised the large part that emotion should play in
the conduct of life.”. These are all pregnant words, and
embody much of the spirit of the times. This spirit, no
doubt, is the recognition of a general yearning for some
higher truths, some nobler developments, through which
man may fairly say that his highest faculties, his most
ardent enthusiasm, once again may have full action.
There is a prevalent mournfulness in Christendom.
In England we may pretend that our climate weighs
upon us; and that may, indeed, be a secondary cause,
but not a primary one, for we each of us know that
when at any period in our individual lives we are
thoroughly happy, secondary causes are not even noticed.
Putting aside the joyousness of youth, or the hilarity of
selfish or animal pleasures, we must feel that there is an
indescribable sadness running parallel with much intel¬
lectual activity. There is no stagnation; on the con¬
trary, life is fuller and more earnest than ever, and
there is decidedly a leaning towards actually trying to
develop the emotional side of humanity. Sentiment,
imagination, are no longer scoffed at. Great orators
condescend to say from public platforms that the powers
| of imagination ought not to be kept down, and that
poetry, the drama, and the fine arts should be cultivated
| as necessities, not as extras, to education. So much is
this teaching already followed out that hundreds 6f
pedestals are reared as altars on which long-forsaken art
| rapidly ascends. Alas! so astray is the public mind,
and so unable to discriminate true and false art, or to
| understand its real functions and powers, that as yet
this blind worship is productive of no especial good.
| The idol is worshipped, not the idea expressed through
j its figure. Still, people are on their knees, seeking,
| groping, on all sides for something, anything, to rouse
enthusiasm, to call forth emotion in their chilled hearts,
| which can thrill still for noble deeds and noble thoughts.
. Anything to stifle the deadly poison of the question,
! “ Is life worth living ? Do I want to be out of it ?”
The Church of Christendom has apparently never been
so prosperous; but do we not now know that its founda-
! tions, said to be on rock, are discovered to be but on
| sand ? With feverish zeal some people try to cure the
j malady of unbelief, and to stifle what they think is the
| sad wail of doubt and disbelief, which is now the
mournful undertone sighing here, there, and everywhere.
I First one “ point of faith ” is conceded, and then another
is questioned, and many people now read without any
j passionate emotion whatever, in their common magazines,
j onslaughts on the whole structure of Christianity itself,
j They like their particular form of it, and as long as that
fortress is untouched they calmly allow ideas to take
| root, any one of which would have set Christendom
aflame once upon a time. So here people are—one set
calm and unenthusiastic for want of thought, and the
other set sad and emotionless from too much thought.
I Most people are making untold strides in educating the
i intellect, but none particularly like to say what they
are doing for their souls; indeed, its destination, now
’■ that its eternal punishment or salvation is not con¬
sidered a fixed fact, is somewhat uncertain, and the
II orthodox party take refuge in begging the question
,j by replying with a few texts, and the notification of
11 their faith, at all events, in something vague; the
1 unorthodox become thoughtful, and seek in the culti-
i j * vation of the finer faculties of man a solace for the
’] ’ growing sadness of their hearts, and find it not. Art,
\ poetry, are beautiful expressions of divine ideas, but no
20
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 11, 1879.
one can be entirely satisfied with outside results; we all
seek to find our own souls. Ought, however, this spirit
of sadness to brood over us as it does 1 Are our minds
made to live and die either in flat dulness or deadly
disappointment ? Ought we to seek only in the pages of
history, miscalled Pagan history, “to find models for
the nobler expression of human feeling ? ” No!
Emphatically no. If this is a dead age, it is of our own
making, and not God’s making. He has given us the
same materials as of yore, and we throw them from us,
and say they do not suit us.
Religion has been always of our own making, and we
have suited our needs, and in so doing have naturally
obeyed God’s law; but we are no longer obeying it.
Spiritual gifts are showered upon us as of yore. Once the
world opened its heart and hands for them, and they
were filled and blessed. From the earliest known
religions down to Christianity, whenever the world
wanted a new development of the divine nature, a new
development came; and until now the world never knew
this deadly feeling of having no religion and no God.
Christianity has done its duty well; we are all the
better for it. It has worked its purposes for our good,
but those purposes are • ended now, because Christianity
has landed us on the shores of a new continent, and she
bids us explore the new realms she opens to us.
Christianity has taught us the value of free thought, and
for centuries she has been employed in- the work of
materialising us for our benefit. It was required by the
needs of humanity that the reasoning faculties should
be powerfully awakened, and that those of faith should,
on the contrary, be curtailed, and this Christianity has
done for us. In no other faith are there such seekers
after God—such doubt as to revelation. The Oriental
religionists are still as faithful as ever to their ideas of
revealed religion; their time has not yet come, or its
time has been, may be. But in any case our time has
now come, and therefore come this sadness, and gloom,
and doubt; for it is a transition period, and no one
knows where he is. Men are looking in the dust for
the origin of life, and in vain; but they are not to
blame ; the exigencies of the time require it, and we
are now at the ultimatum of our period, when materialism
has reached its apogee, when our intellectual guides
tell us they cannot find God; and if there is one we must
find one for ourselves, for, frankly speaking, they own
the fruits of their deepest research, and the efforts of their
finest capacities and their profoundest labours are all in
vain. They are too noble to deny, only because they
cannot demonstrate; but they say to us, “ Leave us alone,
we don’t want God, and if you do we cannot help you.”
And so they leave us to our religious guides, who
tell us we must first have faith, and believe what
they say; so here are we groping, floundering, looking
here, there, and everywhere; and because we begin to
see in our darkness, and to know we must have light
now that these dark clouds of Christianity are rolling
from us, and it is revealed to us that we are a people
sunk in materialism, having our reasoning powers in
full working order, and letting them slumber; trying to
kindle our dormant enthusiasms by secondary means, and
having our emotions chiefly roused by material causes
only, the love of money principally. When a millionaire
dies there is excitement enough respecting the destina¬
tion of his wealth; but how few positively, really and
truly and honestly, interest themselves about the desti¬
nation of his soul ? Christianity has enabled people to
throw what they would call a decent veil over such
matters, and it would be improper to attempt to raise it.
This veil has been getting so big and thick that it is not
to be wondered if many people begin to doubt whether
( there is any other side at all! Money is now the god
) of this world, through whose power we are enabled
) to worship the other gods. Alas I there is no Moses to
I(! punish us collectively for kneeling before the golden
1 calf; but we begin to feel that this worship of
j Mammon—dead against the teaching, but entirely with
| the practice of Christianity—is also one of the deadly
I chills which cools our emotions. Art is worshipped, as
j I said before, blindly, and principally because its com-
| mercial side is the one chiefly recognised. For the sake
( of money, or for the want of it, that most noble art
| music is lost to many, and is not as melodious as it
} should be, and the divine voice, “ the lost language of
( the soul,” is chiefly to be heard through golden ear-
) trumpets. Politicians and orators are losing their fiery
( ardour; they all agree things are bad and require mend-
j ing, and that with all our boasted civilisation we are not
/ the happy people we say we are; and we have left off,
( unremarked, much of the prate of former days, when we
)! thanked God for having looked after our country better
(! than others, for we are not quite so sure now that Ife has.
The end of it all is, that though we are more
/j curiously anxious about the positive fact of our souls
(I than we ever were before, we talk less; but we don’t
)j like the reply of our leading minds that they know
<| nothing about it, because we feel that the faculty
M of blind faith is gone from us. We are in reality far
/j more anxious than ever we were to know about our souls.
(i Do they or do they not exist? IsWinwood Reade’s Martyr-
I dom of Man true philosophy ? we ask; and if Mr. Greg’s
(j statement that “Death is the greatest tragedy in life ” is
)| true, it is a question whether we ought to be the means
of exposing any fresh beings to the tragedy we cannot
avoid for ourselves. If our modern scientists are more
>| trustworthy than Socrates and Plato, and know
(j nothing of the soul, what a misfortune for us it is to
I be born to live and to die; and a silent rebellion rises
)j in us, and this is the cause of our sadness. We are in
\j want of harmony with nature — with our inmost
)1 selves. We don’t believe, but we hope; and yet we are
(j ashamed of hoping, because we think it false philosophy
to buoy ourselves up with mere hope. We now want
(| something fresh to give a mainspring to our actions,
j new impulse for our enthusiasm, fresh field for our emo-
tions, new realms for our intellects and reason, and new
(\ goals for our aspirations. To find this we must not go
11 back before Christianity, even to the beauties or glories
)j of Pagan days, though it is true that Christianity,
\| while shedding fresh light on morality, has dimmed the
;j spiritual side of humanity and taken out its poetry,
(j Still it has been for the strengthening of our characters;
j! and if, therefore, we want to turn our eyes to the light,
(j let us watch the curtain that is now being drawn aside
W before our eyes, and as we bid farewell to the one-sided,
}| narrow-minded religion of to-day, called Christianity, we
\j shall be ready to welcome the beautiful and noble one
)j now waiting to inspire and deliver mankind—the religion
( of Spiritualism. Through her aid we are enabled to
\ gather together into one strong cord all the various and
/ twisted strands with which she has permeated history
( through all the early and grand worships, but where
; power was lost, because the wise refused to give their
< wisdom for the good of humanity, through the wondrous
j sciences called occult, whose glories shall once again
) invigorate the world. All these strands we gather in
y our hands, and we feel that in modern|Spiritualism we
> | have at last a clue—and a sure one—through the great
(I labyrinth of the future. To Spiritualists this will be an
>| easy truth, and one that needs no explanation, but
<| others may inquire more. Let us see what this long-
^ ‘ maligned philosophy offers to us.
July 11. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 21
SPIRITUALISM IN HOLLAND.
BY A. J. RIKO.
On Monday, June 9th last, my dear mother passed to
the higher life at the age of 79 years. A dear mother
can be lost but once, as I deeply feel; but I remember
that I am a Spiritualist, and I experience the strength
and consolation our knowledge affords, above all religious
systems and creeds. I have every reason to thank our
good Father in Heaven that my mother was spared to
me so long; but there is more; I was favoured with an
oft-described but always remarkable experience, before
my dear mother’s passing away, which I shall never
forget.
For three or four years her mental faculties had been
declining, and her memory had been fast fading away to
such a degree that for about a year she was totally
unable to join in a regular conversation; she made
frequent mistakes about persons, dates, and places, and
even mixed up family remembrances. In short, advanced
age made her act and speak like a child. This was a
cause of grief to me, and when thinking about the pro¬
bable closely approaching time of her departure, I deeply
regretted that her state rendered it impossible for me to
talk once more to her as a child with a beloved mother.
Her powers were declining with rapidity. With the ex¬
ception of the night of Friday (6th-7 th of June) she did not
suffer, but that night she complained of interior burning
and pain. I noticed that while suffering she prayed
aloud. Before the morning she happily grew calmer,
and from that moment till her death she was in clear
possession of all her faculties and of her memory. It was
simply wonderful to me; I could talk with her about
everything and everybody, on Saturday 7th and Sunday
8th, till Monday morning about eleven, when moments
of unconsciousness came on, during which she appeared
as sleeping. At about two o’clock she passed calmly to
the better home, where I hope to see her again.
Have I not every reason to be thankful for this ex¬
perience ? How grand, how consoling it is to witness
the fact that the decay of the organisation leaves the
spirit untouched, and that the individual, in getting free
from the material body, possesses all its faculties and its
spiritual forces. How good was she, my dear mother,
and how did she love me ! She passed away as a good
Roman Catholic, without the least fear, but full of hope
in a happy immortality. So I say with all my soul :
Besurrexit! sursum corda. I spoke out my spiritual con¬
victions in the advertisement of her departure in one of
the Hague papers, and I drew up the inscriptions for her
memorial card (as the Catholics use), in which I also un¬
folded our banner by expressing my faith in immortality
and continued relationship with my dear mother.
At Amsterdam they now obtain with a lamp upon the
table and a candle on the floor materialised hands and
even feet, which are projected from under the table at
the free side, while the few sitters (five or six) occupy the
three other sides. I have this information from two
Amsterdam friends who have witnessed the phenomena;
they are Spiritualists who unite calm observation with
strict logic. The circle obtains direct writing under the
same conditions, by simply throwing paper and a pencil
under the table, and in a very short time the result is
obtained. The medium is the daughter, a young
married woman of about twenty-four years of age.
Oude Molstraat, 8a, The Hague, Holland.
Nature commands every man to take care of himself. The
society or association which bids one man take care of another,
or says that every man should be provided for by the state or
nation, is teaching a false principle.—L. K, Washburn,
| | MISS EMILY FAITHFULL ON MATTERS
||i SPIRITUAL.
ij The last number of The Victoria Magazine, conducted
I by Miss Emily Faithfull, contains the following review.
j)l The mind of the writer seems to be somewhat hampered
m by theological doctrines which have had their day :—
j(i Spirits before our Eyes. (1st vol.) By W. H. Harrison,
pj (W. H. Harrison.) Modern Spiritualism has advanced
j.h so far beyond table-rapping and alphabetical manifesta-
j)| tions, that one may easily read several pages of a
'i)j Spiritualist book, and imagine that one has come across
||,| another edition of Mrs. Crowe.
From Spiritualist theories of the future state; from
|y| the nonsense concerning mediums, spirit-writing, and
|)| the usual paraphernalia of the distinctive Spiritualist
jy! programme, we differ toto ccelo. That there/is a vast deal
j)| of fraud has more than once been proved; that self-
pi deception does a great deal is almost equally clear.
S- Beyond this, we do not propose to inquire just now.
pj But the great bulk of Mr. Harrison’s book is taken up
j) | with matters concerning the appearances of the dead to
jlL the living that have really no necessary connection what-
|)| ever with the peculiar scheme of Spiritualism, or, as we
j prefer to call it—the term being, we think, more dis-
i tinctive—Spiritism. Without undertaking to say that
HI we believe half of the alleged facts related in Mr.
|) | Harrison’s book, we see no reason to dispute the possi-
| | bility of many of them. We repudiate the utter ignoring
|u of the spiritual world ; we can readily imagine that the
pj spirits of the dead are from time to time permitted (for
u! • some wise purpose) to visit the living. More, we have
|) j known incidents in our own experience which carry out
l|| a theory consistent with the strictest orthodoxy. The
j(j circumstance related on pp. 29, 30, is known to us, the
pi narrator being a relative and friend of our own.. In
||l proof of the statement that a belief in the visitations of
K the departed does not imply any belief in “Spiritism,”
j|j Mr. Harrison has drawn largely upon a work entitled
Kj Dead and Gone, by the Rev. James Pollock, of Birming-
nj ham, an advanced High Churchman, and therefore bound
||l by his religious views to be an uncompromising opponent
|\i of the special doctrines advocated by Mr. Harrison and
j|j his school.
It is to be regretted that the author should have
pi weakened much that might be valuable (to all interested
|< j in curious semi-psychological studies) by the relation of
yj events that only the most profound credulity could
||l regard with respect—legends of saints, and stories of
!\j appearances two and three hundred years ago, resting,
j)j of necessity, on positively contemptible evidence. We
j j must include in this category the highly-diverting story
I) of “ Old Booty,” which was, however, actually the sub-
j)| ject of an action at law (see pp. 118—121).
y Nevertheless, a great deal of this book is worth read-
II j ing, and if we are compelled to condemn some portions,
j (j we entertain no doubt whatever of the honesty and
|)| earnestness of Mr. Harrison individually. That the
||| thoughtful reader must needs smile over many things
j)j related and many doctrines advanced, is • more the
HI author’s misfortune than his fault. At any rate we do
j \ j not think much harm could be got. from the book, and it
i)i is hardly needed for the conviction of those who have
p j already a rational belief in the supernatural.
||| Excellent accounts reach us of the test mediurnship of Mr.
j(l Matthews. When is he coming to Loudon? Through this class
m of mediumship, long-forgotten facts and thoughts are often
j) i revealed to sitters; hut, so far as our experience extends, the
pi , revelation of demonstrable facts, known to the spirit and not
'previously known to any of the sitters, is rare.
22
THE SPIRITUALIST.
CLAIRVOYANCE. j
(From Dr. Gregory's i( Animal Magnetism,") r
Mr. Atkinson had magnetised a young lady, the
daughter of a medical man who resided many miles j|
from London, where the young lady was. She became h
clairvoyant, but her father, who came to see her, would K
not believe in her clairvoyance. Mr. Atkinson then \t
requested him when he got home to do anything he |
chose, not telling any one, at a certain hour, and in a
certain room. At the time appointed Mr. Atkinson b
mesmerised the young lady, and requested her to visit |
her father’s dining-room.. (It was at dinner time.) She j>
did so, and saw her father and the rest. But all at once ||
she began laughing, and said—“What does my father |)
mean 1 He has put a chair on the dinner-table, and the H
dog on the top of the chair.” Mr. Atkinson'sent by the n
first post an account of what his patient had seen, 0
which was received next morning, and in answer he was K
informed that she had seen correctly, for that her father, j )
to the amazement of his family, had put the chair on l|
the table, and the dog on the chair, at the time K
agreed on, j)
Mons. Sabine, chief of the station of the Havre Rail- l|
road, went a few days ago to consult Alexis, who when |)
in somnambulism said, “ You come about something lost | (
in the service to which you belong?” “It is true,” ||
replied he. “ You are employed on the Havre Railroad.” !)
“It is likewise true” (Mons. Sabine not having pre- |)
viously mentioned his business to any one); “it is a jl
basket that is missing containing some little animals.” 11
“They are—they are—leeches. You sent to inquire j)
about the basket at Rouen and at Havre, and you nave I ^
received no news of it. This is what has taken place. K
A traveller going to Havre by your carriages on the— j)
the—the 11th of November was greatly annoyed on j«
arriving at his destination to find only one basket n
instead of two, which he had on setting off.” “This y.
is wonderful,” said M. Sabine; “there were two baskets K
of leeches.” ‘‘ The train,” continued Alexis, “ on arriving j)
at Rouen, left several travellers with their luggage, and I (
one of the baskets was placed by mistake on one of the |)
omnibuses going into town, and the conductor was sur- j)
prised to find that no one claimed it. For fear of being j,v
scolded, he did not deposit the lugguge in the ware- i)
house, but hid it for some time in his stable; and while i \
it was there you wrote to Rouen and Havre about it, the |)
reply being that it could not be found. A few days ago K
the conductor; put it in the goods depot near the |V
entrance, and beneath the first window on the right, j)
You will find it if you set off to Rouen; only on account ! (
of the length of time that has elapsed you will find about I;
two hundred of the; leeches dead.” Gn the next day
M. Sabine returned from Rouen, having found the jv
basket at the place indicated by Alexis, with two hundred I /
of the leeches dead. : K
In the autumn of 1815 Alexis gave a series of mesmeric j)
seances to the medical men of Havre, each of whom was j<
permitted to bring one friend to witness the experiments. |>
One of them toOk with him Mr. Featherstqnhaugh, the j)
consul at Havre, who had come over the day before from ; \
California, and was a decided sceptic as to mesmerism, y
In order to test Alexis, Mr. Featherstonhaugh put in his K
pocket, enclosed in a box, a portion of a Japanese idol n
which he had picked up out of the wreck of a vessel !/
from Japan, which had been lost on the coast of Cali- K
fornia during his stay there. On being asked by Mr. jj
Featherstonhaugh, “ What have I in my . pocket ?” <
Alexis answered, “ It looks like a beetle, but it is not n
one, but a part of a Japanese idol with an inscription on |/
it. You picked it up during a walk on the seashore in K
July 11, 1879.
California, and thought at first it was some curious stone,
but you afterwards perceived it was an idol which had
been washed up from the wreck of a Japanese vessel
that was lost on that coast a few days before.”
These are brief illustrations of a power of which there
are innumerable examples, many more marvellous than
these, and of infinite variety. Dullards to-day close
their eyes to such occurrences, but the exercise of the
higher psychic powers is becoming every day more
widely diffused, and their extension is synonymous with
the progress of humanity. The intuitive faculties are
feebly developed at present, for in some they seem to be
only rudimental, but in the natural evolution of mankind
they are destined a few centuries hence to enjoy intuition
as a common heritage of all. In that happy period
when the Divine plan of humanity shall be fully realised
truth will find no opaque obstruction in human bigotry,
no fierce resistance to its progress, but its revelations
will be known and accepted all. over the civilised world
on the day of their discovery.
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
SYNCHRONOUS VISIONS.
A correspondent of The Harbinger of Light, Melbourne,
May 1st, narrates the following facts, which might
possibly have had their origin not with a spirit, but in
the synchronous psychical impressions of a few indi¬
viduals :—
Do spirits walk the earth after the violent death of the
body ? The following, in answer to the question, has
been told to me within the last few days:—A young
woman of my acquaintance, who is an automatic writing
medium, had written, through her mediumship, on a
slate, that the spirit of a man nightly frequented a certain
spot on the bush road between Beechworth and Twist
Creek, and that if the medium would go to the spot he
would try to show himself.
Now, before I proceed further with this account, I
must tell you that, some two or three years ago, a brother-
in-law of mine who was walking along this same road one
very dark night, saw a white luminous sort of shadow
walk or glide across the road in front of him—he, strange
to say, was not at the time of the occurrence any way
alarmed, but thought it very strange. He saw it again
after that, in the same spot. A man named Allen saw
the same thing, and another whose name is Scanlon; in
fact, as far as I can learn, no less than four or five persons
had seen the same object at different times. One (Scanlon)
made a hit at it with a stick, and, on his doing so, it
vanished instantly. None of the seers confess to being
afraid or timid at the time, but rather the opposite.
But, to proceed: A party, consisting of three men
and three women—that is, father, mother, and daughter
(medium), the daughter’s husband, and a neighbour with
his wife—sallied out to view the supernatural visitor, and
a long and lonely walk it was. The night was starlight.
The particular spot being reached, our friends held a
circle in the lonely bush. The medium having brought a
slate and pencil, at the instigation of one of the circle
she held the pencil in position, and scarcely was it held
so, when “ Do you not see me ?” was quickly written
and read by the aid of a match. All looked, but could
not see anything. Slate again—This time, “Now look !”
and, sure enough, quite near was the form of a man glid¬
ing along towards the party. “Look there 1” said one.
“ Look 1” Strange to say, all the circle could not seelt;
only the three women and one man. The other two men
strained their eyes in vain, nothing could they see. After
July 11, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
the lapse of a few seconds, vanished. Slate again— }<j
Now was written, “ I will try again; I will show a light j;j
if I can.” AH saw the light flash dimly (like the |(|
momentary flash of the firefly on a summer’s night). K;
Three times it was seen, and then no more. Slate again i>|
—This time there was writing on it to this effect: “ My |{|
name is Robert . I was murdered near here nine- j>j
teen years ago. Help me.” No further writing took |)'|
place, and, after trying to see if anything further would j vj
occur, our brave little party trudged away home again, hj
and so the matter rests at present. Can any of your jl
readers give a similar instance to the above ?
THE ROYAL COLLEGE FOR THE BLIND.
The annual prize festival of the Royal Normal College
and Academy of Music for the Blind was held last
Wednesday at Upper Norwood. After some singing
and music of a superior character by the pupils, the
visitors assembled in a marquee in the grounds, where
Canon Barry explained that the institution was not a
charity, for it trained the blind to be self-supporting.
H.R.H. the Princess of Wales, who was accompanied by
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales and three of her children,
then distributed the prizes, after which the Arch¬
bishop of York, in the course of some remarks, said that
a hundred years ago the blind would have been almost
left to take care of themselves, but the care now taken
of the afflicted surprised him more than all the wonders
of science. The Duke of Westminster, president of the
College, thanked the Prince and Princess of Wales for
their presence, and by a happy thought “ brought down
the house ” by including the three little princesses, who
with sparkling eyes had been keeping a close watch on
all the proceedings. . The Prince of Wales responded
with a few general remarks, in which he complimented
Mr. Campbell for his efficient management of the whole
establishment, after which the company separated. By
means of excellent arrangements the proceedings were
short, and there was no overcrowding. The best meet¬
ings always are short ones.
As we have before stated in these pages, there is
plenty of evidence on. record that clairvoyance is some¬
times developed in persons physically blind. Dr. Childs,
of Philadelphia, has published how. a man physically
blind was, by clairvoyant powers, able to drive a horse
and cart about that city, and the Baroness von Yay has
recorded in these columns her knowledge ’of the clair¬
voyant powers of a blind woman. Clairvoyance is often
developed by mesmerism, so it may be that by means of
mesmerism a kind of sight could be given to perhaps a
third of the patients in the College. At all events, good
results are so probable, that the day may come when the
whole world will be wondering why no experiments in
the matter have been made at the present day. The mes¬
merists who read these lines would do well to search out
any persons in their localities who have been totally blind
for years, and to attempt to develop clairvoyance in
them, letting us know the results. - Some years ago
Mr. Serjeant Cox was exceedingly successful in deve¬
loping clairvoyance in persons with good normal eye¬
sight ; but the same method would probably develop it
in the blind, so he is a good authority to consult as to
the mode of operating. Some time since he publicly
expressed his desire to know the nature of the dreams of
the blind. Do they dream that they see ?
 »■ — - -
Mas. Elgie Corner (Florence Cook) is in France.
Mr. Cain, Spiritualist, who once did good work for the move¬
ment at the East-end of London, is in want of employment.
His address is 47, Harford-street, Mile-end-road, London, E.
DIVINERS,
A good deal of attention was paid by the newspapers to
certain alleged achievements of two diviners, or dowsers, about
twenty years ago. They were West of England men, named.
Adams and Mapstone. A farmer, near Wednaore, in Someirset,
wishing for a supply of water on his farm, applied to Mapstone.
Mapstone used a hazel rod in the usual way, and when he came
over a particular spot, declared that water could be found fifteen
or twenty feet beneath the surface. Digging was, therefore,
commenced at that spot, and water appeared at a depth of nine¬
teen feet. The other expert, Adams, who claimed to have been
instrumental in the discovery of nearly a hundred springs in the
West of England, went, one day, by invitation, to the house of
Mr. Phippen, a surgeon, at Wedmore, to dowse for Water. He
walked about in the garden behind Mr. Phippen’s house, until
the stick became so agitated that he could not keep it steady; it
bent down at a spot which, he asserted, must have water under¬
neath it. Mr. Phippeu caused a digging to be made, and water,
was really found at the spot indicated. As a means of testing
Adams’s powers in relation to metals, three hats were placed in a;
row in the kitchen, and three silver spoons under one of the hats.
Adams walked among the hats, and his rod told him which of
them covered the treasure. Then three kinds of valuables
—gold, silver, and jewels—were placed under three hats, one
kind under each, and he found out which was which. On another
occasion he dowsed for water in the grounds of the Rev. Mr. ~
Foster, of Sedbury, in Gloucestershire, Using the same method
as before, he announced the presence of water at a particular
spot, twenty feet beneath the surface. A pamphlet/published by
Mr. Phippen, concerning these curious facts, attracted the atten¬
tion of Mr. Marshall, partner in the great flax factory at Leeds. -
Water was wanted at the mill, and the owners were willing to
see whether dowsing could effect anything in the matter. Mr.
Marshall invited Adams to come down and search for springs.
On one occasion, when blindfolded, Adams failed, but hit the
mark pretty nearly in the second attempt, excusing himself for
the first failure, on the ground that “he was not used to be
blindfolded.” Of the main experiments, Mr. Marshall afterwards
said, in a letter to the newspapers, “ I tested Adams by taking -
him over some deep borings at our manufactory, where he could
have no possible guide from anything he could see; and he
certainly pointed out nearly the position of the springs, as shown
by the produce of the bore holes, some being much more pro¬
ductive than others. The same was the result at another factory,
where Adams could have had no guide from what he saw, and
could not have got information otherwise.”—“ Stick (not Table)
Turning,” in All the Year Round.
THE DIVINING ROD IN AUSTRALIA.
In the area of Kiora, lying to the southward of Ararat, the
settlers, who are very anxious to discover springs of water upon
their selections, have engaged the services of an old man,
apparently between sixty and seventy years of age, who professes
to discover springs by the aid of a divining rod. He has already
pointed out spots where he confidently states water will be found
at a moderate depth, and the farmers are now engaged in,
practically proving his skill. We are told the diviner holds a
slender strip of steel between the finger and thumb of both hands,
and walks about the land with it in this position. When water
is approached, the rod trembles violently, and the motion ceases
as the place is left. One of the settlers, Mr. Tomkins, with the
view or testing his accuracy, had the diviner blindfolded (after
pointing out the spot where the water would be found) and taken
to another portion of his land, but he states that the motion of
the rod led him, with but little hesitation, back to the same
place. The old man refuses to take money for his services till
water be obtained, and when proved to exist asks ^3 from each
individual. He states that the rod was owned by his father, and
that it will not indicate water in the hands of any of his brothers.
While engaged at Kiora he showed some of the farmers letters
which he had received from a number of squatters engaging his
services on their stations in a similar capacity; and he left to
fulfil these engagements, with a view of returning for payment.
when the sinking is concluded. He professes to name within
three feet of the depth at which water will be obtained, but
cannot say if it will prove fresh or salt.—Melbourne Argus,
February 25th, 1867*
24
THE SPIHItfUALlST*
July 11, 1879,
VISITORS AT THIRTY-EIGHT GREAT RUSSELL STREET. jU
Sir,—-There is a point at which reticence ceases to be a duty, n j
and a desire for peace may be misconstrued. I am very reluctant j; I
to burden your columns with any words of mine, but it u!
seems that recent letters respecting the action of the Council in jyi
the matter of Dr. Carter Blake demand some, notice.
Quare fremuerunt gentesf What is it all about? ‘‘You |>j
have excluded Dr. C. Blake from your rooms, obviously on the j)j
ground of his being a Roman Catholic” says Mrs. Lowe in j(j
her haste" It is pointed out to her that her “ obvious ” inference is i \ j
a mere hallucination. “Well, then,” she replies in substance, |>|
“ you ought to have made a clean sweep of us all,” ignoring our j/j
plain right to please ourselves in the matter. 1(1
Dr. Carter Blake has his say, and surpasses himself in quota* |) |
tion and recondite illustration. . I > (
Then comes Achilles from his tent, and judicially rebukes us, j)i
though we have not submitted ourselves to his judgment, and, j n
patting Dr. Carter Blake on the back in the most brotherly ju
manner, assails our President for some recent words of his. Tin- ;) j
fortunately, however, his usually accurate mind is beclouded by !) j
prejudice, and he (I am sure, unconsciously) misrepresents Mr. j / j
. Galder seriously. It was not the “ persons ” who, in their dis- j (i
cretion, have followed Mr. Massey’s example, that Mr. Calder | (j
called “weak and feeble,” but the “reasons” assigned for their j)|
procedure. It would be uncivil to apply such terms to our de- j)j
parted friends; but surely we may be allowed to express our j([
opinion as to the reasons they give for what they have done. n j
It would seem indeed to be impossible for us to do good in the eyes j) |
of our self-appointed critics. They are fond of sneering at our |H
National pretensions, and tell us that we are a mere London j (|
club. Yet when we exercise the most ordinary privilege of a jU
club, they accuse us of acting from motives of bigotry and in- i>
tolerance. When we demonstrate that such motives are foreign 1)1
to our mind, our opponents shift ground with much speed, and j (j
buzz, as before, only to another tune. j(j
This is in its way amusing, but in another sense we have a nl
right to complain of it as both unfair and unjust; as a poisoning j)
of the wells, to borrow a metaphor from a celebrated passage of [)
Newman’s Apologia. K
When these friends left us we mourned. Now that they !)
return to busy themselves about us we wish that they would j)
either come back and set us right, or leave us alone, or at ! (
least confine themselves to fact in their criticisms. Perhaps K
the second course indicated would best advance the cause i)
that we, no doubt, all have at heart. W. Stain ton Moses. i>
July 5, 1879.    |)
MADAME SLAVATSKY. j(
Sir,—Be so kind as to make room in your next issue for this !)
indignant protest of mine. Speaking of me in your leading j/j
article of May 23rd, and entitled “ Theosophic Thaumaturgy,” 1 |i|
am mentioned as the “ Countess ” Blavatsky. Allow me to state, | (j
once for ever, that such is not my title, nor can I concede the j j j
right to include in the long list of vices I may be possibly en- j)
dowed with that of a parvenu's vanity. My family, on both ju
sides, is quite ancient enough and noble enough to have trans- I (1
mitted to me too much pride to leave room for any petty feeling j)|
bf vanity. I had to protest against this title wnile I was in |)!
America; have protested against it at another time in the Revue ju
Spirite of Paris ; and have just published in the Bombay Gazette I (j
of May 13 th a third protest, stating that, for reasons sufficiently j>
specified, and not wholly disconnected with American citizenship, j) j
my name is simply H. P. Blavatsky. i(
Bombay, June 12th. ji
[The expression “Countess Blavatsky” was taken from the j)
Indian newspapers.—Ed.] j(
j • L •' ,V:' ■ i rara : '■ •• •'! '■ \ •/
A PRIVATE SEANCE. |
DY CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES.
At the apartments of a friend of mine living near K
Hyde Park, a seance was held on Thursday, 3rd of July, j)
Mr. Rita being the medium. Only three investigators j(
were present, and the medium was held by the host and j>|
myself. j(j
After sitting some time in the dark we heard the m
direct voice of Charlie, Mr. Rita's control, who for more fvj
than a quarter of an hour kept up a conversation,
answering questions, and making shrewd and humorous
remarks.
Towards the end of the seance, while the medium was
in safe custody, some object was brought from another
part of the room, and placed on the table at which we
were seated.
On striking a light, this obj ect was found to be a
book called Barnum’s Humbugs of the World. The
volume itself was closed, but on the outside was lying
the first part of the chapter headed “ The Spiritualists,”
fifteen pages of which chapter had been torn out, as if in
protest against “Spiritualism” being classed amongst
the “ humbugs.”
Of course, it might have been by chance — by a
curious coincidence—that this particular chapter should
have been tom out j but as the seance was held in total
darkness, the coincidence was, to say the least, a very
remarkable one.
The medium had come straight from the dining-room
into an apartment he had never before entered, had
taken his place immediately in the circle, and had no
opportunity of handling any of the numerous volumes
lying upon the side table from which the book had been
conveyed.
129, Q-ower-street, London, July 9th..
SPIRITUALISM IN PRUSSIA.
Mr. H. Liebing, of Berlin, Prussia, writes as follows
to Mr. Simmons, Dr. Slade’s partner, now residing in
Chicago:—
“Professor Zollner has kept his promise well. Three
volumes of his works are published now, and the last
one is expected to appear in a few weeks. No one has
given Slade so much justice as he. The scientists of
Europe have been startled by the revelations he made.
The professor’s books are working silently below the
surface now, and many are investigating the spiritual
phenomena, and in a short time things will change in
favour of Spiritualism.
“I am not of Zollner’s opinion in regard to his
hypothesis of a fourth dimension, but think it will
prove to be an error on his part. But it makes no
difference j it serves as the means to investigate the
matter as minutely as possible. We have a very good
medium here now, a lady, for physical manifestations.
The spirits play on the guitar when laid under the
table. We get impressions of spirit hands and feet in
flour and on blackened paper. Spirits touch us, ring
bells below the chairs, and do almost anything we
request them to. Indians run about the room in their
mocassins and dance-; we hear but do not see them.
About six months ago, when we were wishing for
physical manifestations, pencil and paper lying on the
table at the .time, the former rose up in a full light,
before all present, and wrote a message in a very plain
handwriting. Mediums are developing all round us.”—
Beligio-Philosophical Journal.
.   •»   
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
M. (Gateshead).—You wish, by means of an anonymous letter,
to bring two serious charges against a known person, and to
publish one of those charges on hearsay, you withholding the
name and address of your informant. Please put your name and
address to your own statement, and let your informant write
out and put his name and address to bis statement; then send
both on to us, accompanied by a letter of introduction from Mr.
Barkas, Mr. Kersey, or some local Spiritualist we know, to the
effect that he believes in the good faith of one or both of you in
respect to any statements you may send us for publication. The
title you have put to your letter has nothing to do with its
contents.
July 11, 1879.
Beitish national associa-
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
Btreet, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
Information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
BEIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman Road, Brixton.
The object of the Society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
Well-known, mediums, and are entitled to the use of
books on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., <fec.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
Beitishi museum lectuees.—
Dr. CARTER BLAKE will Lecture in the
Galleries of Natural History and Antiquities, on
Monday,' July 7th, Wednesday, July 9th, Friday,
July 11th, and Monday, July 14th, from 11 to 1 o’clock.
Tickets 2s. Gd. each Lecture, or 7s. 6d, for the Course.
Address Dr; CARTER BLAKE; 28, East-street, Queen’s-
square, W.O.
MES. WELDON’S WEDNESDAY
RECITALS. Mrs. Weldon gives an Evening’s
entertainment weekly, at Tavistock House, her re¬
sidence (formerly Charles Dickens’). The programme
is. varied by a short Lecture, sacred and romantic;
serious and nursery songs by Gounod, Urich, and Mrs.
Weldon. Tickets to be had on application free. A
collection is made for Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage,
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHEE-WOELD OEDEE:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W, Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price 5s< Gd,
Inspirational Poetry,
“POEMS EEOM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
PART I.
I.—The. Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—HI. The Embarkation—IY, Kepler’s Vision—
Y. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Garda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “ Birdie’s Spirit Song ”—XVIH.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII.« For a’ that’’—XXIII. Words o’
Cheer-- XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same authoress, a companion volume,
' price 6s. Gd.,
POEMS OF PEOGEESS.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allah Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 6, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
M. Leymarie.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price 3s. Gd. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges. Post
free.
“ EIFTS IN THE VEIL."
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ 01 Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VIL—An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced; The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind. Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr.Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. ——.
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta."
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —^Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
‘ XVII.—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVJII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wunnbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C.
Stone.
. XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By. F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVlI.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. • Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX.—A Stance id the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX-—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI.—The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.Al., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wotherington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette' Makdougall
Gregory.,
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russell Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
•‘M.A. (OXON)," on
PSYCHOGEAPHY ; OE DIEECT
SPIRIT WEITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
iii
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth. *
(With a Frontispiece.) >
PEOOF PALPABLE of IMMOETALITY
BY EPES SARGENT,
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past-Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers,
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality-
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—^Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr.
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various W it-
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? — Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S.
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship- Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope. f'
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—^Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—^Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature-
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss —Leon Case-
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—-Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition, enlarged.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE
COMPARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from
Spiritualism with the idea that it is unchristian and
unscriptural. It shows (we think successfully) that
every form of mediumship, now so familiar to Spirit¬
ualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of identical
experiences. Also
HEAVEN OPENED.
Parts 1 and 2, Gd. each. The two bound in one, Is.
These books, consisting of messages given by
Writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth,
and their group of little ones iu their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and
Borrowing parents.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. ;
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, Or who are about tp hold,
spirit circles in their own .ho’mes Published at_ The
Spiritualist Newspaper'Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for IJd.; or six copies post free for,<5d. .
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 11, W9,
iv
THE ALPHA; or, the Eirst Principle
of the Human Mind; a Revelation, but no
Mystery. With Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait
of the Author, E. N. Dennys. 370 pages, price 3s. 6d.
“We can call to mind few books fit to be Its fellows.”
—Athenxum.
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, ;and
logic than any work we have ever read ; it is a hew
revelation, and one of the most remarkable productions
ever given to the world."—Cosmopolitan.
Also, just published, with engraving-of the Author,
470 pages, price 3s. 6d.
mHE RELIGION OE LIFE, as exemp-
JL lifted by Jesus Christ. A series of Lectures by
the Author of “ Alpha."
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O
Now ready, 48 pp. Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS FOB JULY, 1879.
The Spiritual Pilgrim ; by “ M. A.” (Oxon)—Voices
from the Ages, The Pimander; by P. Davidson—The
Story of Him who wore the Wreath; by A. M. Howitt
Watts—The Attitude of the Religious World towards
Modern Spiritualism ; by John S. Parmer—The Phila¬
delphian Society; by J. W. F.—The Rev. J. Baldwin
Brown on the Resurrection; by J. S. P.—“Spiritual¬
istic Sanity."—The Music of the Spheres an inspiration;
by M. O. T. Q-.—Notes and Gleanings: Cardinal New¬
man and the Spiritual Body; Why do Mediums use
Great Names? The Spiritual in Animals ; The Rise
and Growth of the Brahmo-Somaj; Leibnitz on
Psychomety; What is the Use of Spiritualism?—
Spiritual Lyrics, the Cure of Care; by T. S.
London : E. W. ALLEN, Ave Maria Lane.
Glasgow : H. NISBET & Co., Ropework Lane.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8 vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
|By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
the Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.Q. 
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d, each; postage 8d. per-
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
This second edition is, for its quality and size, the
cheapest large work ever published in this country in
connection with Spiritualism. Price 5s., or 5s. 6d.
post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Pbize Essays.
The probable effects of
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals of the Bbitish National
Association of Spiritualists.
■ ■ The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.O.    
MIND AND MATTER.—a Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
• Journal.- Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
-Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HABBISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Mornind
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Sang of the
Newspaper Editor.—3; The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—1. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji L. Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride's Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion;—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirhel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
-—24. The Angel of Silence.
PART 2.—-The Wobhlejaw Ballads, by Anthony WobUejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament.—29. The July Bug,— 30. The Converted
Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; consequently
any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a genuine
vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who are not too
stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on
the contrary, some of his poems touch on the deepest
and most sacred feelings of our common humanity.
., . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his ad¬
ventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is
quite one. of the funniest things that has been pub¬
lished for years. . . . The book contains quite
enough to ensure it a welcome from which its tasteful
appearance will not detract.” The Morning Post says
of The Wobblejau) Ballads :—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in
H something like the same key as The Bon Gaultier
Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably suc¬
cessful result."
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift." ■
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings, Written, printed, published, and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street). Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed."
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mens, H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth,
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
A T MRS. PARKER’S, 3, BLOOMS-
r\ BURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON, W.O., a Philosophical and Developing
Circle is being formed. Those wishing to join will
please send in their names. Terms on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing
into clairvoyance; she is replying to sealed questions
when conditions favour. Office hours from 12 to 5
o’clock.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “Poughkeepsie Seer." t. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . ,76
The Teacher. „ II. „ ..76
The Seer. „ III. „ . .76
The Reformer, „ IV. ,, - • . ,76
The Thinker. „ V. „ ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . ..7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People .*76
Children's Progressive Lyceum Manual . . 2 0
Death and the After-Life . - . . ,.36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . 3 ' 6
Harbinger of Health . . . . . .7 6
Harmonial Man'; or, Thoughts for the Age .36
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .7 6
Philosophy of Special Providence . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . 3 6_
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . - . . 6 0
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 O
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings , 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .30
Morning Lectures . .... .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini-?
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand,
r. The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for ail
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROF f, Manager,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
CONTENTS.
Repetition of one of Professor Zollner’s Experi¬
ments with Private Mediums. By Nicolaus
Wagner, Professor of Zoology, and Honorary
Member of the Imperial University at St.
Petersburg     
A Novel Kind of Psychography. By Louisa
Andrews      
Spiritualism in Egypt 
Who Wrote Shakespeare’s Plays ? By Henry G.
• Atkinson, F.G.S   
A Haunted House at Shanldin. By F. W. Percival,
M.A     
Materialised Spirits     
The Religion of Spiritualism. No. I. By Isabel
de Steiger       
Spiritualism in Holland. By A. J. Riko  
Miss Emily Faithfull on Matters Spiritual 
Clairvoyance     
Spiritualism in Australia. Synchronous Visions...
The Royal College for the Blind    
The Divining Rod in Australia      
Diviners       
Correspondence:—^Visitors at 38, Great Russell-
street—Madame Blavatsky    
A Private Stance. By Captain John James   
Spiritualism in Prussia.,       
To Correspondents   
Paragraph—Lunacy Law Reform 
.13
16
17
17
18
18
19
2L
21
22
22
23
23
23
24
24
24
24
17
Printed for the Proprietor by BEVsnindE and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood's Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-abOve-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by W. H. Harrison, 33, British Museum*
street, London, W,C,
