Re&isteubd IB k Newbpapee.
S>ff) JOlflfaf ^T<
0^
©Ibtst rcmwrfeb tott| S^intintlism itt (&xmt Britain.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : xi, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS i Kiosque 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi,Via Della Maltonaia. ROME :
Signor Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE : 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly and Co. NE'WYORK:
51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “ Banner of Light ” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. SAN FRAN¬
CISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON : No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 351.—(Vol. XIV.—No. JO.) LONDON : FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents
The Psychology of Hamlet. By Edward W. Cox .. .. 229
An Old Witch Story .... ..      231
What Truth is there in Astrology ? 232
Dr. Slade in Australia   .. ,. .. .. .. 232
Indian Jugglery 233
Physical Manifestations in Public   234
Free Sunday Evening Clairvoyant Seances 234
Less >ns in Spiritualism. By Louisa Andrews 235
Correspondence- -A Word from an Outsider, Non-Profes¬
sional Lectures, 232 ; Spirit Messages  233
Paragraphs—Chinese Funerals, 231; The late Lord
Brougham and Spiritualism, 232 j “Present in the
Spirit, ” 233 ; The Effects of Kindness, 233; Spiritual¬
ism in Dalston, 283; New Books 234
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER :
-4 Record of the Rrogress of the Science and Ethics
of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
Unite! Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated
Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries throughout
the Globe ; it also has an influential body of readers on the
Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading
and more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in
the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among
those who have published their names in connection with their
communications in its columns are Mr. C. F.Varley, C.E., F.R.S.;
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal
of Science ” (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but has,
up to the present time, expressed no decided opinion as to their
cause) j Mr. Alfred R. Wallace. President of the Biological Sec¬
tion of the British Association for the Advancement of Science
(1876) ; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden) ; the
Right Hon. the Countess of Caithness ; His Imperial Highness
Nicholas of Russia (Duke of Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkin¬
son, F.G.S. ; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen
(formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples); Baron
Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein): Mr. Gerald Massey; Le Comte
de Bullet; the Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly American
Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Di. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Parkas, F.G.S. ; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psycholo¬
gical Society of Great Britain ; Mr. Alexander Calder, Presi¬
dent of the Briiish National Association of Spiritualists ; the
Rev. J. Tyerman (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.);
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George
Wyld ; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksa-
kof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order
of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay
(Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C, Luxmoore ; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B,
(India); Mrs. Honeywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr,
Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George Stock, B. A. (Oxon);
Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian
Reimers ; Mr. William White (author of the “Life of Sweden¬
borg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D. ; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S-A.;
Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S. ; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M. ; Mr. C. Con¬
stant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nos worthy; M’-. William Oxley :
Miss Ki lingbury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris) ; Mrs. F. Showers;
Mr. J. N. T. Mathese; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr.
W. Lindsay Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other
ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom,
10s. lOd.; in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's-churchyard, E.C.
Paris : Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig : 2, Lind nstrasse. FI rence : Signor G. Parisi,
Via Della Maltonia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples : British Re ding Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege : 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Krzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Rnssel-street. Shanghai : Messrs. Kelly and
Co. New York : Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal
Office. Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 819,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington : No. 1010, Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street: Mr.
Elmer, St. James’- street; and Mr. Boughton, St.George’s-rd.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
33, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
OFFICE HOURS.
The Offices of the Association are open between the honrs
of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except Sat¬
urday.. when they are open between the hours of 2 p.m. and
6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR MAY.
Friday, 2nd, and each succeeding Friday.—Experi¬
mental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 5th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at
8 p.m. “ Object Lessons in Spiritu¬
alism, and their Importance.” By
Mrs. Andrews.
Tuesday, 13th.—Soirde Committee at 6 p.m.
„ ,, House and Offices Committee at 5.30
p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
,, ,, Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Monday, 19fA.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at
8 p.m. “ Recent Researches in Spirit¬
ism.” By Desmond, G. Fitzgerald,
M. S. Tel.
Friday, 23rd.—Library Committee at 5.30.
„ „ Seance Committee at 6 p.m.
Tuesday, 27th.—Annual Gbneeal Meeting of Mem¬
bers at 6.30 p.m.
C. A. BURKE, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akebman Road, Bbixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books
on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
British museum lectures.—dr.
Cabteb Blaxb will LECTURE in the Galleries of Natural
History and Antiquities, on Tuesday, May 27; Thursday, May
29; Tuesday, June 3; and Thursday, June 6, from 11 to 1 o’clock.
Tickets 2s. fid. each Lecture, or 7s. 6d. for the Course.
Address Dr. Cabteb Blaeb, 28, East Street, Queen’s Square,
W.C.
Cloth, small 8vo., price 3s.
aT HER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use in the
divine economy for all varieties of men and women ; and
that there is not any one, however perverse or insignificant,
who is not created for some function in universal humanity.
As to the question of everlasting punishment, Mr. White
maintains an original position. If asked whether he believes
in the everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers, Yes; but
if asked whether he helievea in everlasting sinners, he answers,
No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish which exist
as to the future life arise from the constant assumption that
the everlasting punishment of sin is identical with the ever¬
lasting existence of sinners. Sin or transgression has been,
is, and ever will be eternally punished; torment and misery
are everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing; and pre¬
cisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or
later, cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility of
everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is. Post free 13 stamps,
SPIRITUAL SANITY: A REPLY TO Dr.
O Forbes Winslow’s “ Spiritualistic Madness,” and a
Brief Outline of the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiri¬
tualism. By S. E. Gay.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E-0.
PARIS—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the
city, by an English brother. The apartments can only ac¬
commodate four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3
per week each; or, for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two
occupy one room. Address, S.T., care of M. A, Mallett, 3,
Rue de la Cossonerie, Paris.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Sebjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro*
motion of psychological science in all its.branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent,
that move and direct the material mechanism of man. Com¬
munications as to alleged phenomena are invited by the
Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings with¬
out subscribing to or recognising any particular theory or
belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MHNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.'W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubner & Co. London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “ MODEL ” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can asily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
0. J. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms :—3, Ludgate Cibcus Buildings, London, E.O,
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “ HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c,
post free, seven stamps.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions
of events and the weather for every month, &c., &e., with a
large hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lanca¬
shire quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the
British armaments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by
which any person may calculate their own nativity. . Cloth
gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Aye Maria-lane, E.O. .
Annali dello SPIRITISMO IN
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filatete.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
PS YCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly
Journal devoted to the investigation of the unexplained
phenomena of psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksaxoe,
and contributed to by several German and foreign men of
science. Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze.
London: The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
BIRKBEOK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon. ,
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 till 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 16, 1679
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Peesidbitt.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington,
S.W.
YlCB-PEBSIDBlfTS.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Mtz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 0, Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 62, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jenoken, Henry D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-
buildings, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13,
Alexandra-road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park,
W.
Council,.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S.. Vale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road,
Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 6, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 69, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. Oi, Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road, New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square,
W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lampart-haU, Northampton.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower street, W.C.
March, R. A., Heaton Villas, 71, Greenwood road, Dalston.
Mia.11, Rev. W., 71, Richmond road, Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree terrace, Uttoxeter road.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish road, Blundel Sands, near
Liverpool.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, 0., 16, Harpur street, Bloomsbury. W.C.
Pickersgill, W.C., 3, Blandford square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 47, Momington road. Regent’s park.
Stock, St. George, M. A., 8, Museum Villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolf crescent, Maida vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Aim street, Cavendish
square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1,
Hereford square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Honobaby Teeasueee.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford square. South Kensington,
S.W.
AunnoBS.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobold, Esq.
Secbetabt.
Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honoeabt ob CoBBESPomDnrG Mbmbebs.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburgh, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjt?,
Capoussou, Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the. Spiritual Society at
Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach,
Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gueldenstubb, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Eton. Alexander Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburgh.
The Baron von Dirchinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey,
U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna, Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-
Mer.
Boboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheqa, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma HarcUnge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude, Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 46, Drummond-street, Carlton,
Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zbllner, Leipzig, Germany. _
Dr. Maximilian Petty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg
University, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W.H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, South Melbourne,
Victoria, Austra ia.
M. Leymarie, 6, Reu Neuve, des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy,
1, Paris,
Epes Sergent, Esq., Box 2,986, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New
York, U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre, Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W.Jj. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Phila¬
delphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de
1’Europe, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 286, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck,
Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue de Palais, 137, Schaerbeck, Lex-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cavuga Co., New York,
U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel del’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-
square, London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul,' Trieste,
Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.Si, Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
IsaacB. Rich. Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eporjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 64, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaje,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr, J. H., Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near
Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Berks T. Huchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavillion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H, J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York.
T. Blynton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 46 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fitz,
121, Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Fraces,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Bnxton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pestb. Secretary, M.
Anton Prochaszka, Josefstaadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse,
23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquiries into Spiritualism. Hon.
Secretary, T. Blynton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston-
lane, Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.—Mr. A. J. Smart, 22,
Moira-place—Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola Cerventes, 34, 28, Madrid.
President—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad Espirita Central de la Republica Maxicana. Presi¬
dent—Senor Refugio T Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo,
Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Columbia, South America.
President—Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading room and library, with a secre¬
tary in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries.
Seances can be attended by recommendation from a member.
For terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Price 6s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. I he Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of Truth
—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—V. Love
and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII. The Burial of
Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda —IX. The
Meeting of Sigunl and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope for
the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The Eagle of
Freedon—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI. Little Johnny—XVII.
“ Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX
“ I still Live”—XX. Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”
—XXIH. Words o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
prophecy ofVala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle
or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The
Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price
6s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C., Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: the oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac
B. Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor; aided by
a large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical, and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit message department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c. &c. Terms of subscription, in ad¬
vance, 16s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 6. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR, OMERIN,
6, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON
"lyrDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
-l3ii- At home from 12 till 6 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses in
London or the provinces. Address, 92, Caroline St., Notting¬
ham.
ly/TISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
_LyjL 455 Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock.
Voluntary contributions. Private seances attended. Appli¬
cation by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and
Healing. Medical advice to ladies and children.
Terms modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of
business—Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Satur¬
days, from 1p.m. to 6 p.m. 30, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, W.O.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Frank¬
lin, gives seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-
square, from 2 to 6, every day except Sunday, and every
evening from 8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engage¬
ments can be made by letter sent to the above address.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Handwriting, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients, and may be consulted daily
from 2 till 6 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIRVOYANTS and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair; sex and age re¬
quired. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism, Specialities.
At home from 12 till 6 p.m. Patients treated at their homes
when desired. 99, Park-street, Grosvenor-square,London, W.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’dtudea psycho-
logiques, fond6 par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Societe
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
PARED WITH MODERN SPITITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It
shows (we think successfully) that every form of medium-
ship, now so familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical
records of identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one. Is.—These books, ^consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrow¬
ing parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Offise, London, W.O.
FOLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodgings on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
A SELECT CIRCLE, holding Stances for
physical manifestations once a week, requires a few
more members—especially ladies. For particulars, apply to
R. S. T., care of Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
nf % ]fijogr^5 uf jjiinije anh pipl of jfjmjtitmlbttt.
No. 351.—VojLujviE Fourteen; Number twenty.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 16th, 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OE HAMLET*
BY EDWARD W. COX, SERJEANT-AT-LAW, PRESIDENT OF THE PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
Psychology may best be learned and taught by example.
There is no fitter exercise for master and pupil alike than
analysis of character, and from its development in action and
speech to trace the mental structure that so manifests itself.
It is not too much to assert that more knowledge of the
forces by which the mechanism of man is moved and directed,
and of the methods of their action, will be obtained from one
such examination of the conduct and motives of an individual
human being than could be gleaned from a hundred lectures
by metaphysicians dealing only with abstractions, conjectures,
and d priori argument.
But better even than the study of the psychology of a man
living, or who has lived, is the study of some one of the crea¬
tions with which genius has so largely supplied the world;
better, inasmuch as they are more open to inspection, more
familiar, and therefore substantially more real to us than any
actual personage can ever be. So much of every living man
is carefully concealed from view—is, in fact, known only to
himself—that he who has most opened his life and thoughts
to the inspection of his fellow-creatures has doubtless re¬
pressed a great deal more than he has revealed. Of all the
writers who have produced studies for the psychologist
Shakespeare is beyond measure the greatest, and of all the
characters Shakespeare has created there is none so much the
subject of controversy as Hamlet. Libraries have been
written upon him, and yet the theme is not exhausted. It
is debated as eagerly and hotly as ever. But it is not as a
literary controversy that I ask your attention to it. It is as
a psychological study.
The combatants are about equally divided in number and
weight. The question over which they contend is contained
in three words: “Was Hamlet mad?” “Yes, decidedly,,,
says one party. “Certainly not,” shouts the other party.
“ But he acts the madman,” returns the first. “ He only
shams madness,” retorts the other. Proofs are adduced by
both parties that strongly support the contention of each.
It seems to me that the long continuance of this dispute, as
in all debatable questions of science, indicates that somehow
the inquirers are upon the wrong path, and that to discover
the truth we should look in some other direction than that
which has been taken so long without decisive results.
My purpose in this paper is to suggest another view of the
question, based, not upon the old but upon the new mental
physiology. We have emancipated ourselves from the meta¬
physicians for the study of mind generally. We have lately
taken to deal with mind as we deal with the subject-matter
of all physical science, and, banishing d priori argument and
speculative abstractions, we have begun to build up a real
science of mind and soul upon the sure and safe foundation of
fads. We look about us to see what is the action of the
mechanism of man in its normal and its abnormal conditions;
what it does ; what phenomena it exhibits ; how mind and
soul express themselves in action. Then putting all these
facts together, we are confident that we can erect as sound
and secure a structure for psychology as has been erected for
the other sciences by the same process. '
The purpose of this paper is to employ this modern method
of investigation upon the much-debated character of Hamlet
and see what comes of it—if it may not lead us to something
more like a solution of the problem, “ Madness or no mad¬
ness?” which has hitherto absorbed almost wholly the
thoughts and energies of the combatants.
The method I suggest is that we should first see what is
the mental structure of Hamlet, as shown by his acts and
words. Then I think it will Be found that this mental
structure explains the mystery-—without resorting to the
strange conclusion that the man who says some of the wisest
things that ever were uttered was a lunatic.
For remember what madness is. It is disease of the
structure of the brain, or of some part of it, causing irregular
or incomplete performance of some of its functions. Eccen¬
tricity, the result of structure, is not madness, nor allied to
madness. If natural mentaT structure—-that which was born
with him, that which makes him Hamletr and not any other
person—will explain his actions in the play, the lunatic theory
must be abandoned.
Craniology I hold to be an unproved theory. The doctrine
of phrenology, that the brain is the organ or mind, and that
certain parts of the brain have specific mental functions, I
hold to be established, although it is more than doubtful if
we have yet ascertained what particular portions of the brain
are appropriated to those functions. But I accept, as estab¬
lished, that analysis of the mind which phrenology has worked
out and for which psychological science owes to it a debt of
gratitude. I employ that map of the mental faculties, not
only because it is in my judgment correct, but also because
it is generally intelligible.
Hamlet is manifestly of melancholic temperament. He lacks
the faculty of hope. It is the characteristic of such a disposi¬
tion to nurse griefs—to look on the dark side of things. His
first appearance on the stage introduces us at once to this
marked feature. We see the son still grieving for his dead
father, and who would not be comforted. He wears the
deepest mourning while all the Court is robed in wedding
garments. To his mother’s exhortation that he should cease
from seeking his noble father in the dust, and her hint that
his sorrow was more in seeming than in substance, he
answers:—
“ ’Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother, ,
Nor customary suits of solemn black
That can decide me truly-; these indeed ‘ seem,’
Eor they are actions that a man might play;
But I have that within which passeth show.
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.”
The second in prominence of his mental features is irreso¬
lution—a character by no means uncommon. It is, in fact,
a deficiency of the faculty of firmness, and is most conspicuous
in persons possessing large capacities for reasoning and
reflecting. Such minds habitually hesitate. They have their
doubts. They look upon both sides of every question and
balance the pros and cons. They perceive prospective
difficulties and objections not apparent to those who act
without preliminary thought. This characteristic is not, as
commonly supposed, a form of cowardice. The irresolution
that paralyses action is not the product of fear. The judg¬
ment sees so much to attract or to warn, as the case may be,
that it is unable to come to a decision and pronounce a
verdict. Even when resolved to take action, such potent
objections present themselves that the mental energies are
distracted. The will to do is not put forth, as with the in¬
considerate—who feel at once an absolute assurance that the
course resolved upon is the right one.
This characteristic of the young Prince of Denmark is ex¬
hibited throughout the drama. He begins by accepting the
Ghost as the true spirit of his father, and at the moment, in
the passion of the revelation, he promises to avenge the crime.
But he soon begins to reflect, to argue with himself, and then
to question the truth of the manifestation. As his thoughts
dwell upon it, he discovers all kinds of reasons why he might
be mistaken.
“ The spirit that I have seen
May be the devil, and the devil hath power
To assume a pleasing shape: yea, and perhaps
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
As he is very potent with such spirits,
He lures me but to damn me.”
* Bead at a meeting of the Psychological Society of Great Britain, May 1st, 1879.
230
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 16, 1879.
Have we not often witnessed the same process among our¬
selves in relation to other phenomena ?
Hamlet is affectionate and fond. He dearly loved his
father ; he must have been a loving son^ to his mother until
her unnatural marriage revolted him. His friendship for
Horatio was firm and enduring. He loved Ophelia with the
passion of his youth, until the ghostly revelation froze the
life-blood in his veins, and stifled all better feelings in an
absorbing thirst for vengeance. Throughout we can see his
love struggling fiercely with his over-mastering passion for
revenge—his conviction that a duty had been imposed upon
him to which he must sacrifice the past and all its “ fond
records.” How terrible was this mental struggle is shown
in that wonderful scene with Ophelia, in which he bids her
go to a nunnery. Mark how he wavers between his long
cherished love for the girl, whom he avows to have been
thrown in his way purposely to try him, and his resolve to
sustain his assumed character in the presence of the spies who
were watching him. Here again we see the characteristics of
the man betraying themselves in his indecision, his cynical
philosophy, his reflective habits, his incapacity for action—a
character by no means rare in social life. Who has not
known men who can think profoundly and well, but cannot
do ; who rightly point the way, but want the force of will to
follow it ? That is the character of Hamlet. He is a moody
man, and, like all moody men, his spirits are sometimes ex¬
travagantly high, sometimes wretchedly low. Even his
humour is tinged with melancholy, as witness the dialogue
with the gravediggers. According to the mood of the moment
is the aspect to him of the world and all its belongings. It
must be remembered, also, that he was possessed with the
superstition that prevailed down to a very recent time. He
was a philosopher of the Schools, and when Shakespeare em¬
bodied this marvellous creation of his genius, even philoso¬
phers did not doubt the existence of ghosts. It was a part
of the world's creed, and to question it would have been
deemed as rank a heresy as atheism. This must be taken into
account in any estimate of the character of Hamlet as
exhibited in his speech and conduct. He never for a moment
doubted that he had seen a visitor from the other world. The
doubt that troubled him was not if his senses had deceived
him, or imposture trifled with him, but if the Ghost really
was the actual personality it professed to be. It might be a
devil. Was it his father’s spirit, or was it a demon pretend¬
ing to be his father ? He did not for a moment question that
it was a spirit he had seen; he did not suspect that his senses
had been deluded.
This was the other side of the question which his hesitating
mind presented to him. He believed in the potency of evil
spirits. He did not doubt that they could take any shape
and profess any personality for the purpose of entrapping
human souls. It is not difficult to imagine what was the
the course of reasoning in his hesitating mind, and how with
him it paralysed action.
This, then, is the keynote of the entire drama from the
moment of his interview with the Ghost. A clear conception
must be formed of his natural temperament, as I have ven¬
tured to describe it—reflective but irresolute—thoughtful but
inactive,—shocked at first by the shameless marriage of his
mother, afterwards learning that she was not merely a wanton,
but a murderess, a supernatural revelation enforcing him to
vengeance, but his lifted arm paralysed by doubt if the com¬
munication was from above or from below—thus contemplated,
his whole conduct seems to me not only perfectly intelligible
but perfectly natural.
With this necessary introduction, let us proceed to the ex¬
amination of the drama itself, and endeavour to trace in it the
revelations of the character we have sketched.
Let us see how this view of the psychological character of
Hamlet is sustained by the play.
He is, as already noted, first introduced to us labouring
under a fit of melancholy. He is shocked at the marriage of
his mother following so hard upon his father’s funeral. He
has a shadowy suspicion of foul play, as shown by the excla¬
mation, “ Oh, my prophetic soul, my uncle ! ” In this mood
he is startled by the intelligence of the appearance of his
father’s spirit in arms.
He expresses no doubt of the fact, for he feels none. Belief
in ghosts was universal. When Shakespeare made such mar-
II vellous dramatic use of the supernatural, it would have been
deemed insanity to question that spirits walked the earth.
Then comes the interview with the Ghost; the revelation
| of that murder, “ most foul, strange, and unnatural.” With
one of Hamlet’s melancholy temperament such a tale could
| not but “harrow up his soul, freeze his young blood.” And
| it wrought a sudden change in him. His one object in life
| thenceforth should be to avenge his father’s murder. To this
] end, in the haste of the moment, he devises that scheme of
| pretended lunacy which explains the whole future action and
| apparent contradictions of the play. He will “ put an antic
11 disposition on” to avert suspicion from his real purpose.
) | Nothing can be more explicit than his intimation that he was
11 going to assume a character with a distinct and obvious design,
jl Nevertheless, in the face of this express avowal, volumes have
(j been written to contend that Hamlet was really mad.
) | The voices of his frightened friends remind him that he has
(| a part to play, and his purpose is fully shown when they meet.
)| But very soon his constitutional irresolution returns. He
(| doubts, hesitates. I am not sure that he does not—what we
) | see so many do among ourselves—after awhile begin to ques-
11 tion his senses, and doubt to-morrow what he has seen to-day.
) | If he does not distrust the vision altogether, he certainly
(| begins to ask himself if it was an honest ghost. It was the
) i popular belief that the devil could assume all shapes, even
(| those of angels, for the entrapping of souls, and this reflection
(\ made him pause again.
! Certainly this irresolution, this wavering between duty
(for such was vengeance to him) and doubt, could not but
| disturb somewhat a mind not naturally well balanced. He
| is harassed by contending emotions and intellectual conflicts.
In a fit of his melancholy mood he contemplates even suicide
as an escape from that mental disquietude which is the most
frequent cause of self-slaughter. But he steadily maintains
the assumed character of the madman to those about him—
to all observers, except his dear friend Horatio, who is the
I depository of his secrets. With him he is at all times sane
enough. Can a real madman change thus at will ?
But Ophelia—what of her ? “ His behaviour to her is
inexplicable, and inexcusable,” say the critics, “ save on the
assumption of positive madness. She had not offended
I him. She would not betray him. We challenge an expla¬
nation of this consistent with the sanity of a gentleman
j described by Ophelia herself:—
“1 The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
The observed of all observers.’ **
He has loved Ophelia dearly—loves her still; but he
knows her to be innocently the tool of her father. His
sagacity has divined that she is to be made an instrument to
| try him. Polonius implicitly believes in the reality of his
madness, but the King, with the natural suspiciousness of
the guilty, has manifestly in his mind an almost instinctive
sense that Hamlet is playing a part, and his conscience tells
ij him wherefore. Consequently he is most anxious, by per-
Isonal observation, to test him when not himself perceived,
and he accepts with eagerness the proposal of Polonius that
they should hide, and take him unawares, for which purpose
Ophelia is to be set to entrap him into a revelation of his
true condition.
His fellow-students are then set to the like watch for the
like reason—to learn if his madness was real or assumed. He
speedily detects their scheme also.
The appearance of the Players suggests to him the device
of setting a trap for the King. He will have a play that
| shall tell over again, in the presence of the suspected murderers,
the story told him by the Ghost.
Polonius and the King continue their espials. Ophelia is
still the bait employed. On his approach in one of his most
11 melancholy and most meditative moods—when his reasoning
II powers were most active, and his faculty of hope in its most
extreme depression—again they hide and listen. At first he
I is not aware that spies are near him, and his beautiful
I , soliloquy marks surely not the madman, but the philosopher.
I It is not until he has arisen to greet Ophelia that he sees or
\ i hears the spies, and then and therefore he instantly resumes,
| j and abruptly, the “ antic disposition ” he had put on for a
| j purpose. Then follows the extraordinary scene which has
been so persistently advanced as conclusive proof that Hamlet
May 16, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
231
was really insane, and this, in spite of his sudden assumption
of apparent insanity and the obvious motive for it.
We are indebted to Mr. Henry Irving for having rightly
interpreted this much misrepresented scene. Other actors
have made of it an' incoherent raving. He has given to it
its true meaning and expression—a mingling of deep love
for the girl with the conscious need for sustaining before the
hidden witnesses the character he had assumed. The con¬
flict was hard to bear, the work hard to do, and he tries to
stifle the emotions of his love by the affectation of a passion
he does not feel. He is conscious of inflicting a terrible
agony upon her by those u wild and whirling words ” ; but
the consciousness of the ears that were open behind the arras
to catch every syllable that fell from his lips compelled him
to a harshness he was far from feeling. At times his affec¬
tion almost betrays him. But it is exhibited in tone not in
language. Mr. Irving’s expression of this conflict of emotions,
his impulse almost to embrace her, and then his restraining
endeavour to sustain, even by exaggerating, the part he was
playing, is to my mind the true embodiment of Shakespeare’s
design, as it is a triumph of dramatic art—one of those bursts
of true genius for which we would gladly forgive the actor’s
faults, were they ten times more numerous.
Then his advice to the players. Is that madness or any¬
thing that anybody but a mad-doctor could torture into
madness? He is now no longer irresolute. His mind is
made up. The path is plain before him. He had certainly
imparted to his bosom friend, Horatio, all his doubts and
suspicions ; he now confides to him his plot of the play and
invites his assistance. It is given cordially, with what result
we all know.
Assured now that it was an honest Ghost—persuaded that
his college friends Rosencrantz and the gentle Guildenstern
were commissioned to watch him, he maintains his assumed
character with them. The reappearance of the Ghost in the
midst of his passionate interview with his mother marks the
irresolution that had so long held him inactive. And again
at the close of this marvellous scene he tells his mother not
to let the King by his endearments
“ Make you to ravel all this matter out,
That I essentially am not in madness.
But mad in craft.”
The irresolution had again shown itself in the closet when
the King kneeling in prayer, and the opportunity for ven¬
geance offering, he failed to avail himself of it—his wavering
reasons for inaction plainly proving that he could not make
up his mind. Hearing a noise behind the arras he kills
Polonius believing the spy to be the King. It was infirmity
of purpose still, not insanity.
The question has been often asked why, now that he was
assured of his uncle’s guilt, he did not at once proceed to
fulfil the promise he had made to avenge his father’s murder?
Opportunities could not have been wanting. Why did he
quit Denmark, leaving his work undone ? Even after his
return, so craftily brought about, his purpose remains blunted.
He meets the King in the churchyard, but does nothing.
Even the catastrophe is not of his seeking. He was the in¬
tended victim of the passage at arms, and the blow that slew
the King avenged more his own murder than that of his
father. Thus to the last his character is maintained with
most admirable consistency. A character meditative not
active—highly intellectual and reflective, but wavering,
vacillating, doubting. Certainly he is not mad, nor is there
the slightest approach to madness. Every act simulating
madness is carefully calculated. Madness never yet talked so
wisely as he talks when it is not his cue to assume the antic
disposition.
I hope, therefore, to have established something like a case
against the insanity theory so steadily maintained by so many
critics, and notably by an eminent M.D., who should be an
authority upon such a question, seeing that he was, if he is
not now, the principal of a public asylum. I trust, so far as
a psychological investigation of the play can do so, to have
satisfied those who may have doubted that Hamlet really was
and did what he has himself described in these passages:—
“ Here, as before, never, so help you mercy.
How strange or odd soe’er 1 bear myself,
As I, perchance, hereafter shall think meet
To put an antic disposition on.”
) | Again:—
11 “ Ham.—But my uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
11 ‘c Guild.—In what, my dear lord ?
II “ Ham.—I am but mad north-north-west; when the wind is southerly
| I know a hawk from a hernshaw.”
And yet again:—
I “ Queen.—This is the very coinage of your brain;
j This bodiless creation ecstasy,
Is very cunning in
| (e Ham.—Ecstasy!
My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
And makes a healthful music. It is not madness
That I have uttered. Bring me to the test
H";” And I the matter will reword, which madness
Would gambol from.”
And lastly:—
<c That I
Essentially am not in madness,
11 But mad m craft.”
ij AN OLD WITCH STOBY.
J | One of the best old witch tales of the Ettrick Eorest district is related of
(| the celebrated Michael Scott, master of Oakwad. It used to be told as
) i follows :—There was one of Michael’s tenants who had a wife that was the
>) most notable witch of the age. So extraordinary were her powers, that
J j the country people began to put them in competition with those of the
j | master, and say that in some cantrips she surpassed him. Michael could
j ill brook such insinuations, for there is always jealousy between great
I characters, and went over one day with his dogs, on pretence of hunting,
i to see Lucky . He found her alone in the field weeding lint; and
j | desired her to show him some of her powerful art. She was very angry,
11 and denied that she had any supernatural skill. He, however, continued
i\ to press her. She sharply told him to let her alone, else she would
1! make him repent the day he troubled her. How she perceived the virtues
(I of Michael’s wand is not known, but in a moment she snatched it from
! his hand and gave him three lashes with it. The knight was instantly
) | changed to a hare, when the malicious and inveterate hag cried out, laughing,
) i “ Away, Michael, run or die,” and baited his own dogs upon him. He
(j was extremely hard hunted, and was obliged to swim the river, and take
\ i shelter in the sewer of his own castle from the fury of his pursuers, where
) | he got leisure to change himself to a man.
)! Michael, extremely chagrined at having been thus outwitted, studied a
(| deadly revenge; and going over afterwards to hunt, he sent his man to
j j Eauldshope to borrow some bread from Lucky to give to his dogs, for he
) | had neglected to feed them before he came from home. If she gave him
) j the bread, he was to thank her and come away; but if she refused, he gave
(I him a line written in red characters which he was to lodge above the lin-
(| tel as he came out. The servant found her baking bread, as his master had
) | assured him he would, and delivered his message. She refused to give him
) | any bread. The man said no more, but lodged the line as directed; and re-
(j turned to his master. The powerful spell had the desired effect: Lucky 
j I instantly left her work and danced round and round the fire like one mad,
j j singing the while with great glee,
1“ Master Michael Scott’s man
Cam seeking bread an’ got nane.”
| The dinner-hour arrived, but the reapers looked in vain for their dame who
j was wont to bring their provisions to them to the field. The goodman sent
j home a servant-girl to assist her, but neither did she return. At length he
I ordered them to go and take their dinner at home, for he supposed that his
| spouse had taken some of her tirravees. All of them went inadvertently in¬
doors, and as soon as they passed beneath the mighty charm, were seized
j with the same mania, and followed the example of their mistress. The good-
I man, who had tarried behind, came home last; and, hearing the noise before
he came near the house, he did not venture in, but peeped m at the window.
I There he beheld all his people dancing round and round the fire and singing
| with the most frantic wildness. His wife was at that time quite exhausted,
I and the rest were half trailing her round. She could only now and then
| pronounce a syllable of the song, which she did with a kind of scream, yet
seemed as intent on the sport as ever.
11 The goodman rode with all speed to the master to inquire what he had
(j done to nis people. Michael Scott bade him take down the note from the lintel
> j and burn it, which he did, and all the people returned to their senses. Poor
)! Lucky —— died overnight, and Michael remained unmatched in all the
(I arts of enchantment and necromancy.
j! Mb. Bobebt Coopeb writes to us from Boston, U.S.A., a letter, “taking
) | a side ” in American spiritualistic contentions. As all the merits of the
(| case are not before the readers of these pages, the tribunal is not adapted
J! to express an opinion upon an ex parte statement.
11 Chinese Eunebaxs.—When a Chinese funeral takes place one of the
11 mourners or a friend of the deceased sits with the driver, and as the hearse
(i passes along he scatters slips of perforated paper along the street. It
j | appears that these paper charms are thrown out all the way from the house
) i to the cemetery, the object being to keep the evil spirits from getting the
I j body. It is supposed that they follow the dead body in crowds, determined
! | on mischief, but that, being very curious, they stop whenever they see these
j paper slips, examine them carefully, and try to get at their significance.
| Meanwhile the procession hurries on, other slips being thrown out, thus
| keeping the little spirits occupied in their studies till the friends get the
i body buried, and beyond their reach.—Rdigio-Philosophical Journal.
232
THE SPIRITUALIST.;
May 16, 1879.
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY 1
In a discussion once -carried on by astrologers in these
pages, there was, we think, little to convince anybody that
the subject in which they were interested had any real
foundation, and they wandered away into details before
verifying the main point. Predictions whether particular
children will die in infancy, or live, have little weight when
verified, since the chances are even that any guess will be
right. But the first two cases given below are startling in
their accuracy:—
ASTROLOGICAL PREDICTIONS VERIFIED.
Mercurius’s Predicting Almanack for 1878 (Curtice and Co., Catherine-
street. Strand) was published in the autumn of 1877. Under “Predictions
for January,” we find, “ Yictor Emmanuel’s nativity is affiicted; let him
beware.” The king died on the 9th of that month. Under “ Predictions
for December,” is the following:—“ Saturn’s transits are evil for the Princess
Alice of Hesse. Illness, or a death in the family.” The Princess died on
the 14th, a few weeks after one of her children. ZadkieVs Almanack for
1879 (Cousins and Co., 3, York-street, Covent-garden) was published in the
autumn of 1878. Among the “Predictions for January ” is this one :—
“About the llth of this .month accidents will occur in mines.” The great
Dinas Colliery explosion happened on the 13th. Under the heading “Partial
Eclipse of the Moon at the Cape of Good Hope,” at page 46 of the Almanack,
we read, “The ecliptic conjunction takes place at 1.5 p.m. of January 22nd,
Cape mean time".'. . Saturn in the eleventh (house) will bring some
difficulties on the Government, and these may be chiefly in connection with
hostile acts perpetrated by discontented tribes, as Mars squares Saturn from
the seventh house.” On the day named, the 22nd, occurred the disaster to
our troops at Isandkna. These predictions are taken from copies which
were in my possession in or before November of 1877 and 1878 respectively.
C.C.M.
DR. SLADE IN AUSTRALIA.
| ^The Sydney Evening News of March 3rd, 1879, contains the following:— j (
“In my article in the Argus I have not stated one-half of what I have |)
seen, but, among other things, I may mention this: Dr. Slade was at my j)
private house. - On entering the dining-room with me for the first time, a \l
chair in the far end of the room wheeled round and drew up to the table : i (
it was quite eight feet away from any of us. During the evening a lady and j)
gentleman came in, and I got a common school slate and a chip of pencil, and j)
Dr. Slade immediately laid it on top of the table, it never having been i(
once out of sight or under the table, and a message was written on it from j \
a sister of a lady then present. Again, a gentleman went to him with a j)
book slate tied and sealed up; he refused to open it, but in spite of his pre- j)
caution writing took place inside; and not only that, but it was in green, If
proving incontestably that, it was written with the chip of green pencil j v
locked up inside. Now the question arises, what did it ? Surely some Iv
invisible force. What,, then, is this invisible force? It must have intelfi- |(
gence to \yrite answers, bearing on questions asked,and having intelligence, | (
surely it "must emanate from the soul or spirit of some person. Can it be
the medium’s spirit ? Can the medium see into the past events of my life, | y
and not only answer questions and speak of people known to me, but also j)
use I housenold words1 and phrases common to a certain person of my I)
acquaintance, and some months dead ? Can the medium by his will-power K
not only do all this, but tie a peculiar knot in a handkerchief, that was ! v
identical with that tied by one other person who died, when he (the i;
medium) was about eight or nine years old and totally unacquainted with i)
him. I say, no! .ha cannot do it, and I do not see what else can, unless it i (
be the spirits of the people it purports to represent. I have just come back !)
from,Melbourne, and on Saturday night last, on the Barrabool, all alone !)
(Dr. Slade in.Melbourne), I got raps on my bunk, and questions were l)
answered that I could not verify until I reached Sydney, and on arrival I i(
lound they were all perfectly correct. In closing this letter, I would like to j)
call attention to the fact of Edwin Drood having been finished by a mechanic j)
in America, who acted as Amanuensis to the spirit of Charles Dickens. I j)
have read some of the extracts to a great admirer of Dickens and a severe
critic, and it was'at once allowed, as nought else but the work of Dickens j)
himself. Let your , readers get it and judge for themselves;; it will as- i)
tound all anti-Spiritualists. E. Cyril Haviland. I)
“ Burwood, February 28f%C (
The late Lord Brougham and Spiritualism.—In connection with
the name of Robert Dale Owen we are reminded of the illustrious English¬
men who have upheld Spiritualism in company with his beloved and world-
renowned father, Robert Owe.n, yvho, by the request of Lord Brougham,
attended the seances of Mrs. Dk Hayden twenty-six years ago, and who,
although a positive disbeliever 'of immortality—although he had, in 1826,
proclaimed religion to be one of the trinity of evils that had degraded man¬
kind—adopted the truth at once when he witnessed the demonstration, and
at the celebration of his eighty-third birthday, some weeks later, stood up
before the large array, chiefly of sceptics, materialists, and atheists, who
loved and idolized him as a father, afid there, with Mrs. Hayden by his side,
proclaimed his solemn conviction of1, immortality amid the most intense
though subdued emotion of those men—his life-long associates in reform—
who mourned to see in him the pillar of their unbelief overthrown. With
the same Courage with which he had prdelaimed his unbelief he proclaimed
his behef for the remainder of his life. There was an example of the love of
truth, but not a solitary example among the great men of England, or
among good men of any country, for the love of humanity lifts men into the
atmosphere of truth.—Professor Buchanan.
Cotregpon&ence*
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be
returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which are
not anonymous.]  
A WORD FROM AN OUTSIDER.
Sir,—The Rev. W. Miall’s very interesting and able paper in The
Spiritualist of April the 25th affords opportunity for a few remarks from
those unfortunates, the “ Outsiders.” He speaks of the “ alleged accessible¬
ness of the alleged phenomena, which we are told occur not only in distant
lands but here in England, in London, in the next street, in the houses of
our friends. Without much cost of either trouble or money, we may for
ourselves see what is to be seen, hear what is to be heard, and examine
whatever evidence is wont to be adduced, and subject that evidence to
whatever sifting or testing process our sagacity may suggest.”
Now, this is by no means so much the case as may be supposed, or as
may at first sight appear. The facts are not easily accessible to investigators
■—are not open to general scrutiny. Owing to the peculiar conditions, and
the strict rules necessary to be maintained, nearly all private circles are
closed as soon as formed: even friends with every wish to help finding it
almost impossible to do so, whilst the paid sources available to us are
becoming few and far between.
Mr. MiaU. refers . to the temporariness of the zeal of apparently sincere and
earnest converts—to persons once prominent among its supporters, who
now never refer to it, and who seem to have lost interest in it—“ which
recreancy requires explanation.” Now, for this loss of interest, real or
apparent, we can give one reason which has come under our own notice. We
know cases in which great and sincere interest in the subject has given
place to entire silence and avoidance of it, and to complete withdrawal in
bitterness of spirit at finding every avenue barred. We know others in
which the endeavour to secure the truth, ending only in disappointment, has
led to the conclusion that a theory or belief, affording so little opportunity
for thorough investigation, which is confined to a mere handful, shutting
out the large majority, must after all be a delusion. Again, there are those
to whom Spiritualism has become not only a belief but a religion, influencing
all their thoughts and actions—a religion in which, come what may, they
are determined, to live and die. They go after the phenomena (whenever the
kindness of friends or a favourable opportunity may permit), not from idle
curiosity, not from love of novelty or excitement, but with an intense
yearning for the comfort which haply they may and sometimes do derive
from it. Nevertheless, they have to remain outsiders'; to stifle many a
heartache when ,they hear of the constant, almost daily consolation which
others more fortunate receive from it. Mr. Miall truly says, “ it is of con¬
siderable importance that Spiritualists should know how outsiders are
affected by incidents about which it may be the initiated were themselves
once exercised, but whose influence upon them they, since their period of
full conviction, have perhaps forgotten.”
If Spiritualism is really the key to a future life—if it lifts the black cloud
of uncertainty which has so long obscured our horizon, if it removes, once
for all, that horrible nightmare, the ever-recurring dread of death, if it opens
out not only a world to come, but a life full of intellect, activity, and pro-
ression—is it not the grandest, the greatest boon that ever dawned upon
umanity ? Ought it not to be preached almost to the very stones ? Should
not every effort be made for the further spreading of it ? But the literature
alone will not do this, neither will a stray lecture here and there in our
towns suffice to accomplish that object. It is not a subject to be taken up
only at intervals or in fragments.
There is a class now standing on the border land unwilling Ito give up the
subject, yet unable to gain a firm footing. Eor this class Mr. Fletcher’s
course of earnest and eloquent lectures nas done and is stil doing much,
and we hope the time is not far distant when yet more help will be given to
those who are earnestly inquiring. We hear of evil and undeveloped spirits
who claim sympathy and aid, and we are willing to give them a great deal
of the former and as much of the latter as may lie in our power.; but we are
selfish enough to wish that the case of outsiders in this world m1 ght be taken
into consideration before the undeveloped ones of the next. We do not
expect private circles to be opened to us, for we know that cannot be done,
but we heartily concur in wisbing that “ some three or four or half-dozen
representative Spiritualists whose names command public respect should be
invited to adopt every possible means of advertising the world, of inviting
inquiry and investigation.” And for such a work we also think “ all neces¬
sary pecuniary means would be forthcoming.” We agree with Mr, Miall’s
suggestion that the object upon which effort should be concentrated should
be rather conviction of the occurrence of the phenomena than the admission
of any theory respecting their cause. Facts first, explanations afterwards.
To thrust forward the latter before the former are admitted is to retard
their admission. What men need most of all to be assured of is “ that these
things do really occur.” In concluding, we would observe that these remarks
do not emanate only from an individual, but embody the sentiments and
wishes of many An Outsider.
non-professional lectures.
Sir,—There appears to be a growing and sincere desire on the part of
many unbelievers in the, alleged phenomena of modern Spiritualism to
ascertain what are the facts in relation to them.
I find everywhere a wish expressed to hear from a non-professional and
unpaid investigator a statement of the alleged facts, and a yet further
desire for an opportunity of questioning such an investigator to any extent.
Permit me through your pages to make the following announcement,
viz.: That I am prepared, at considerable sacrifice of time and convenience,
to visit any of the following centres of intelligence, viz.: London, Glasgow,
Edinburgh, Manchester, Liverpool, and Birmingham, to deliver a lecture in
defence of the reality and genuineness of the alleged phenomena of modern
Spiritualism, before any audience, in any room, on the following conditions:
That the chair be occupied by any respectable and well-known inhabitant;
May 16, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
233
that the committee of management consist for the most part of unbelievers in
the phenomena of modern Spiritualism; that the proceeds of the lectures be
given to any benevolent institution; and that I be paid first-class railway
fare to and from the place of lecture, and have provided for me respectable
hotel accommodation for one evening.
I would lecture about one hour, and submit to be questioned for any length
of time the audience may desire. In the lecture I would defend the genuine¬
ness of modern spiritual phenomena; would affirm that no known natural
laws can be shown to account for them, and that the most rational and
defensible hypothesis is that of their being of extra or supra-mundane origin.
I would further suggest, that if this offer be accepted, that every scientific
professor, medical practitioner, and lawyer in the locality should by com¬
plimentary ticket be invited to attend, in order that the best arguments
and the most crucial questions on the negative side of this vexed question
may be heard, and, if possible, answered.
I shall feel obliged if any of your readers who know intelligent sceptics
in any of the localities above named, would kindly forward to them a marked
copy of this letter, in order to induce them to make arrangements for the
lecture, and have an opportunity of hearing and questioning one who, after
twenty-five years’ careful investigation, believes that the evidence for the
reality of the phenomena is incontroveriible.
T. P. Baukas, B.G.S.
Art Gallery, Newcastle-on-Tyne, May 11th, 1879.
SPIRIT MESSAGES.
Sir,—Some months back I wrote to the Secretary of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, suggesting the desirability of establishing a
“ Message Department ” in The Spiritualist similar to the one that appears
weekly in The Banner of Light, and I offered an annual subscription towards
the accomplishment of this object, provided a few others would come forward
and help also. My letter was referred to the Committee, and the Secretary
wrote me that you would be requested to notice the matter in your paper,
but I have heard nothing further about it.
I feel convinced that the course I advocate would be the means of spread¬
ing a knowledge of “ Spiritualism ” where other channels fail, and I shall be
glad if you will advocate the question in your columns. It should not be a
matter of much difficulty to arrange with some good medium to devote one
day in the week to such a purpose, and the cost might well be defrayed by
those that have the good of the cause at heart.
J. G. Meugens.
The Manor House, Penge, Surrey, 13th May, 1879.
[The Association never informed us of the above offer of some months back, and we
knew nothing about it till this letter arrived last Tuesday.—Ed.]
“ Present in the Spirit ; ”—An elderly lady, the mother of gentlemen
well known in politics and business in this city, herself in a low state of
health, who now has her residence in the south-western portion of the city,
awoke from a sleep last Monday afternoon and at once broke out in a fit of
violent weeping, which attracted the attention of all in the house. When
quieted, she said that her husband, long since dead, had appeared to her in a
dream and told her that her daughter was dying. This incident was related
to persons in another part of the city, during the same day, and before the
person who told of it had any knowledge of what is recited hereafter.
That the mother, who knew that her daughter had been for some time sick
should become impressed with the idea that she was dying was not sin¬
gular, as that mignt easily have resulted from apprehensions which had,
no doubt, been entertained. The remarkable fact is this: On the same
day, as near as can be ascertained, at the exact time when the mother
was manifesting distress of mind, the daughter roused herself in her bed
of sickness, in a house on Arbor Hill, and said to her attendant, u Why,
how my mother is crying! ” and a moment later, “ Don’t you hear her
cry?” the nurse heard nothing, and was obliged to say so, although the
sick woman repeatedly asserted that her mother was crying, and endeav¬
oured to convince the nurse that she heard her. The younger lady died
on Wednesday and was buried on Saturday.—Albany Argus.
The Effects of Kindness. — The following, from the Cape Ann
Advertiser (Mass.), shows what may be the general experience, when it
shall be no longer the habit of man to shoot and kill the more harmless
members of the lower creation:—“ A pleasing sight may be witnessed at
Magnolia—a lady standing in the doorway of her dwelling with some dozen
little forest birds flitting about her and feeding from the palm of her
extended hand. Prom one to four birds at a time will feed from her hands
seemingly with a sense of perfect safety, while others will snap up a crumb,
dart off to a tree or roof, devour it, and come back for another. When the
supply of food runs short they will alight and peck at the bottom of her
dress. An observer of this interesting scene must keep at a proper distance
and remain silent, or the birds will be frightened away. While feeding them
the lady keeps up a constant chatting, which they seem to understand, and
respond by chirping. They know her voice and will come at her bidding,
however much she may disguise herself. If she neglects them in the morning
they will flutter their wings against the window-pane to attract her atten¬
tion, and she never fails to answer their summons. Their confidence was of
gradual growth, commencing some six years ago, when shelves were attached
to the outside window-sills, and crumbs of bread, meat, cheese, &c., were
placed there for their refection, the lady standing inside and talking kindly
to them while they fed themselves, now and then indulging in a reprimana
when they were selfish and quarrelsome. From the Window they were led
in time to the doorway for their daily rations. Her little flock make their
appearance in the winter when the ground is first covered with snow, their
hours for meals being at sunrise and late in the afternoon. As soon as their
wants are supplied they are off to the woods again. The visitors evidently
belong to the same stock, some of them returning from year to year ana
recognizing the lady’s voice, for at their first appearance annually a part of
them will come to her hand at her first call, while no other person can
approach within two rods of them.”
| INDIAN JUGGLERY.
| (i Dr. Slade has, on the whole, been treated well in Australia, though of
[:! j course here and there he has met with abuse from the ignorant. Some of
i l l the latter class have put their valueless ideas in a pamphlet sent us from
j )! Sydney, and one of the writers gives the following testimony as to juggling
f (i performances he witnessed in India :—
I) I “1 have seen a village juggler do a much more wonderful trick than that,
m It was at Sonepore fair, in 1872 or’73. It is called the floating trick—
i i i suspending a body in the air without any visible support. Dr. Sylvester
I)! did the trick here, but experts well know that an iron or steel rod projects
!) | from the back of the stage, being hidden by the seemingly floating body,
ill The conjuror passes hi§ sword apparently all round in every direction,
i (! meeting no resistance on any side. It does seem inexplicable. In the case
ijl I saw in India it was done in a shamiana—that is, under a covered canopy.
1) j A young girl was seemingly suspended in mid-air. The green turf was
| (| beneath, the canvas walls of the shamiana above and on every side. ’Tis
j {| true, the English spectators all sat on one side. Yet there were natives all
|) | round, and they seemed as astonished as we were. I could not account for
|) I it, but the jadugar, or juggler, expressly told us, in answer to repeated
i«| queries, that it was a trick learned from his father,—a pure deception of
i (j the senses. Let Spiritualists say it was the spirits if they choose. I
| j i believe the juggler himself, although I cannot explain how the thing was
[) I done.
I (; “ The same juggler on the same occasion did a trick which I have often
•I (l seen done, and have heard explained, but which always seemed to me very
|) | wonderful. It is the well-known basket trick. I never saw it better done
i) j than by a handsome young juggler from Benares, who used to amuse me by
II his ‘ hanky-panky ’ one time I was confined to my couch by an attack of
| rheumatism. The scene of operations was my own verandah. A well-built,
I plastered brick floor. Natives squatting on their hams all around, watching
| with eager, interested looks every movement of the light, supple, handsome
I young ‘ Jadugar.’ His body was bare from the waist upwards, and his long,
! coal-black hair was tied behind in a knot. He had none of the ordinary
impedimenta or accessories. He produced a narrow, oblong cane-work
basket, which I was allowed to examine. It appeared simple enough. No
i false bottom, side, or lid was perceptible. Next he introduced his son, a
<1 handsome little fellow about ten years old. The boy was enveloped in a net,
which I myself examined, tied firmly round the ends, and sealed the knots
i with my own seal. The boy was slung like a rabbit in a net, and I swung
I him myself off the ground. Thus enclosed, the boy was put in the basket.
I A clotn was borrowed from an adjacent native and spread over the basket,
| and the lid then put over the whole. The juggler then went through some
!) j other antics, but I did not take my eye from the basket. After a very short
|) | time the man removed the lid, took a leap into the air, and came down with
jin all his weight right in the centre of the basket. Had the boy been there,
|{i the shock was enough to rupture his diaphragm—we only heard a groan,
i) I Again the lid was put on the basket. The juggler took a sharp, long, slender
j) j rapier-like sword, and ran it through and through the basket. Blood issued
| (j freely. The natives looked horror-stricken and gasped out their cries of
j (| pity. I must confess I was puzzled. I was still more dumbfounded when
i)| the juggler began to call out loudly in Hindoostanee for his boy. A
i) | childish voice, seemingly from a great distance, answered him. The call
| (i and the answer was repeated, this time a little nearer, until at length the
| (| boy, smiling and uninjured, came tripping through the crowd from the out-
j) j side of the verandah. The basket was opened, and there at the bottom
I lay the empty net, seals intact, and not a tittle of evidence to show how
I the trick was done.
“ Now, surely you will admit that this was more wonderful than any of
the so-called spirit manifestations that the most gifted medium has ever
received. Every sense was deceived, and yet the explanation to those who
know the trick is very simple. The spirits have nothing to do with it. I
j {j might go on to describe the mango tricks, and others equally wonderful and
I!" | equally capable of explanation, but space forbids.
“ Some people make a great point of having taken different coloured
I pencils to Slade’s stances. One gentleman took a green pencil, which was
put upon one corner of the slate, and the writing was green—ergo, the spirits
I must have written with it, because Dr. Slade could not have known what
j colour the pencil was, and he denied having written the message. A most
convincing test indeed. The same gentleman is not, however, satisfied,
j He wishes to have a seance, during vmch one of the company (let us hope
j a candid sceptic) will lie beneath the table. That seems fair. I have seen
a common village juggler in India mix five or six different coloured powders
! together, put them into a tumblerful of water and drink them off. I
! have examined his mouth to see that the powders were not concealed there,
i Then, with his hands tied behind Ids back, I have asked him to produce a
j yellow powder. He grates his teeth and out comes a pile of DRY yellow
powder on the top of his little drum. Ask for blue: the blue is proauced.
j Ask for white : the white succeeds the blue; and so on, whatever colour you
I name, that colour instantly appears.”
! Mrs. Makdougall Gregory has so far recovered from her illness, that
I she is able to drive out occasionally,
j Dr. Locander has returned from Naples to Paris.
Dr. Slade will shortly return from Australia to New York ma San
! Francisco.
_ Spiritualism in Dalston.—Last Monday night, the Dalston Associa-
I tion of Inquirers into Spiritualism held a conversazione at their rooms, 53,
I Sigdon-road, Hackney-downs, London. Music and singing were the chief
| attractions, and those who contributed to the entertainment of the assembly
I were Mrs. Elgie Corner, Madame Ourry, Miss Tippins, Mr. T. Blyton, Mr.
i Davey, Mr. and Miss Coldrey, Mr. J. Bruce Gillon, and Mr. Norrington.
j Mr. Thomas Shorter made a few brief remarks, and the evening closed with
dancing.
234
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 16, 1879.
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS IN PUBLIC. fj
(2b the Editor of the ft Beligio-Philosophical Journal” Chicago, April \2th.) ](
If Mrs. Rosalie C. Simpson, the slate-writing and flower \)
medium of your city, gained a signal victory over the editor i
of the St. Louis Globe-Democrat, a full account of which was |
published in your paper, she also achieved yesterday, March j)
30th, 1879, if possible, a greater one. She came to our place |i
by special invitation, to attend our anniversary, and at the I j
quiet, pleasant home of Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Merritt, she l(
held some private stances under test conditions, which, I am j)
told, were highly satisfactory to all who attended them. At one j (
of these private stances, Mr. G-eorge A. Geer, of Minnesota, j)
received in a glass of water, one red and two white carnation | (
pinks, as fresh and real as I ever saw. Being much pleased !)
at receiving them, he brought them in the glass of water to the i (
meeting, and made a full statement of the manner in which he j)
had obtained them, to an audience of four hundred persons, ! (
many of whom were sceptics. The flowers were passed | j
round, and the audience curiously examined them, after which I (
a gentleman, John Deshon, an old and wealthy settler, arose, j)
and in a defiant manner challenged Mrs. Simpson, who was i (
present on the platform, to duplicate the manifestation then i)
and there, in broad light, before that audience, under the j (
same conditions as previously given to Mr. Geer—demanding j)
that she should produce one red and two white carnation jy
pinks in a glass of water for him, and he would give her fifty j)
dollars. Afterwards he raised it to a hundred dollars, but l j
fell back again to fifty. I)
The house was thrown into the greatest confusion ; for a i (
few minutes it was impossible to maintain order, but in the I)
midst of the uproar Mrs. Simpson rose to her feet, and in a i (
quiet, business-like manner, accepted the defiant challenge just j)
as it had been given. She deliberately repeated the words of i \
the challenger, and made a clear statement of what she would j)
do. There was no dodging or equivocation on the part of j(
either. Complete victory or utter defeat was the only alter- ;)
native. Though Mrs. Simpson was not excited in the least, j (
that I could observe, yet the spirit of undaunted courage |)
flashed from her eyes. * | /
Mr. Deshon now came forward, and was seated beside j(
Mrs. Simpson upon the platform, and they proceeded to j)
business, the former taking a glass of water with a slate [|
beneath it, pressing it hard against the under part of the |)
table, while the latter bared her arm to the elbow, and i (
seating herself fifteen or twenty inches from tbe table, also j)
put her hand on the slate, and in less than three minutes i (
the materialistic sceptic removed the slate and glass from ij
beneath the table, and held it up before the audience, when, j j
wonderful to tell, the glass contained one red and two white |)
carnation pinks, thus duplicating in every particular the
test demanded. The greatest excitement followed, and Mrs. i j.
Simpson, who stood before the audience, was enthusiastically | (
applauded. . ■ :
Mr. Deshon bore his defeat with manly courage, saying K
that all the religion he had was to do as he agreed, and j)
especially to pay honest debts; accordingly he took out his 11
pocket-book, slowly counted out fifty dollars in greenbacks, i |
and with great tenderness and seeming reluctance, he handed ] \
the money over to Mrs. Simpson. It was received with 11
thanks. j v
In conclusion, let me add that Mrs. Simpson not only j)
gave private seances, but three public seances before crowded i (
houses, in broad light, all of which, so far as I have learned, ] /
gave entire satisfaction. Her visit to our city has caused a I)
great interest in Spiritualism. A. J. Fishback. i /
Battle Creek, Mich., March. 31, 1879. , ! I)
The nearest Metropolitan Railway Station to Stein way Hall, in which I)
Mr. J. W. Fletcher delivers his interesting lectures, is Baker-street. - K
New Books.—Captain John James’s new book, Mesmerism, with Hints |)
for Beginners, will he published at The Spiritualist Office, next Tuesday, i r
Captain James was an intimate friend of the late Dr. Elliotson, and has had I (
thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism. His book meets a public demand, j(
there being, at present, no small work on Mesmerism by a well-educated I)
writer, in general circulation, and we expect the little volume to hold its j)
ground for a generation or two, as a standard elementary text-book. Captain j (
James, being a soldier, indulges in no waste of words ; he is concise and j (
clear throughout the work. The first volume of Mr. Harrison’s work. Spirits j;
before our Byes, will come out at the close of next week, and is already in I)
encouragingly extensive demand. i*
FREE SUNDAY EVENING CLAIRVOYANT SEANCES.
Every Sunday evening, at seven o’clock, services in connection with
Spiritualism are held at the Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour Street, Port"
man Square, London, by Mr. J. W. Fletcher, and the proceedings close
with a public trance and clairvoyant stance. The meetings are well con¬
ducted, the accommodation for the public is good, and these gatherings are
proving exceedingly beneficial to Spiritualism, for they are attracting earnest
attention on the part of some of those who have previously given little
thought to the subject. The following is a report of what took place at the
close of the service last Sunday night :—•
Mr. Fletcher, in the clairvoyant state, said: As I was sitting during the
singing, I saw a spirit come very near to me, and it still stands before me.
She brings with her the spirit of a child—of a little girl—who she is holding
by the hand, and they both appear to wish to signify their presence to a
gentleman present. The child has been some time in the spirit world, for
I know by the brightness of the light that she comes from some very spiritual
sphere, remote from earth-life. She holds up some beautiful white flowers,
which signify her name in some way. Now I see her name written before
me—“ Daisy.” It is her spirit name as well. I see these words written—
“We are all with you to-night, but I tried most to come, because I have
been sitting beside you all the evening, and I knew you would be glad to
hear a word from me. I wanted to fill you with a stronger thought and
influence, that I might come closer to you by-and-by. We are nearer to
you than any earthly friends can be, for we can read your heart. Let all your
doubts pass away, they only keep us further from you. We are both here.1’
I see “ Robert ” written as well, as belonging to the gentleman they came
with. There is some lady here as well, to whom they came to speak. They
may indicate the persons to whom they come, perhaps.
A gentleman here rose and said that a lady present had asked him to state
that she recognised the spirits.
Mr. Fletcher continued: A spirit of a gentleman is near me, who has
been in spirit-life for a year; he is rather tall, has blue eyes—not black or
dark. He has a brown beard, and looks down to my left, saying—“I have
been with you all the time you were away, and while you were in associa¬
tion with one very dear to us bothj and I am glad to see, too, how well he
is doing. 1 feel he is the one link between the future and the past, and
though miles and miles separate him from you, I am often with you both.
I will try to help him to be a useful man by aiding him to unfold his mind.
I am often with you in your home—oftener still with him. Often your
thoughts stray back to the past, and when you think strongly of me it is
because my spirit-presence is about you.” He is speaking to somebody on
my left.. If anybody recognises him, the saying so will help the spirit and
be a relief to me. He is waiting for recognition.
There was no response.
Mr. Fletcher, alter a long pause, added: If anybody recognises the
spirit, will he kindly say so ? I cannot get free from his influence—that is
why I ask.
Still no response.
Mr. Fletcher, after waiting some time, said: I see the spirit of a lady
who has not been long in the spirit world. She seems very anxious to
speak to some friend of hers here, in the earth-life, and she is beckoning as
ii calling to some one from this hall. I am taken far away from here to a
large place where the people are assembled together; music fills the place,
and while the people wait I see her walk out before me. Now I see her
suffering and in, and there are two who she is very anxious to speak to—
one who was not near her when she died, and the other was kind to her
when here. I see a wreath of flowers and the letter “ T,” and that is
meant as the initial of her name. She says: “ It is not for any test that I
have come, but because of my great desire to tell those who were kind
to me here that though my voice is still in death, I am happy in a land
fairer than this. I am with my friends—let them know that. When they
stand ia the place dear to me, and look into the eyes of the people I love,
I am there too, and I rejoice that I still live in the hearts of my people.”
An officer in the army here rose, and said that he fully recognised the
description. After the close of the proceedings, the information was given
to us that the description applied to Titiens, and that a day or two pre¬
viously he had placed a wreath of flowers on her grave. Will he next week
authenticate this, by publishing full details with his name and address
appended ?
Mr. Fletcher continued: Somebody calls “ Helen! ” There are two
you wish to speak to, but Helen is the nearest.
The medium was next entranced, and gave a short address on “Freedom,”
from the spirit of the late George Thompson, anti-slavery reformer, and
formerly M.P. for the Tower Hamlets.
Mr. Fletcher, again in the clairvoyant state, said : There is the spirit of a
gentleman here, almost in the earth life. He says: “ I wish to send a
message to my brother. Tell him it is his own fault if he does not hear
from me more; he has strength of raediumship enough, and I am with him
often, very often. When he allows his fingers to wander, I sometimes try
to lead them into the old familiar words, to remind him of my presence. I
have come to-night to renew a link of connection between my spirit and
his.”
No recognition of this communication was announced, and the meeting
separated.
Those who recognise descriptions, should at the same time give their
names and addresses.
Mr. W. H. Preece recently called the attention of the Society of Arts to
the merits of the Harmonic Electric Telegraph invented by Mr. Cromwell
"Varley.
At the West-end of London, Spiritualism is making much more progress
in private than in public. The chief portion of its advance is not publicly
seen.
May 16, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
235
PRACTICAL LESSONS IN SPIRITUALISM *
BY BOtTISA. ANDREWS.
It is with much diffidence and self-distrust that I have
complied with the request made me to come before you to¬
night, feeling, as I do, how little I have to offer worthy the
attention of those who, like yourselves, have devoted them¬
selves for years to the investigation and study of all that
appertains to Spiritualism. Many among you have had
opportunities for experimental research, and happy communion
with spirit friends, in the home circle, which have been denied
to me. I have had to depend upon public mediums, and it
is, perhaps, because I feel very deeply my personal indebted¬
ness to them that I am always ready to speak a word in their
defence. I am well aware that those who are so happy as to
have in their own families, or among familiar friends, the
material for forming private circles under the best conditions,
enjoy advantages not otherwise attainable.
But, on the other hand, since in everything the law of com¬
pensation works its beneficent results, something, I think, is
gained in going, as a stranger, from one powerful medium to
another, and receiving from them proofs of spirit presence
and tests of identity, the more striking and impressive as
coming from those unfamiliar with one’s past history, modes
of life and thought, habits, feelings, and wishes.
Much is corroborated in this way, and many little links get
joined together till they make at last a strong chain of evi¬
dence. Yarying forms of mediumship and different influences
throw unexpected gleams of light upon obscure points, and
our views in regard to all that relates to medial agency, and
the intercommunion of the worlds of spirit and matter, be¬
comes expanded and made clearer. At any rate, I must praise
the bridge which has carried me so satisfactorily over the
dark chasm of doubt and dread; and I cannot forget how
many thousands have had, like myself, to depend on the much
maligned agents of spirit power, and through them have
obtained not only knowledge, but comfort invaluable and
unutterable. This being so, we cannot afford to depreciate
these sorely tried workers, or make their wa,y harder by
treating them as if guilty, until they prove themselves, not
once or twice, but hundreds of times, to ever new claimants
for crucial tests, innocent of fraud. A medium can never
subject himself to tests conclusive enough, nor come unscathed
from the fiery furnace of sceptical investigation often enough |)
to give him any acknowledged claim to public confidence. This j (
is, in a measure, the result of causes beyond our control. A i)
medium habitually honest may7, under certain conditions, be |
led into wrong-doing. We are none of us proof against the !
temptations that most easily beset us, and sensitives are, i
more than others, susceptible to influences, good and bad; i
but for myself, if I believed that one possessing genuine power j j
had in some particular instance been led astray, I should j
either be silent on the subject, warning him privately, and jj
striving to influence him towards the right, or else I should j<
tell the whole plain truth, leaving others to judge of the facts n
as known to myself. Yague hints, such as we often hear in j
disparagement of noted mediums, may do great damage, but i
hardly can do good, either to them or to the public. All must j
judge for themselves, but I think more patient forbearance, j
more kindly consideration in our treatment of sensitives, and j
more deliberation in forming conclusions, for or against the j
genuineness of phenomena, would be productive of very bene- j ]
ficial results. Especially should we be cautious in deciding |
upon the exact amount of responsibility resting upon those j
through whom form manifestations are obtained. From what j j
I have seen and heard, I question whether any man living is j
able, in all cases, to draw correctly the boundary line between i |
what should be considered genuine in materializations and j (
what is in reality not that which (as we understand matters) i
it purports to be. I question whether either the medium or K
the spirit always knows how much of the bodily form is used n
in the incarnations. In some cases (as in that of Mrs. Comp- j (
ton, whose dress was nailed to the floor and who was other- jj
wise secured) the medium has disappeared from her seat while I (
some of the powerful male forms showed themselves, being jj
found again in her place with, all the fastenings intact when j (
the stance was over. In other cases mediums have been found, j j
as you know, to have lost in weight (though this in itself is | j
* A paper read before the National Association of Spiritualists,
hardly conclusive, since a table can be made, in an instant,
light or heavy by spirit action), and sometimes we are told of
loss of size—while in still other well-attested cases, the face
of the living woman has become transfigured, and has taken,
before the eyes of those looking directly at her, a totally
different appearance, sometimes becoming that of a man with
beard and whiskers. I have heard of a wonderful case of this
flesh transformation occurring with a well-known American
medium, the particulars of which I cannot now enter into
These things being so, how can we always and surely know
where fraud on either side the line begins? The spirit
acting upon matter, may go on drawing from the body of the
sensitive till he has drawn it all, and yet be quite innocent of
any deceptive intent—perhaps even unconscious that he has
not left enough behind to save the poor mortal, from whose
flesh and blood, as from a fountain, he obtains his supplies,
from cruel suspicion, and even, it may be, from the violent
assault of enraged sceptics.
I have seen the most astonishing extremes of scepticism
and of credulity among Spiritualists and so-called investiga¬
tors, and I do not know which most completely blinds the eyes
to the light of truth, though it shine like the sun at noon-day.
I have known would-be investigators sit with Slade in full
daylight—getting writing on a slate placed before them on
the table—being touched by visible and palpable hands, and
seeing objects moved about at a distance from the medium ;
and these wise men of Gotham, after leaving the seance room,
only shook their heads, with an air of critical dissatisfaction,
remarking that they had heard a suspicious gurgling in the
medium’s throat which they could not understand! On the
other hand, I once attended one of Gordon’s stances in New
York, which in the way of deception and credulity was not
only ludicrous, but disgusting and amazing. Ludicrous,
because the veil covering the fraud was so absurdly thin and
transparent—disgusting, because it teas fraud, premeditated
and audacious—and amazing because men and women who
appeared sane, and as intelligent as the average, looked upon
this ridiculous exhibition and actually believed it to be a
splendid and convincing spiritual manifestation ! If I should
have myself time, after telling you something of my own ex¬
periences (which I regard as object lessons more impressive
than any words), I should like to make a few remarks in
regard to what seems to me the vital importance of physical
mediumship, and the mistake those make who undervalue the
solid phenomenal fact-foundations of the spiritual temple.
Mental perceptions and impressions, the wonderful psychic
powers manifested in clairvoyance, should, it would seem, be
enough to convince men of their immortality ; and yet my
sympathies are with the doubting Thomases.
How many such there have been and are ! And for them,
as for myself, I welcome the “ proofs palpable,” as helping us
to realize and appreciate those mental evidences, which ought
perhaps to suffice, but do not, except with the few. Schopen¬
hauer, Martineau, Broussais, and many others, knew the
facts of somnambulism, and yet continued incredulous
as to the future life. It was not, I believe, till Elliotson
witnessed some of the physical phenomena that he woke from
his nightmare of unbelief and blessed the coming light,
Schopenhauer was himself clairvoyant, as he tells us, and yet
he lived and died an atheist and a Sadducee.
There seems to be a vague sort of idea that to despise the
senses and what they bring us, is spiritual and elevated. Are
words from the lips of a clairvoyant necessarily more
spiritual, farther removed from the physical plane, than those
from the lips of a disembodied spirit ? Does not the
simple fact of their being uttered by such lips
suggest more than the intellect can well grasp ? In
either case we receive these words through the sense of
hearing, or if we read of them as having been spoken,
through that of sight ? We cannot receive much in any
other way, while imprisoned in the earthly body. Those
who are not themselves mediums and clairvoyants, must de¬
pend on such eyes and ears as they have. He who lives on
the plane of the senses is a very poor sort of animal, but he
who fails to recognize in them the channels through which
has come all that he distinctly knows, not only of the world
about him, but of his own intellectual and spiritual nature,
is surely not a true philosopher.
Now, however, I will, before wearying you by dwelling
236
THE SPIRITUALIST.
$Iay 16, 1879.
upon thoughts and opinions of little value, perhaps, except
to myself, relate how first I became convinced of the
truths of Spiritualism, and what that conviction has done
for one bereaved and doubting heart. My record of stances
was always made at the time. I never trusted to memory :
and most conscientiously have I always, to the best of my
ability, stated the exact truth, without embellishment or ex¬
aggeration. The revelation I am about to make to you would
seem too personal were I addressing a public audience, but
with only Spiritualists before me, I feel that, as such, they
will receive with kindly sympathy such details as are neces¬
sary in an explanation of my awakening to the reality and
meaning of those marvellous facts which now seem almost too
familiar to excite our wonder.
Seven years and six months ago, I sat quietly employed
with some needlework in one of a suite of rooms which we
occupied in a hotel in the pretty rural town of Northampton,
Massachusetts. The day was bright, and outwardly, like any
other in our beautiful Autumn, when more, perhaps, than at
any other season the air seems full of peace and gladness.
And yet that day was destined to stand for ever alone and
awful in my memory, and to work, by one sudden and terrible
blow, a change in my inner life greater than I could then
have conceived of as possible. My younger son, a lad of
twelve, was with me, and, asking leave to go to the library,
across the street, for a book, he left me. After closing the
door, he opened it again, and spoke, smiling brightly, a few
words, which I will presently repeat to you. This merry
smile was the last I ever saw on that dear, familiar face ; the
words, so lightly spoken, the last I ever heard from those lips.
In less than fifteen minutes from that time the form that had
been so full of life lay senseless, and was moved only by the
last struggle of the departing spirit.
To those here who are mothers, I need not. speak of an
agony beyond all understanding, except through the sym¬
pathy of hearts that have loved and mourned. My little son
had always clung to me with passionate affection, and what
his loss was, coming as it did, with such a terrible shock, no
words can tell. I was crushed, bitter, rebellious. I felt that
he had been murdered by cruel carelessness, and that there
was nothing I could rely upon, or believe in, since such
things were permitted, and no Divine power stretched out a
hand to save. I sank into utter despondency, and could not
wish to live. I knew I still had duties to perform, but a
black pall covered everything and I could see nothing clearly
—could only feel that the light had gone out of my life for
ever. In this state of mind I was persuaded to go on to New
York, and seek, if haply I might find, in Spiritualism some
hope or consolation. I took a letter of introduction to the
venerable Dr. John Gray, known by name to all who are
familiar with the works of Robert Dale Owen, or with the
history of American Spiritualism. The kind old gentleman
received me with tender sympathy; and took me in his car¬
riage to the house of Charles Foster, the medium. After a
seance in which many startling evidences of spirit presence
and control were given, I sat talking with Dr. Gray in rela¬
tion to what had taken place, and turning again towards the
medium, asked, with that heart-craving so hard to satisfy,
“ Could you get from the spirit you say is present the last
words I ever heard him speak?—that, indeed, would be to me
a convincing test.” Mr. Foster feared this would not be
possible, and I continued my conversation with the Doctor,
when, glancing at the medium, I saw he looked pale, and
appeared as if listening to something. After a moment’s
silence he spoke, just in my little boy’s cheery, eager way,
saying, “Mother, if Robbie Day comes, please ask him to
wait, I won’t be gone five minutes.”
These were the words my son spoke when he looked in at
me from the open door, and which no one in New York had
ever heard.
Naturally I was overcome with surprise and emotion, and
Mr. Foster tried to soothe me,—but Dr. Gray, laying his
hand upon my shoulder, said, “ Let her weep. She will
never again shed such bitter tears as in the past.” How often
have I recalled those true prophetic words ! This was the
first lifting of the veil, and the light which streamed through
upon me then has never been lost (though sometimes obscured
by transient clouds of doubt), but has grown brighter and
more beautiful from that day to this. During this same
|| seance I asked Mr. Foster, “ Can my son tell you the cause of
I! his death ? ” The reply, coming instantly, “ He tells me he
11 was killed.” I then asked : “ Can he give you the name of
his elder brother ? ” Immediately the hand of the medium
wrote with wonderful rapidity, the words, “ Dear mother, as
|! a test to you that I am here, I say, give Launcelot my tools.”
11 “ Rut,” said Foster (who you know is not a reading man),
(| “ L.a.tj.n.c.e.l.o.t., is that really his brother’s name ? and do
) | you spell it with aw?” I only mention this to show that it
(| was the hand, but not the mind, of the medium that wrote.
\ I The allusion to the tools might have been a guess, but evi-
|! dently ignorant as he was of the name (not. at all common in
(I America) he could not have hit upon it by chance, audit was
/1 not easy to convince him that it was correctly written. I
| then requested to know if my son would give me the name of
the child he loved so much when here. “ He say's,” was the
reply, “ that he will write it on my hand,” and making a slight
exclamation, as one might from the sudden prick of a pin, the
11 medium held out his hand, closed, before me. At first I saw
11 nothing, but in a moment the name “Bertie” appeared plainly
)! written on the back of it in running hand, as if traced in
(| blood under the skin. It was the name I had asked for. Mr.
)\ Foster was an utter stranger to me and mine, and Dr. Gray
(: had avoided even a formal introduction.
) I It was a few days after this that I first sat with Slade,
fj having had other stances with Foster, and one, to which I
) j went with my dear friend Robert Dale Owen, with Mrs.
11 Underhill, the eldest of the Fox sisters, who had long ceased
11 to be a public medium. All Slade’s sittings were at that time
1| held either by day or gas light.
When I first knew him, between seven and eight years
ago, I do not believe any consideration or any bribe would
| have induced him to sit in the dark. He dreaded to be in a
I totally dark room, even when not giving a stance, lest some-
Ij thing should touch him. I have feared sometimes, when the
manifestations were in any way unusual, that he would go
into convulsions from fright and excitement, he being subject
| to nervous spasms very distressing to witness. Owassoo, his
| principal Indian control, used to get out of all patience with
| him, because he would (as he said1) “up jump and squeal ” just
) | at the wrong time.
(| At my first sitting, in the forenoon of a sunny day in Jan-
)i uary, 1872, I obtained slate writing—while holding the slate
ji myself—and got very sweet and natural communications.
> | Hands patted me in the full sunlight, touched my face, and
(| played with my watch-chain, taking the watch from its pocket
i and replacing it. At one of these early sittings, I asked if my
(| son could kiss my hand, as he so often used to do, and at once
> i felt warm lips pressed on the back of the hand which rested on
I my lap.
Once or twice, at my request, the imprint of teeth, which
gave me a little playful nip, was left quite red upon the flesh,
and, also, moisture from the tongue and lips, which I had felt
touching it.
1 i Hands of different sizes and forms—from Owassoo’s large,
, | strong and copper- coloured, to those of a little child, my baby
> | boy Ernest (as I was told), that played with my necktie-—were
(! held before me, sometimes uncovered, and sometimes under
Ithe very thin cambric of my handkerchief, so that I could
examine them carefully. Several times a hand was forced up
| my sleeve, showing plainly as it moved, grasping my arm,
although between my wrist and the table, near which I sat,
| nothing was visible. A cord tied about my waist was untied
si by fingers whose motions were visible underneath the cloth
of the jacket I wore. Tight double and treble knots which I
(| made in it were undone in the twinkling of an eye. There is
); nothing very new to you in this, but the fact of its occurring
| in broad daylight may make it worthy of notice. Once,
(| having desired that I might take some mark home with me,
|! as evidence that the hands were real, though I had said nothing
)i to any one of this wish, my arm, above the elbow, was
s I pinched black and blue, so that the bruises lasted for weeks.
! 1 thought how very much I wished it was Dr. Carpenter’s
(I arm!—that he had sat there, in my place, holding the hands
}| of the medium, and that materialized “prepossessions,” or
11 “cerebral hallucinations,” in the form of very muscular fingers,
h had made their mark on this gentleman’s scientific flesh. Of
) I course he would not have believed (except in some new theory of
his own); but I should like, all the same, to try upon scepticism
May 16, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
237
incarnate tlie effect of sucli pinches as made me cry aloud j)
for mercy. ; m : ; ,
At the first materializing stance which I ever attended, on I (
the evening of January 11th, 1872, Slade, after he entered the j j
room where our sittings were held, hung up a small black |
curtain, simply a yard-square piece of cambric, with an aper- |
ture cut in it a foot in diameter. This curtain he stretched j(
on a string, so that it hung down on the side of the table n
opposite me, then seated himself by me and we joined hands, j
I saw that evening several faces and heads—the most fully j
materialized and lifelike being that of my sister-in-law, Edith i <
Andrews, who passed away in my house when about twenty ] ]
years of age. The brown curling hair fell upon the neck, the |
head was crowned with a chaplet of white roses, and the rj
drapery about the bust, arms, and shoulders was as if made
of a silvery-white gossamer inwoven with glittering threads
of gold. I feel well assured that this drapery was never j
made in a material loom. The hands of this young girl were,
in earth-life, remarkable for their beauty, and those delicately
moulded hands were shown—held up, at my request, against i
the dark curtain—in more than mortal loveliness of tint |
and outline.
I not only saw the sweet mobile face several times, but the
head was turned in various directions, once with the back to
me, and the medium took some of the soft dark ringlets in his i
hand.
On two occasions the lips moved and distinctly articulated
several words, although, from the wavering motion of the head’
it seemed to be floating in the air—and I do not think the
form was materialized below the waist. Once this spirit sent j
a spoken message to one of her brothers ; and again she spoke,
leaning towards the medium, and saying—“ Put a paper on
her lap and I will write.” This was done—a sheet of note-
paper being laid upon a slate held upon my knee.
In a moment or two, a fair, slight hand came from beneath
the table, holding a long pencil which Slade had just told me
he saw the spirit taking up from a desk at the far end of the
room, and wrote under my eyes, the delicate white fingers
tracing the words as I watched them.
The hand disappeared as it reached the frame of the slate,
by passing beneath the table, and the instant afterwards we
saw it, still holding the pencil, at the aperture of the curtain—
then, as the medium said he saw the form going towards the
desk, the pencil was thrown from that direction (opposite the
medium) and fell upon the table close to my hand.
On another evening this same lovely hand came up close to
me with a star of intensely brilliant light glittering upon its
palm ; as it receded nothing could be seen in the distance but
this dazzling light, which was quite steady and indescribably [j
pure and clear.
In after stances I saw, just across a small table (once peep¬
ing, with a smile, over the edge of it), the glad blue eyes and
happy face of my dear boy, with the lock of hair, that always
would fall over his forehead when he played, hanging down
nearly to the eyebrows.
His face, however, I never saw so fully incarnated as that
of his aunt Edith. Although the form of the head and face,
and even the rosy tint upon the cheeks, were quite visible,
the light, instead of falling upon it from without, seemed
partly to emanate from it, which rendered the outlines less
distinct and more etherial. Many times I have seen the
pattern of the wallpaper and other objects through these faces
and forms, for, with Slade, there seemed less corporeal sub¬
stance in them than I have seen with some other mediums.
They were, to me, rather more than less beautiful on this
account, for one so fully realised, in looking at them, that
they were not mortal flesh and blood. With Mrs. Mary
Andrews, at Moravia, the faces were so exactly like those of
living men and women that it was difficult to believe them
to be spirits clothed only for a few minutes in a visible body.
But that they were genuine I was entirely convinced. We
have no medium in America more thoroughly genuine and
in every way honest than she is, although quite uneducated,
and seeming to feel little interest in Spiritualism. The com¬
plete incarnation of the faces and forms in her case was the
more remarkable because she was quite wide awake and in
her normal condition—never entranced during a stance, nor at
any other time. She used to laugh and talk with us from
the cabinet, describing those forms which could not succeed in
| coming forward into the light. Remarkable tests of identity
were frequently given at her stances. In recalling my
many stances with Henry Slade, I really do not know what
to describe which will be most likely to interest you—so
much must be omitted, and it is difficult to make selections from
| others. I stayed for weeks together, at different times, with
| this wonderful medium, making as free use of the stance room
] as if it had been in my own house. As to psychography : I
have obtained it in screwed-up slates, on paper, on my pocket-
i handkerchief, and on the very high ceiling of the stance room ;
11 but after having seen the detached hand actually holding the
>| pencil and forming the words, I could hardly, for myself,
! I desire more in this way.
Dr. Slade, who understands only English, has obtained
j direct writing in French, Spanish, German, Dutch, Latin,
) | Greek, Russian, and Chinese. One singular thing I noticed
( i which may possibly be new to you.
) j I observed once on a slate, which had been written upon,
(| while on the top of the table, some words erased, as if with
)\ damp fingers. I afterwards requested the spirit to rub out
|| portions of a written sentence, and several times this was
done. The marks of wet fingers were distinctly visible, the
moisture left by them remaining for some minutes. Several
| times I have noticed a word erased in this way, and another
written in place of it. Also, sometimes, when I have attempted
)i to take up a slate just filled with writing, I have found it
|| difficult to lift. It did not give the impression of being
| heavy ; the attraction seeming rather magnetic than that of
gravitation—like the resistant, adhesive force which is felt in
pulling the armature from a powerful magnet. In this con¬
nection (though by no means imagining that the one fact
elucidates the other) I might mention that scissors, knife, or
11 needles become magnetic when carried for a short time on Dr.
) Slade’s person.
(| I believe the singular phenomenon of the explosion of
(| slates, held for writing, was witnessed by several in England.
11 Twice I have seen it—once when I held a corner of one in
) | my own hand. Most of it was reduced to a coarse powder,
(i One day, not long before Slade left America, a gentleman
Yi showed me a large hinged slate he had just bought, hoping
to get it written upon to send away to some friends. A few
minutes afterwards he came down from the stance room with
the frame of it and some fragments in his hand, the rest
having been powdered by the explosion. He went out
directly, bought another, tied it up firmly, and sat down upon
it—when, fortunately, it did not explode, but was filled with
writing in that position. At an evening stance, with the gas
partially turned down, and in a room where I had been for
some time, flowers, fresh and dewy, roses, violets, and carnations
fell from above upon the table, filling the air with their power¬
ful fragrance, which could not have been disguised had they
been present when the sitting began. At my request, a
warm, slight hand, quite wet from contact with the moist
flowers, arranged them, one by one, in my hair, patting my
face with the soft, damp fingers. I have had garments
brought me through closed and locked doors, and once a letter
which I had left, tied up in a bundle in a locked trunk in my
bedroom, up two flights of stairs. As I had money in this trunk,
I had hidden the key away where I thought it would be safe.
After the sitting, Slade, taking the letter up in his hand, asked
“ Would you like me to tell you what is in it P” It was one
among a number which I had received from a gentleman in
England on the subject of Spiritualism, and as it contained
nothing confidential, I told him he might if he could.
Holding the envelope enclosing the letter up to his forehead,
he gave me, sentence by sentence, all the contents, scarcely
missing a word.
In a light room books have come sailing through the air
to me, and once a large, heavy dictionary fell on the medium’s
hand (having been brought from a desk some distance from
us), making quite a sore bruise. At an evening sitting, when
Slade had turned the gas up high, because he said he wouldn’t
have violent manifestations, the walnut table at which we
sat rose up into the air, turned upside down and floated over
our heads, afterwards righting itself and descending again,
slowly and quietly, to its former place.
One of Owassoo’s favourite tricks, when his medium first
consented to sit in the dark for spirit voices and other mani¬
festations best obtained in that way, was firing off what he
238
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 16, 1879.
called his “ pistolin ” (a spiritually improvised firearm), much H
to Slade’s annoyance—for the explosion and flash coming so L
unexpectedly, and sometimes so close to us, were really r
startling to nerves less sensitive than his. A manifestation j i
which the spirits called “The burning bush,” and which I |j
witnessed while staying with the medium in 1873, was very j<
remarkable. The gas was partially turned down, and we. !J
had been watching various articles as they were moved about i
by invisible hands, when, suddenly, there streamed up from | (
the floor, towards the corner of the room nearly opposite j
me, what appeared like an outburst of actual fire, illuminating j (
the walls near which it seemed to burn. The quivering, 1/
leaping flame was accompanied by a slight crackling sound, l(
and thick vaporous clouds rose from it, rolling up in volumes j)
to the ceiling. It lasted some minutes, and the medium was I)
much agitated, but I quieted him at last, and the seance went K
on. W e examined the spot where the fire had seemed to be, i)
but there was no trace of anything upon the carpeted floor. j \
I was afterwards shown flaming hands, of different sexes, h
from which a stifling vapour poured so thickly as nearly to
conceal from me my left arm when the fiery hand came j)
between it and my face. ! t
The spirit fingers which seemed on fire felt cool as they j>
touched my cheek and lips. I was told that this manifesta- j(
tion was similar, in its nature, to that of the burning bush, j)
On an evening seance in the spring of 1874, my sister being k
with me—both of us staying in the house with Dr. Slade—we I;
heard a loud rumbling, as of mimic thunder, such as might u
be made upon a drum or tambourine. j >
It came from the table, which thrilled and trembled under (
our hands, and after lasting several minutes, was accompanied ])
by vivid flashes, as of lightning, in the air. Presently the j (
lightning seemed to strike the opposite wall with a brilliant !)
flash and loud explosion. Three times these thunder-claps j<
and lightning-flashes were repeated, greatly to the medium’s I)
horror and consternation, when a sudden shower came on, K
the watery drops dashing into our faces and trickling down |)
from my hair, wetting very thoroughly the top of the table, j (
There had been no water in the room when the sitting began, i)
Liquid perfume also has been poured over us and the table in ! (
quantities. I once took on to New York with me, when I j j
went there for sittings with Slade, a small musical box which j (
had belonged to my son Harold ; one of those little childish j)
toys which are made to play by turning a crank. This little I)
box was broken, the crank, or handle had been lost, many of j)
the pins were gone, and no sound could be produced from it j \
without taking it to pieces and moving the barrel with the j /
fingers, when, of course, it was mere sound not music. In js
several seances this box played, while floating in the air, and j)
also while I held it in my hand, feeling every vibration dis- i(
tinctly. There was, at intervals, a sound as of winding-up, j)
sometimes taking place while the box rested on my hand or ! \
my head, so that the jar naturally produced by such an ope- i)
ration was plainly felt. I have held it tightly clasped, from I (
the time that I heard and felt the music proceeding from it, i /
until the sitting was over, so that there could be no doubt as j (
to its identity. Of course I do not believe that this broken |)
box, the mechanism of which did not admit of its being wound j \
up, was actually and mechanically made, by winding, to play j (
airs which it was not constructed to play. I have had an j)
instrument of this kind (if I may so speak of a spiritual crea- j)
tion) much larger and heavier than this, though invisible, V
placed upon my lap and upon the table before me, the music I (
from which was as loud and clear as that obtainable from any i >
large-sized music-box manufactured of wood and metal. | (
This spirit-made box, when set down upon the table, gave n
out a louder, fuller sound, just as a material instrument |(
would if placed on anything which acted as a sounding-board, j /
and seemed, like a material machine, to require winding. ||
And yet, no such instrument—that is, none made by mortal |)
hands—was in the room or the house. While its weight and j
its vibrations were plainly felt, as it rested on my knees, I j j
passed my hand over the place where it seemed to be without j
perceiving anything. When placed upon the table the |
vibrations through the substance of the wood were distinctly j<
perceptible to the touch. j j
The little box of which I have spoken, before it began to I (
play, trembled like a live thing, hither and thither, about )
the table, creeping along from side to side, till at last it 1
ventured too near the edge and fell off, but was speedily
restored to me by a spirit hand. Also, I have seen a small
silver bell move about in the same way, coming towards me
or receding, at request, and also dancing in a very lively,
fantastical manner, tipping comically from side to side, till,
at last, getting very much excited, it hopped up and jumped
like an acrobat, through the aperture of the curtain hung for
materialization. Afterwards, we saw a small white hand
holding and ringing it. Permit me here to pause in my
record of experiences, and call your attention to the singular
fact, that what we call spirit, when acting upon matter,
seems to manifest properties or attributes, which, to our
ignorance, appear contradictory. For instance, the fingers
rubbing out words written on the under side of the slate
must have passed through matter to reach the writing, and
yet, had not the material on which the words were written
offered resistance to the spirit touch, those words could not
have been rubbed out by it. Again, when I felt the weight
of the invisible music-box on my lap, and yet could perceive
nothing there, when passing my hand over the spot where it
seemed to be. How could this thing, whatever it whs, have
substance enough to be subject to the law of gravitation, or,
in other words, possess weight, and yet not be perceptible.to
the touch P Why should some of the nerves and muscles of
my body feel it as weight and others not perceive it as
tangible ?
Once, when Dr. Slade spoke of seeing the spirit form of
my little son seating himself on a chair close by my side, I
saw a woollen table cover, loosely thrown together in a heap,
upon that chair, pressed down as by the weight of one sitting
on it. At my request, the invisible spirit several times
arose and re-seated himself. Whenever he got up the table-
cover moved as if relieved of a pressure, and when the
medium spoke of seeing him sit down, the cloth was again
pressed together, as by a superincumbent weight. I have
also seen a shadow cast by a spirit form invisible to me. Of
course, you have all seen more or less of such things. I
fully realize that I can tell you nothing more wonderful
than your own experiences have made familiar to you: but
sometimes, I think, we fail to appreciate how much these
things indicate, and how limited and incorrect they prove
our generally received ideas on the subject of matter to be;
showing that we shall have to revise and correct our im¬
pressions, or at least to hold them in abeyance, before we
can begin really to understand what we call spiritual phe¬
nomena.
I do not wonder that Zollner should have fled in scientific
despair to the fourth dimension to seek for the key to these
mysteries, though it does seem strange that he had what he
believes to be this key hidden away beforehand among his
theoretical treasures. I suppose those familiar with the
higher mathematics may understand what this fourth di¬
mension signifies, when brought down into the “concrete
practical ” ; but I cannot avail myself of light from such a
source, because I do not in the least comprehend the theory,
nor what powers fourth dimensional beings would be likely
to possess in the way of knot-tying and other queer entangle¬
ments of matter; and in this ignorance I am not, I imagine,
without very respectable companionship. So far, indeed,,
theories of fourth dimensional beings, of elementals and
elementaries, of psychic force, which (being scientific)
disdains the name of spirit, and all others of which I know
anything, leave us, for any real comprehension of the subject,
very much where we were before. I do not say that all
these theories may not be more or less true. “ Psychic force ”
is but a name, indefinite and non-committal. I have no
prejudice in favour of these dimensions, nor do I object to
elementals and elementaries, only that I find myself for¬
getting which is which, and a blunder might give offence,
which I should not like to do, as I have heard that they are
(one or both) very dangerous to “ poor American Spiritual¬
ists.” The learned lady who gave us this timely warning
certainly knew all about it, for she assured me herself that
she had been on the most intimate terms with one of these
soulless gentlemen for more than sixteen years! It seems
to me that what, as truth-seekers, we should avoid, is, on
the one hand, a too free indulgence in theory, and, on the
other, such extreme caution as hinders some from giving a
naipe to anything, lest it should, by-and-by, prove to be
May 16, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
239
something else. Some psychologists, as I noticed in
listening to an address lately delivered by the learned
President of the Psychological Society, do not venture
to call a spade a spade, lest future scientific investigation
should prove it to be a shovel. We may, of course, if we so
desire, doubt all things. Mr. Huxley tells us that “ all we
know about matter is that it is the hypothetical substance of
physical phenomena, the assumption of the existence of which
is as pure a piece of metaphysical speculation as that of the
substance of mind,” “ The materialist, the idealist, and even
the theologian,” he says, “ may be right, but each has to make
an assumption which is entirely beyond proof.” Your great
poet asks, “ Do we not live in dreams ? ” and your great
scientist answers very decidedly in the affirmative. So,
between dream and dream—the dream of the Spiritualist and
the dream of the Materialist—we are free to choose. Mr.
Huxley bids us “ make a desert of the unknowable, and the
divine Astrsea of philosophic peace will commence her blessed
reign.”. If Mr. Huxley likes to live in a desert with his
divine Astrma, and enjoy what he calls “philosophic peace”—
a peace that certainly passeth understanding (seeming to un¬
scientific minds very like that vacuum which in old times
nature was said to abhor)—no one should object: but tastes
differ, and since “ dreams are true while they last,” I prefer
to plunge boldly into that mysterious ocean on whose shores
we abide, and bring up from its hidden depths my pearl of
faith.
If we Spiritualists are to be scorned for our credulity, Mr.
Huxley is, on the other hand, hardly consistent as a sceptic ;
for would he not, if he were, sit down upon a mathematical
point of knowledge in his desert (the one fact of which he is
sure that we can know nothing), and stay there safely, since
on all sides the quicksands of doubt and “ theoretical assump¬
tion ” are ready to engulf alike idealists, theologians, and
materialists? One great dream swallowing up the smaller ones,
and leaving behind neither matter nor spirit, soul nor body !
The god Doubt seems to be the only true God to minds like
his, and in Him all things perish and lose their being.
Seriously, is it not quite essential to progress, intellectual
and moral, that we should believe, simply and earnestly, in
a few things, and accept as explanations of the phenomena
which are always (in and out of Spiritualism) presenting
themselves for solution, what most commends itself to our
reason and judgment as accounting for them satisfactorily ?
Always being ready to change, or modify, our opinions as
more light comes, and never allowing ourselves to become so
fixed in our ideas and conclusions as to be enslaved by that
“ foolish consistency ” which Emerson calls “ the hobgoblin
of little minds.”
I will now describe a stance which was very striking to those
who witnessed it, though I know how impossible it is to give
you any adequate idea of its thrilling effect. On the evening
of April 19th, 1874, I persuaded Dr. Slade to let me hang up
a quilt, as a curtain, and see what we could get. Ho one was
present but the medium, my sister, and myself. We began
by sitting all three together at the table, the quilt which we
had arranged being behind Slade; but he became so nervously
excited that Owassoo took possession of him and laid him, in
deep trance, on a sofa behind the curtain.
We soon heard much rustling, as of drapery, and also
voices, as of persons talking together in whispers, with an
occasional moan from the medium, and his regular breathing.
In a few minutes a person came 1‘rom behind the curtain and
stood at my back. I heard the rustle as he moved, and his
whispered words, but could see him only as a whitish cloud.
He whispered—“ It is Harold. I am come to you, mother ! I
am near you always. Give my love to brother Launce. Do not
worry about him. We are watching over him, and he is safe!'
Some other words were spoken which I failed to hear dis¬
tinctly. Again whispering was heard, as of several voices
speaking fast, though so low that we could not distinguish
the words. At intervals the medium sighed and moved un¬
easily, as one in troubled sleep. A moment’s silence, and
then a tall form, clothed in flowing white raiment, with a
hood drawn so far forward as to shade the face, while his
robes seemed, by the rustling sound, to trail as he moved,
came up behind me. As I turned my head I could see the
whole tall form. He spoke his name, “ Daniel," and made a
slight shaking sound as of a subdued cough. It was a young
!j man in whom we were (are) much interested, who had fought
throughout our war and had come home only to die, soon
after, of hemorrhage from the lungs and rapid consumption.
He said several things which I did not hear plainly, several
(j times repeating the name, “ Launcelot," and something
)\ about “ excitement," but saying again, as Harold had done,
sj “ He is safe—we are watching over him." This spirit placed
) | his hand on my neck and shoulder ; then, as my sister and I
\ | sat close side by side, he took us both in his arms, pressing us
)j together in a strong and loving embrace. He then placed a
I j hand on each side of my face, and leaned forward, so that his
) | heavy drapery fell over my head and shoulders. Again and
(i again his firm hands were caressingly laid upon my neck and
H arms—then he walked, step by step, past our backs and to
(i the left of where we sat, and passed slowly all round the table
/1 till he came to my right side, where a chair stood, and on this
) | chair he sat down, remaining seated, motionless and silent,
(| for some minutes. Then he arose slowly, and stepping with
I' | one foot upon the chair, placed the other on the table, and
standing erect upon it, directly before us, with his head close
I to the gasalier, where the light was burning low, he again
| remained still for some time. I asked him to look
] towards me, which he did, the face appearing dusky,
i/| and either because of imperfect materialization, or because
of the shadow cast by the overhanging hood, I could
i not distinguish the features. He stood upon the extended leaf
| of the table, as no mortal form, not even that of a little child,
could have done without tipping it over—and perhaps it
| was to satisfy us that it was not a mortal form that he placed
himself there. After standing for awhile, he glanced down¬
wards, as if to see that the chair was properly placed then
| stepped upon it, and from thence to the floor. Just as he
; | descended, we heard a sound like an electric snap, and with
(I a loud, nerve-thrilling rustle, the tall, solid-seeming form col-
) I lapsed and became in an instant invisible. This sitting took
s| place on Sunday evening, and we knew of no especial reason
) I why the spirits should speak of “ excitement,” in connection
S i with my son Launcelot, and should reiterate the assurance
ij that they were watching over him, and that he was “ safe.”
The next morning the papers told us of a terrible accident
| which had happened in the city of Newark, New Jersey, the
evening before, about an hour before the sitting took place.
A horse-car on one of the street railways, in descending a
!j hill, was, from the giving way of a brake, precipitated down¬
wards with fearful velocity, and before reaching the foot of
| the declivity, meeting with some obstruction, was turned com-
| pletely over, coming down upon its roof, which was crushed
>1 in. The passengers were most of them injured, some cut
!| with broken glass, and others having fragments of splintered
| wood driven through their flesh—only two or three escaped
1 unhurt, and one of these was my son.
I have spoken several times of Owassoo, Slade’s Indian
i control, and wish to say that, although I began by feeling
sceptical as to his individual entity, I became well convinced
of it long ago.
He was very fond of getting hold of a watch, and Slade
| used sometimes to be greatly puzzled to know what could be
the matter with his.
One day Owasso, told me, in confidence, that while his
medium was asleep, he was showing the inside of his watch
to another Indian, and just touched a little thing, when it went
) | “ whizz! ” and stopped. He was very sorry, he said, and
J | wouldn’t do so any more, but begged me not to tell the me-
) | dium, as he would be very angry.
Of course I gave my word, and kept it. A few days after-
/ j wards, he (Owassoo) was complaining to a lady, an acquain-
I! tance of mine (Mrs. Lane, of New York) that he hadn’t any
| watch to do as he pleased with, and she told him that if he
chose he might come to her house and do as he liked with
her cuckoo clock, which he greatly admired. He expressed
himself much delighted, saying he should certainly go. Soon
after Mrs. Lane returned home, her clock began to strike,
and struck a hundred, and from that time it could not be
made to go properly. One evening, while in the house with
Slade, I was suffering from severe headache, and he, influ¬
enced by Owassoo, made passes for my relief. He was going
that night with some friends to the theatre, and as he was
| talking with me by my bedside before leaving, there came
loud raps on the headboard.
240
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 16, 1879.
I asked if Owassoo, too, were going to leave me; he said,
“ Yes,” but that he would come back and see me.
Between ten and eleven o’clock my bed was violently
shaken. I said nothing about it to any one, but Owassoo,
when he next controlled Slade, said, “ Squaw, you feel me
shake your bunk last night ? ” One night while visiting my
son, then a Yale student in Hew Haven, my sister living in
Hew York with Slade, I had a bad attack of nervous head¬
ache, and suffering great pain, said aloud—“ 0 Owassoo ! O
dear spirits ! do help me ! ” In the night, I was awakened
by a hand repeatedly touching the back of my neck, and ris¬
ing on my elbow, leaned over the edge of the bed to see if
anything were visible. The next evening I received a letter
from my sister telling me that Owassoo had said to her—
“ Squaw Andrews headache bad last night. She say, * 0
Owassoo! 0 dear spirits! help me! ’ and me there, me
and Harold boy, helping her all the time ! and in the night
me touch her, and she put her head up and look—look—but
she wouldn’t see anything at all.”
Owassoo was a Mexican Indian, and speaks still a mixed
dialect of Indian and Spanish. When speaking indepen¬
dently, his voice and manner are just the same as when using
the organism of the medium. A Spanish lady who had several
sittings with Slade in Hew York, could understand most that
he (Owassoo) said, so many of the words being Spanish. At
one time Hr. Slade began to walk in his sleep, and Owassoo
told Mr. Simmons he must be broken of the habit at once,
and that he (Mr. Simmons) must give him a whipping when¬
ever he attempted to get up in his sleep. This Mr. Simmons
said he should hardly like to do, when the Indian declared
that he himself would administer the salutary castigation.
Some nights afterwards, Mr. Simmons was awakened by
Slade's getting out of bed, and speaking to him, found that
he was asleep. In an instant a slipper came flying through
the air and began vigorously spanking the offender'—after
which there was no more sleep-walking. In view of all this
and much more of the same kind, I have felt myself con¬
strained to accept Owassoo’s personality. If, however, more
scientific minds find “ psychic force," or “unconscious cerebra¬
tion," or “ an epidemic delusion,” more satisfactory as a theory
and more plausible as an explanation of that which inflicted
personal chastisement for remedial purposes, and even, when
dental aid was required, drew a tooth for the medium, I have
nothing to say.
(To be continued.)
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly oilt,
“RIFTS IH THE YEIL.”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIH BROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHIHGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
A CHEAP EDITION
of this refined work has just been published.
Price Three Shillings and Sixpence, post free.
This edition is one of the cheapest and most elegant works ever published
in connection with Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Will be Published in a few Days,
Cloth, Crown 8vo, Red Edges, Price Five Shillings and Sixpence. Post Free
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
The Book is full of evidence of Spirit-Identity.
The Superfine Edition, bound in half calf, Eight Shillings and Sixpence.
- The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Just Published,
SPIRIT-IDEHTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon)."
Cloth 8vo, red edges, price 5s. post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
Now ready, the Second and Concluding Volume of the
MECHAHISM OF MAH:
LIFE, MIND, SOUL.
A POPULAR INTRODUCTION TO MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY.
By EDWARD W. COX, S.L.,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
(I Vol, II. Treating of the Mechanism in Action, Price 12s. 6d.
) i Vol. I. may be had, price 10s. 6d.; the work complete, 22s. fid.
I CONTENTS:
j| Part II.—THE MECHANISM IN ACTION.
IBook I.—The Normal Action ofthe Mechanism of Man.—Chapter 1. Intro¬
ductory ; 2. The Action of the Material Mechanism in Health; 3. Of Un-
i conscious Cerebration ; 4. Of Mental Sympathy and Communion ; 5. Body,
i Mind, and Soul in Health.
i Bookll.—The Abnormal Action of the Mechanism.—Chapter 1. Introduction
—The Psychology of the Future ; 2. How to be Pursued; 3. Objections and
! Objectors; 4. Precautions in Research ; 5. Prepossession and Dominant Idea ;
I 6. How we Know; 7. Scientific Evidence; 8. The Plan Proposed.
\ \ Book III.—Of Sleep and Dream.—Chapter 1. What Sleep Is; 2. The
(j Physiology of Sleep ; 3. The Mental Condition of Sleep ; 4. The Seat of
\\ Sleep; 5. Of Dream; 6. The Material Mechanism of Dream; 7. ThePsycho-
) j logy of Dream; 8. The Phenomena of Dream ; 9. The Philosophy of Dream ;
! 10. Conclusions.
)! Book IV. —The Phenomena of Delirium and Insanity.—Chapter 1. Delirium;
/ i 2. Insanity.
(I Book V. The Phenomena of Somnambulism.—Chapter 1. Introduction ; 2.
(i Somnambulism ; 3. Natural Somnambulism ; 4. Artificial Somnambulism ;
(: 5. ThePhencmena of Artificial Somnambulism ; 6. The Physiology of Somnam-
\ | bulism ; 7. The Psychology of Somnambulism.
)i Book VI.—Supersensuous Perception.—Introduction; Chapter 1. The
(| Phenomena of Supersensuous Perception ; 2. The Physiology and Psychology
I of Supersensuous Perception.
Book VII.—Trance.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. The Phenomena of Trance;
2. The Physiology and Psychology of Trance.
| Book VIII.—Psychism. — Introduction; Chapter 1. Objections and
| Objectors; 2. The Witnesses; 3. Psychic Force; 4. The Methods of Inves¬
tigation ; 5. The Phenomena of Psychism ; 6. The Psychic ; 7. The Physio-
) | logy of Psychic Force; 8. The Directing Intelligence; 9. Phenomena of
)I Psychism; 10. More Phenomena of Psychism; 11. Other Phenomena of
/j Psychism; 12. Communicated Phenomena; 13. The Physiology and Psy-
(I chology of Psychism.
(| Book IX.—The Argument.—Chapter 1. The Summing up; 2. Conclusions.
! LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.
jj Just Published.
c i Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red edges.
A CLERGYMAH OH SPIRITUALISM.
/1 Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spirit-
(j ualism, and setting forth his experience.
) | With a dedication to
| The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
) I by
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
)| . .
)! Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
| A FORECAST OF THE RELIGIOH OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions on Religious
) i Philosophy.
I By W. W. CLARK.
51 Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : Its Place
ij and Function — Religion and Dogma — Psychism and Spiritualism — The
Philosophy of Inspiration and Revelation—Christianity: Its Place and Human
Elements.
London ; Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
^ I • Will be published in a Few Days.
(Price 2s. fid., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges,
MESMERISM, WITH HIHTS FOR BEGIHHERS.
By Captain John James
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an author who has had thirty years’ experience in
Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
j): Price Two Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Red Edges.
| j SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
j)j This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
!) i observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ-
|) | ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
i( j “ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
May 16, 1879,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHO¬
LOGY, MESMERISM, ANTHROPO¬
LOGY, AND BIOLOGY.
Representing'the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has
been rented on the premises of the National Association of
Spiritualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist News¬
paper and publishing business are not in any way connected
with each other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crooks, F.R.S. The best work
ever published to scientifically demonstrate the reality
of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to
reveal to him by vision events connected with the early
history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus
saw the Mastodon and other extinct animals as if living
and moving before them; they likewise saw the scenes
by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions
of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation
of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engrav¬
ings, drawn by the sensitives as the visions passed
before their eyes. The substance of a review of this
book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there
is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants
who would not cheat him. The question as to the
reliability of the narratives therefore narrows itself down
to the question of the reliability of clairvoyance, which,
when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate
results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary
communiration should be established, it will be by
means of clairvoyance or some other of the latent and
little understood spiritual powers in man. Three vols.
24s. ; or 8s. per single volume.
WORKS BTC ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . 7
The Teacher. „ II.. ,, . .7
The Seer. „ III. „ 7
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, . . 7
The Thinker. ,, V. ,, . . 7
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . .7
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology . . 6
Answers to Ever-recurrring Questions from the People. 7
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . 2
Death and the After-Life . , . ,3
History and Philosophy of Evil , . .3
Harbinger of Health . , . . .7
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . .3
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . . 7
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . 2
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .3
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . 7
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .6
The Inner Life: or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . 7
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves. . 7
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . 6
Tale of a Physician; or Seeds and Fruits of Crime . 5
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .2
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .3
Morning Lectures . . . . .7
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
0
6
0
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
0
0
0
0
0
6
0
6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS.
Oriental Religion (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little
book, recommended by Thb Spiritualist news¬
paper . . . . . . ,26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing
interesting particulars and legends relating to
Buddhism . . . . . .14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . , . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale
Owen . . . . . . .76
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the
Zulus, by the Rev Henry Gallaway, M.D. In six
parts . . . . . . • 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into
English, with Preliminary Essays and Explana¬
tory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and S'perstitions
interpreted by Comparative Mythology, by John
Fiske, M.A 10 6
Awas-I-Hind: or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an
Indian Officer . . . . ..60
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into
English from the Chinese Classes, by James Legge,
D.D., LL.D 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged)
Explanation of the Mysteries of Modem Spirtual-
ism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital
Photogiaphy, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anros-
thesia, and Nervous Congestions, by Robert H.
Collyer, M.D. . . . . . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P.
Brown, Secretary of the Legation of the United
States of America at Constantinople . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia,
North Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin
Thorpe. La three vols. . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahom-
med. Translated into English immediately from
the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
Price Five Shillings. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” oit
PSYOHOGRAPHY.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
SYNOPSIS OP CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbg—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That attested by the senses :—
1. —Of Sight.—Evidenceof—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Bams, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. —Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr.
George King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls,
Baroness Von Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.
Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan, Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John
Wetherbee, H. B. Storer, C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee
with Watkins.
II. —From the Writing of Languages unknown to the
Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr.
Blackburn (Slade) ; Dutch, German, French, Spanish,
Portuguese (Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame
Blavatsky (Watkins); Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timay-
enia (Watkins); Chinese (Watkins).
III. —From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Prepa¬
ration of the Writing :—
Psychics and Conjurers Contrasted; Slade before the
Research Committee of the British National Association of
Spiritualists. Slade Tested by O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.;
Evidence of—Rev. J. Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J.
Seaman (Slade); Writing within Slates securely screwed
together—Evidence of Mrs. Andrews and J. Mould; Dicta¬
tion of Words at the Time of the Experiment—Evidence of—
A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P.,
Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld, M.D., Miss
Kisliugbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside a
Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of
Circumstances under which Experiments withF. W. Monck
were conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with
White Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the subject of the
Prosecution of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and
Professor Barnett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: its Mode of Operation—^Evidence
of C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Oculist’s Theory j The Spirit¬
ualist’s Theory.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Appa¬
ritions—The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox,
J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers, D. D. Hume, and
Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II. — Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—Emerson
—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immortality-.
Chapter HI.—Materialisation of Spirits at]Moravia, N.Y.,
and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—
Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship
of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Ex¬
periments—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. SepjeantCox—The Dialec¬
tical Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Sub¬
stances? — Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits —
Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Descartes—Spinoza
—Herbert Spencer—Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power
over Matter—Testimony of S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit — The Senses—
Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine
of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship — Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes,
Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dumphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmore,
Mrs, Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—-Conclusive Experi¬
ments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr.
C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seer-
ship — Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabauis—Coleridge
— Bacon — Luther—Calvin — Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—
Materialisation of Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in
God — Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine
Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—
The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Mora’ity — Sin
Punishes Itself — A Moral Creed — The Teachings of
Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences— The Mesmerists—Kemer— Objections
to Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe—
James Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inierences—
Concluding Reflections.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 6s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS m THE YEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritu¬
alists. A useful book to place in the public libraries, and to
present or send to those who are unacquainted with Spiritu¬
alism. It contains much about the 'religious aspect of
Spiritualism (given through the writing mediumship of
“ M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of the most refined and elegant
works ever printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through
the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
HI.—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
V. — The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens.
How the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist,
Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a Secret = A Majestic Mind
Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peck-
craft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon
(Miss Treheme) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-medium¬
ship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XL—Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von
Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia 0. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem Spiritual¬
ism.By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism. By
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kisling¬
bury from the German of Schiller.
XXVII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Chris¬
tianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat,
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXX LV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wortherington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVH.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritu¬
alism.
XXXVITT —Spiritual Manifestations among the Fasirs in
India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic )
by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Calder.
Xbl.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLHI.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation
to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; Post free for lid.; or six copies post free for
6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
Formerly issued Quarterly at 2s. 6d., is now published
Monthly at 6d., or 7s. per annum in advance, post free.
CONTENTS EOS MAY.
The Existing Breach between Modern Culture and the
Popular Faith j by John S. Farmer—An English Seeress of
the 17th Century; by J. W. F.—Spiritualism in Chili; by
Perigrinus—Some Spiritual Experiences of the Celebrated^
Italian Physician, Jerome Cardan; by A. M. H. W.—A Priori
Proof ofithe Probable Truth of Spiritualism; by Alex. Munro,
M.D.—'Progression by Antagonism; by M.—The Future of
Spiritualism; by Thomas Shorter.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Glasgow : Hay Nisbet and Co., 62, Ropework-lane.
P. O. Orders payable to Hay Nisbet and Co., as above.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forges.
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can
be given. 6 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
iv
'■ 1 ■ ——  ,• 11,^.-i ■■.■■a.r... M..——
- Just Published.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo,
•-richly gilt, ^ J \
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGIETINGS
BY WILMiM H. HABBISOIT.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton
and the Author.
Contents.
Pabt 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the News¬
paper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The
Castle.—S.TheLayofthePatMan.—6. The Poetry of Science.
—7. How Hadji A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter
from Hadji A1 Shacabac, a gentleman who visited London
on business connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at
Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St; Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gardener.—
11. “Fast Palls theEventide.”—12 Our Raven.—13. Material¬
istic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Photographer.—15. How
to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song oe
the Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirhel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old
Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-
Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “Underthe
Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence*
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Waibblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at
Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s Lament.—29.
The July Bug.—30. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in
review nearly a column long, says :—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming
a thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr.
Harrison, exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the
praise of all who are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent
laugh. Not that his muse restricts herself only to such
lighter utterances ; on the contrary, some of his poems
touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his
adventures amongst the ma gicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years.
. . . The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome
from which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The
Morning Post says of The Wobbly aw Ballads:—“No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes are
pitched in “ something like the same key as The Bon
Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably
successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally we find verse
cf great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure
poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour
should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings.
Written, printed, published and reviewed by William H.
Harrison (38, Great Russell-street). Both the verses and the
short essays are really funny, and in some of the latter there
is a vein of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun.
The Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather severe,
and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers ; but one of the most
laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he went to be
photographed.’ ’
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse. . . . Some of the
metrical legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be
sung at the meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or
fifteen years ago. Mr. Harrison, however, knows where to
plant his fun, and an accurate scientific mind like his can
make jokes with success. ... To all who wish to read a
pleasant volume magnificently got up as a gift-book, we
commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“ An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and otheis in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original,
and not at all ill-natured.”
' From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases
alluded to, and the imprint bears that the work is published
‘ a.d. 1877 (popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ;
a.m. 60,800,077 (Huxley).’ We believe that our readers
may derive a little amusement from a perusal of the
volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of
which are in verse and others in prose, some scientific,
others social, but all of them excellent. . . . The Lazy Lays
will make excellent and amusing reading for an occasional
spare half-hour. . . . They contain nothing unrefined or in
bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photo¬
graphed, is well done. . . . Bound in a cover of somewhat
powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar
in connection with photographic and other scientific
literature, has considerable facility of versification, and
deals, in pleasant and humorous mood, with many scientific
follies which are better laughed down than gravely dis¬
puted.”
From The Scotsman.
“ In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with
a due foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has
produced a most welcome book. . . . ‘ How Hadji A1
Shacabac was Photographed ’ will be sure to make every
reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be
expected that his subjects should bear some trace of this
peculiar idiosyncrasy, and indeed they are as free and easy
THE SPIRITUALIST.
as himself. . . . The poems are all characterised by smooth¬
ness and rhythmical swing. . . . The work is very elaborately
bound in cloth and gilt. . . . A gorgeous design upon the
cover. ... If our readers wish to encourage laziness they
have a most deserving object in a very clever and versatile,
member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
. “In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays,
Mr. William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in us
appearance and entertaining in its contents. . . . The author
is imbued with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all
• while offending none
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison*
a well-known contributor to the London and provincial
press, .and editor of The Spiritualist. . . . Many of the
humorous poems reminds us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The
Lay of the Photographer, The Lay of the Mace-bearers, and some
of The Wobblejaw Ballads would not have been unworthy of
Barham himself. Some of the shorter poems are exquisite,
and there pervade through the whole a religious sentiment
and poetie feeling which will make them acceptable to most
readers.”
From the Dodly Northern Whig (Belfast).
“The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji A1 Shacabac
was Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not
too extensive comic literature. The story is one of which
extracts would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely
humorous. ... Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-
book of an amusing nature, will find what they want in The
Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“ A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit. . . . The serious and sentimental verses belong to
the type of Mrs. Hemahs’s or L. E. L.’s produotions.”
From The Kensington News.
“ It is after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain,
or any of those merry souls who do quite as much good in
their day and generation as the authors of the most serious
works. The Lays are always original, sometimes serious,
generally comic, but never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty;
full of lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts,
abounding in tenderness and pathos; sparkling wdth wit
and humour; and one that may be read many times over. .
. . The get-up of the book is very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled ‘ The Wobblejaw Ballads,’
which appeared in the columns of this paper a short time
ago, and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B.
An irate member of the Town Council officially called the
attention of the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the
burlesques in the ‘ Wobblejaw Ballads,’ but the members
assembled laughed at the matter, and proceeded to the next
business. The Mayor said that he did not mind them.] . . .
“ It contains some very choice poems and prose essays, is
bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original design of no
ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7id.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The peobable effects of spieit-
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND
RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green,
These Essays won the First anb Second Gold Medals of
the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The /SptrifwaMsf Newspaper Branch Office, London.
HE TEAPPED MEDIUM; or, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Proto¬
plaster, in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It
is an excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men and disbelievers in Spiritualism generally. A review
of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet
displays real genius. Price 6d.; post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
T MES. PAEKEE’S, 3, BLOOMSBUEY
PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.,
a Philosophical and Developing Circle is being formed.
Those wishing to join will please send in their names. Terms
on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing into
clairvoyance; she is replying to sealed questions when con¬
ditions favour. Office hours from 12 to 6 o’clock.
PEIMITIVE CHEISTIANITY AND
MODEEN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena
for a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner
with the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London : Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIEITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size
of those of The Engineer newspaper), strongly and hand¬
somely bound in one, in half calf, red edges. They contain
records relating to Spiritualism in Great Britain from the end
of the year 1869 to the end of 1872, and ax tides and letters
by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F. Varley, The
Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of how
the Royal Society and British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr.
Crookes’s papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism,
as the Royal Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery
of lightning conductors. Very scarce. These two volumes
cannot be had separately. Price, carriage paid to any rail¬
way station in the United Kingdom, £1 10s.
London : W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
May 16, 1879.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By ihe late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
. . Chemistry at Edinburgh University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its
quality and size, the cheapest large work ever published in
this country in connection with Spiritualism.
'Just published, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENT'S.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism-
Sensations—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep
or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-
Walkers—Phenomena of the .Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over
the Subject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feel¬
ings in the Look and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthful¬
ness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep
Caused by Silent Will ; and at a Distance—Attraction
Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Com-
mands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER IIISympathy—Community of Sensations;
of Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhi¬
bitions of Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the By¬
standers—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medica
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Anti¬
pathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision,
without the Eyes—Vision of Near Object: through Opaque
Bodies ; at a Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in
Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.,
Predicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of
the Seer—Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting
Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—
Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of
Speech and of Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—
Transference of Senses and of Fain.
CHAPTER VI :—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-
Psychology and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Pheno¬
mena of Suggestions in the Conscious or Waking State—
Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised
by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The
Author’s Experience—Importance of Peraeveranoe—The
Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII :—Trance, Natural and Accidental;
Mesmeric—Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col.
Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not all Impostors—
Luminous Emanations — Extasis often Predicted — M.
Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VHI:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phre¬
nology—Effects of Teaching the Head in the Sleep—Variety
in the Phenomena—Suggestions—Sympathy—There are
Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do not
Act—'Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible
of Mesmerism—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—
Sympathy of Animals—Snail Telegraph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the
Human Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is
Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the
Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylio
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—
Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—
Physiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insanity,
Magic, Divination,' Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traceu to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight
is Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena
Attempted or Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally
Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the Medium of
Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of
the Subject—Effects of Odyle— Somnambulisn—Suggestion—
Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—Odyhc Eman¬
ations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc..
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid
Perception of the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of
Science—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints
—Conditions of Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure
—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious
or Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an
Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and With¬
out Suggestion— Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—
Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or
by Concentration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The
Magic Crystal Induces Waking Lucidity, when Gazed at—
Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—
Cases—Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the
Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced with¬
out the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—
Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathio Clairvoyance in
the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Frank¬
lin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovi-ion.
CHAPTER XXV Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travel¬
ling Clairvoyance—Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—
Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—Clairvoyance of
Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV :—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous
Mesmeric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions,
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Con¬
cluding Remarks, and Summary.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevebidge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbora,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and Sc. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
