Eegisteked as A Newspapeb#
S>ff) JOlI^>fSl< 0^ f>^YdS0I<0^ldSl< ^dl^K^S<-
 ^ fojt| S^minali^m m ®xa\ jritam, 
No. 388.—(Vol. XVI.—No. 5.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 1880. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
JAKES IALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qnality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to "whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LI&HTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
A.n interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. BPAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of ‘ The Theosophistf ” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
KES1EBISK, WITH HINTS EOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-booh by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
<£ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here thrown together
the results of his own experiences, at the request of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author has treated the subject
exactly in the way in which it is desirable that matters on which the public require information should he treated: and he tells concisely, and
yet fully, many of the secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar
to the progress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and he
holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also mesmerise far too
many persons. As to the beneficial results of mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a cure for epilepsy, headache,
toothache, or other ailment; and his final advice to the practitioner is,4 Call it w hat you like, but persistently employ it for the benefit of the
sick and suffering.’ Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume, he may at any rate be credited with having written
an interesting work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—TJie Publisher's Circular
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch. Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 30, 1880.
Just arrived from America. A NEW BOOK by
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.,
THE SPIRIT WORLD:
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 6. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o clock for reception of
friends.
Its Inhabitants, Nature, and Philosophy.
Price 6s. 6d., post free. Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
ALLAN KAR.DEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. Cd. Teubrer aed Jo., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing.
Appearance.
Very Stylish in
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE
LONDON
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
104, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Church (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (corner of Moscow and
Hereford-road), Bayswater, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
Crown 8vo, pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . .. His eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Fall Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
82 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 8d.
RATIONALE OF SPIRITUALISM.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane.
Just Published.
TKJ3, FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely hound in half-calf 8s. Gd.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MR. W. EGLINTON,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT,
LONDON, S.W.
Notice of removal to si,
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily;
and eight to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock.' 173
Rue St. Honore, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
RS. WOODEORDE’S Seance for Dr.
Monk's Fund will he held ou Wednesday
evening, the 28th, at 8 o’clock.
4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-square.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE,
of the Fox Sisters, of New York City, U.S
gives seances at her rooms every Tuesday, Thursday
and Friday, from 3 to 6 p.m. Private evening seances
from 8 to 10, either at house of party or at Mrs
Kane's rooms, must he made by letters sent to Mrs
Kane, at 4, Grenville street, Brunswick-square. No
private seances wtll be given on the above days adver¬
tised for seances from 3 to 6 p.m.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, EarTs-court, S.W.
Price 6d.; post free, 7£d.; cloth.
Pkize Essays.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the Fibst and Second
Gold Medals of the Bhitish National
Association of Spiritualists.
77/e Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W,G,
IND^AND MATTER,—A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Paujja,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J. M,
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings- (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free,
ttf ih$ St)i$wce arrit JSthias af !§pii}iti*atf$m.
No. 388,—VOiLUJVIE SIXTEEN; NujVIBER FIVE,
x,oisrr>o]sr, Friday, January Both, isso.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” Newspaper.
Established in 1S69. j \
Published Weekly. Pbice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and i \
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
British Museum-street, London. ! (
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia. Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay. ' 1
The Eight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Yay, Countess
WUrmbrand (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. E. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Eussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
C. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme).
Captain John James.
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. O. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Bov. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jeneken, Esq., M.B.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
John E. Pnrdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Miss Florence Marryat.
Madame Isabel do Steiger.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
‘ Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of the
Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H.M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.B.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
B. Friese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau.
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel.E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A. (Cantab.)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.B.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has & steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 6. Bue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Eoyal, Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Delia Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne ; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiajat
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad,
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Eussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia ; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
mHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
SPIRITUAL REVELATION.
Two orders of thought are contending inside
modern Spiritualism. The one advocates that utter¬
ances through mediumship should be accepted as
revelations of God to man, the other that the facts of
mediumship are spiritual and physical phenomena, to
be observed and classified, so that new principles and
spiritual and intellectual laws may therefrom be
deduced. The universal experience of mankind
attests the value of the latter method, and the value
of the former may be now examined.
Every week for the last thirty years new truths,
both of great and of small but of permanent value to
the world, have first been made known at the Thurs¬
day evening meetings of the Royal Society, whilst in
the same period, not a single new truth relating to
physics has been presented to mankind through
spiritual, mesmeric, or clairvoyant powers.
Psychical phenomena in themselves are new as
advanced in a scientific age, and are denied by the
bigots of science and would-be priests who believe
physics to be all-in-all; but the fact remains that
every Thursday evening more new revelations of the
physical truths of God’s universe are made at Bur¬
lington House than can be found in the ocean of
words uttered by trance mediums ever since modern
Spiritualism was known. All their utterances put
together have not so much interfered with com¬
merce as the single discovery of the method of
making artificial alizarine, or of making any one of
the colouring materials now produced from the
refuse of coal tar. Moreover, although the results of
such discoveries as these have built up colossal for¬
tunes, the Royal Society is intellectually pure enough
to regard the revelations of Mr. Crookes—likewise
first made known at its meetings—as to the ultimate
constitution of matter, as of infinitely higher value,
although scarcely a farthing of commercial value is
connected therewith. The Society looks with no
favour upon its coarser members, who are chiefly
interested in turning their valuable discoveries into
vulgar wealth, although it cannot find a just pretext
for striking them off the list of members for so doing.
Granting that nothing in relation to the physical
universe but phenomena tabooed by the ignorant has
been produced through mediumship, what spiritual
revelations have come through the same channel ? The
doctrine of eternal progression, also of the untruth of
the doctrines of eternal punishment and of the
incipient depravity of poor children born into the
world through no volition of their own, stand in the
foreground, and such vital teachings as these are of
infinite value to human happiness. But would not
the exercise of the untrammelled human thought of
the best human brains in their normal state lead to
the same result ? Where can we find better reve-
50
THE SPIRITUALIST.
lations in this direction than in some of the religious j
utterances in the books of normal thinkers published “I
by Mr. Trubner? For depth of knowledge and
cogency of reasoning, or for beauty of form, are trance j
utterances prepared to rival them ? If they cannot j
do so as a general rule, then we in Spiritualism are 1
dealing chiefly with a mass of crude phenomena, j
spiritual, mental, and physical, which are of no j
authority in themselves and have to be made of value !'
to the world by observation and by classification at |
the hands of upright critical observers, who decline to ].'
bow. down their intellects or their religious instincts j <
to a vulgar fat or lean man, who chances to have
some power about him, who, to his own surprise as well j <
, as that of others, discovers that sometimes he floats in j |
tbe air, or that knocking noises occur in his proximity. | <
So far, our line of argument has pointed in the ||
direction that normal intelligence can reveal more |<
religious truth than can come through the abnor- M
mal phenomena of mediumship. But there is j (
something to be said, on the other side, and one i
strongly practical instance can be advanced. Sweden- j (
borg was a medium, perhaps the greatest medium I
who ever lived, and he through mediumship was j
the first to reveal to the world the fact of n
the community of sensation between certain ;<
spirits, and that in the: spirit world nearness or j>
distance depend not upon time or space, but K
upon the. nearness or the distance of true affections. I)
Thus by spiritual sympathy with the inhabitant of a |(
(materially speaking) distant planet, he could see the 1)
conditions of life on that planet. This was then a j(
purely spiritual revelation, given through medium- j)
ship. But this community of sensation between j(
individuals was not absolutely demonstrated as a j;
truth until years after his death, by those numerous j<
and now common experiments in mesmerism, which |>
prove community in sensation on certain occasions \l
between the mesmeriser and his subject. The sensi- j;
tive sees, hears, tastes, feels, and thinks synchronously i(
with his mesmeriser. j)
Granting that now and then a new" revelation may j (
be found in the ocean of words given through trance j)
mediumship, there can be no greater bog for intel- j)
ligent people to fall into, than to accept the speeches !/
of sensitives on the platform of a mesmeric lecturer m
as the special and exceptional revelations of God to i)
man. They become revelations only after by hard I (
work the chaff has been separated from the wheat by I)
religious, scientific, and metaphysical people. This i(
is but proper. In all history, when the race has i(
obtained anything worth having, it has, by the high K
laws of a just God, been made to work for the result. j(
Idle enthusiasm brings its own punishment by a j\
process of eternal law.
AN ATHEIST’S ADDRESS ABOVE THE GRAVE OF !
A CHRISTIAN. - |
When the Rev. Dr. Alexander Clark’s death was i<
announced, the Albany Express stated that he was jj
the only known orthodox minister who ever took a j (
friendly interest in the sceptic and spoke good words \j
for him. And that Colonel Ingersoll appreciated the K
man and his great-heartedness, is revealed by these j j
feeling extracts from his tribute to the late editor :— i (
“Upon the grave of the Rev. Alexander Clark I n
Jan. 30, 1880.
wish to place one flower. Utterly destitute of cold
dogmatic pride that often passes for the love of God,
without the arrogance of the ‘ elect ’—simple, free,
and kind—this earnest man made me his friend by
being mine. I forgot that he was a Christian, and
he seemed to forget that I was not, while each
remembered that the other was a man. He believed
in the power of kindness, and spanned with divine
sympathy the hideous gulf that separated the fallen
from, the pure. Giving freely to others the rights
that he claimed for himself, it never occurred to him
that his God hated a brave and honest unbeliever.
With the generosity of an honest man, he ac¬
corded to all the fullest liberty of thought,
knowing, as he did, that in the realm of thought
a chain is but a curse. For this man I entertain
the profoundest respect. In spite of the taunts
and jeers of his brethren, he publicly proclaimed that
he would treat infidels with fairness and respect;
that he wmdd endeavour to convince them by argu¬
ment and win them with love. He insisted that the
God he worshipped loved the well-being of even an
atheist. In this grand position he stood almost alone.
Tender, just, and loving, where others were harsh,
vindictive, and cruel, he challenged the respect and
admiration of every honest man. He admitted that
I had not lost and could not lose a single right by
the expression of my honest thought. Neither did he
believe that a servant could win the respect of a
generous master by persecuting and maligning those
whom the master would willingly forgive. His sym-
pathi.es were not confined within the prison of a
creed, but ran out and over the walls like vines,
hiding the cruel rocks and rusted bars with leaf
and flower. He could not echo with his heart the
fiendish sentence of eternal fire. In spite of book
and creed, he ‘read between the lines’ the words
of tenderness and love, with promises for all the
world. Above, beyond the dogmas of the Church
—humane even to the verge of heresy—causing
some to doubt his love of God because he failed to
hate his unbelieving fellow men, he laboured for the
welfare of mankind, and to his work gave up his life
with all his heart.”
An Essay on Spikiiual Evolution. By J. P. B. (Triibner
aud Co.)—The author heartily and uncompromisingly goes in for
the doctrine that the ascensive steps of development visible in the
brain of mammals from the lowest to the highest type are asso¬
ciated with mental, and, in some cases, with moral dift'erences. It
is hard, after the admission of Professor Mivart. that some sort
of derivation theory is only possible to explain the genesis of the
human body, and that we must refer the inbreathing of a soul to
some supernatural act, to have so much inferred from the physical
differences which prevail between man and apes. The school of
Aogt and Buchner infers that man differs from the animals
beneath him much more physically than he does morally. Two
closely-allied species of American prehensile-tailed monkeys differ
strongly in their physical characters, yet their moral characters
are identical. The author considers it to be the duty of
“ religion to proclaim the universal brotherhood of man,” and
admits that “ all minds alike will not understand this I Religion
of Nature,’ ” whilst individual minds should be educated “ up to
it as far as may be possible.” But the examples chosen by the
author are sufficient to show that the savage races in many cases
have not recognised this “ Religion of Nature,” but that, on the
other hand, the oldest relics which time has afforded of the early
habits of man are those of hostile implements which may have
subserved the needs of warriors, but scarcely fulfil the requisites
of brothers, unless such brotherhood as that of Cain to Abel is
inferred.—Public Opinion.
51
Jan. 30, 1880. THE SPIRITUALIST.
ANCIENT OPINIONS UPON PSYCHIC BODIES.* |
BY C. C. MASSEY.
It must be confessed that modern Spiritualism |<
falls very short of the ideas formerly suggested by ||
the sublime designation which it has assumed. |
Chiefly intent upon recognising and putting forward j)
the phenomenal proofs of a future existence, it con- j<
cerns itself little with speculations on the distinction |)
between matter and spirit, and rather prides itself j'<
on having demolished materialism without the aid of 11
metaphysics. Perhaps a Platonist might say that the |
recognition of a future existence is consistent with a f
very practical and even dogmatic materialism, butit
is rather to be feared that such a materialism as this \]
would not greatly disturb the spiritual or intellectual I
repose of our modern phenomenalists.*!* Given the |
consciousness with its sensibilities safely housed in [
the psychic body which demonstratively survives the
physical carcase, and we are like men saved from j
shipwreck, who are for the moment thankful and j)
content, not giving thought whether they are landed j)
on a hospitable shore, or on a barren rock, or on an |
island of cannibals. It is not, of course, intended that j I
this <f hand to mouth ” immortality is sufficient for lj|
the many thoughtful minds whose activity gives life 1|
and progress to the movement, but that it affords j)
the relief which most people feel when in an age of j<
doubt they make the discovery that they are un- |j
doubtedly to live again. To the question, “ How are j(
the dead raised up, and with what body do they j)
come ? ” modern Spiritualism, with its empirical j \
methods, is not adequate to reply. Yet long before ||
Paul suggested it, it had attention of the most cele- j (
brated schools of philosophy, whose speculations on k
the subject, however little they may seem to be H
verified, ought not to be without interest to us, who, j)
after all, are still in the infancy of a Spiritualist H
revival. i)
It would not be necessary to premise, but for the n
frequency with which the phrase occurs, that “the j)
spiritual body” is a contradiction in terms. The n
office of body is to relate spirit to an objective world, j)
By Platonic writers it is usually termed okhema— h
“ vehicle.” It is the medium of action, and also of ! <
sensibility. In this philosophy the conception of soul I)
was not simply, as with us, the immaterial subject of ij
consciousness. How warily the interpreter has to n
tread here, every one knows who has dipped, even j<
superficially, into the controversies among Platonists |j
themselves. All admit the distinction between the j(
rational and the irrational part or principle—the latter I)
including, first, the sensibility, and secondly, the K
plastic, or that power which in obedience to its j
sympathies enables the soul to attach itself to, and to |<
organise into a suitable body those substances of the |)
universe to which it is most congruous. It is more j(
difficult to determine whether Plato or his principal j)
followers recognised in the rational soul or nous a |\
distinct and separable entity—that which is some- j)
times discriminated as “ the spirit.” Dr. Henry | s
More, no mean authority, repudiates this interpre- j)
* Extracted from T/ie Theosophist (Bombay). I (
t“I am afraid,” says Thomas Taylor, in his introduction to the Phsedo, j /
‘there are scarcely any at the present day who know that it is one thing for i)
the soul to be separated from the body, and another for the body to be j)
separated from the soul, and that the former is by no means a necessary con- j)
sequence of the latter.’’ ! \
tation. “ There can be nothing more monstrous,” he
says, “than to make two souls in man, the one sensitive,
the other rational, really distinct from one another,
and to give the name of astral spirit to the former;
when there is in man no astral spirit beside the plastic
of the soul itself, which is always inseparable from
that which is rational. Nor upon any other account
can it be called astral, but as it is liable to that cor¬
poreal temperament which proceeds from the stars,
or rather from any material causes in general, as not
being yet sufficiently united with the divine body—
that vehicle of divine virtue or power.” So he main¬
tains that the Kabalistic three souls—Nephesh,
Ruach, Neschamah—originate in a misunderstand¬
ing of the true Platonic doctrine, which is that of
a threefold “ vital congruity.” These correspond to
the three degrees of bodily existence) or to the
three “vehicles”—the terrestrial, the aerial, and the
ethereal. The latter is the augoeides—the luciform
vehicle of the purified soul whose irrational part has
been brought under complete subjection to the
rational. The aerial is that in which the great
majority of mankind find themselves at the dissolu¬
tion of the terrestrial body, and in which the incom¬
plete process of purification has to be undergone
during long ages of preparation for the soul’s return
to its primitive, ethereal state. For it must be
remembered that the pre-existence of souls is a dis¬
tinguishing tenet of this philosophy as of the Kabala.
The soul has “ sunk into matter.” From its highest
original state the revolt of its irrational nature has
awakened and developed successively its “vital
congruities” with the regions below, passing, by
means of its “ plastic,” first into the aerial, and after¬
wards into the terrestrial condition. Each of these
regions teems also with an appropriate population
which never passes, like the human soul, from one to
the other—“gods,” “ demons,” and animals.* As to
duration, “ the shortest of all is that of the terrestrial
vehicle. In the aerial, the soul may inhabit, as
they define, many ages, and in the ethereal, for
ever.”
Speaking of the second body, Henry More says
“ the soul’s astral vehicle is of that tenuity that itself
can as easily pass the smallest pores of the body as
the light does glass, or the lightning the scabbard of
a sword without tearing or scorching of it.” And
again, “I shall make bold to assert that the soul
may live in an aerial vehicle as well as in the ethereal,
and that there are very few that arrive to that high
happiness as to acquire a celestial vehicle imme¬
diately upon their quitting the terrestrial one;
that heavenly chariot necessarily carrying us in
triumph to the greatest happiness the soul of man is
capable of, which would arrive to all men indif¬
ferently, good o£ bad, if the parting with this earthly
body would suddenly mount us into the heavenly.
When by a just Nemesis the souls of men that are
not heroically virtuous will find themselves restrained
within the compass of this caliginous air, as both
Reason itself suggests, and the Platonists have unani¬
mously determined.” Thus also the most thorough¬
going, and probably the most deeply versed in the
* The allusion here is to those beings of the several kingdoms of the
elements which we theosophists, following after the Kabalists, have called the
“ elementals.” They never become men.—Ed. Theosophist.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 30, L880.
doctrines of the master among modern Platonists, j)
Thomas Taylor (Introduction : Phsedo). “ After this j (
our divine philosopher informs that the pure soul |)
will after death return to pure and eternal natures ; K
hut that the impure soul, in consequence of its being
imbued with terrene affections, will be drawn down i \
to a kindred nature, and be invested with a gross j/
vehicle capable of being seen by the corporeal eye.* K
For while a propensity to body remains in the soul, j|
it causes her to attract a certain vehicle to herself, K
either of an aerial nature, or composed from the |)
spirit and vapours of her terrestrial body, or which is j (
recently collected from surrounding air; for accord- j/
ing to the arcana of the Platonic philosophy, between | (
an ethereal body, which is simple and immaterial, and j)
is the eternal connate vehicle of the soul, and a |j
terrene body, which is material and composite, and of j)
short duration, there is an aerial body, which is \S
material indeed, but simple and of a more extended j)
duration; and in this body the unpurified soul dwells n
for a long time after its exit from hence, till this j)
pneumatic vehicle being dissolved, it is again Is
invested with a composite body; while, on the con- j)
trary, the purified soul immediately ascends into the K
celestial regions with its ethereal vehicle alone." j)
Always it is the disposition of the soul that deter- K
mines the quality of its body. “However the soul jr
be in itself affected,” says Porphyry (translated by b
Cudworth), “ so does it always find a body suitable | (
and agreeable to its present disposition, and there- i)
fore to the purged soul does naturally accrue a j(
body that comes next to immateriality, that is, an j)
ethereal one.” And the same author, “The soul is j<
never quite naked of all body, but hath always some j>
body or other joined with it, suitable and agreeable |(
to its present disposition (either a purer or impurer j>
one). But that at its first quitting this gross earthly j(
body, the spirituous body which accompanieth it (as ]>
its vehicle) must needs go away fouled and incras- 1
sated with the vapours and steams thereof, till the j)
soul afterwards by degrees purging itself, this j(
becometh at length a dry splendour, which hath no j;
misty obscurity nor casteth any shadow.” Here, it K
will be seen, we lo.se sight of the specific difference |>
of the two future vehicles—the ethereal is regarded If
as a sublimation of the aerial. This, however, is j)
opposed to the general consensus of Plato’s com- j(
mentators. Sometimes the ethereal body, or j)
augoeides, is appropriated to the rational soul, or U
spirit, which must then be considered as a distinct j>
entity, separable from the lower soul. Philoponus, a \l
Christian writer, says “that the rational soul, as to |>
its energy, is separable from all body, but the j(
irrational part or life thereof is separable only from j)
this gross body, and not from all body whatsoever, j(
but hath after death a spirituous or airy body, in j)
which it acteth ; this, I say, is a true opinion which K
shall afterwards be proved by us. . . . The irrational j)
life of the soul hath not all its beine' in this gross K
earthly body, but remaineth after the soul’s departure l>
out of it, having for its vehicle and subject the H
spirituous body, which itself is also compounded out !)
of the four elements, but receiveth its denomination 1.
from the predominant part, to wit, air, as this gross [i
* This is the Hindu theory of nearly every one of the Aryan philosophies.— j (
Ed, ThtosophUt. ... , \1
body of ours is called earthy from what is most pre¬
dominant therein.”—Cudworth, Intell. Syst. From
the same source we extract the following :—“ Where¬
fore these ancients say that impure souls after their
departure out of this body wander here up and down for
a certain space in their spirituous, vaporous, and airy
body, appearing about sepulchres and haunting their
former habitation. For which cause there is great
reason that we should take care of living well, as also
of abstaining from a fouler and grosser diet; these
ancients telling us likewise that this spirituous body
of ours being fouled and incrassated by evil diet, is
apt to render the soul in this life also more obnoxious
to the disturbances of passions. They further add
that there is something of the Plantal or Plastic life,
also exercised by the soul, in those spirituous or airy
bodies after death ; they being nourished, too,
though not after the same- manner, as those gross
earthy bodies of ours are here, but by vapours, and
that not by parts or organs, but throughout the
whole of them (as sponges), they imbibing everywhere
those vapours. For which cause they who are wise
will in this life also take care of using a thinner and
drier diet, that so that spirituous body (which we
have also at this present time within our proper
body) may not be clogged and incrassed, but
attenuated. Over and above which those ancients made
use of catharms, or purgations, to the same end and
purpose also. For as this earthy body is washed by
water, so is that spirituous body cleansed by cathartic
vapours, some of these vapours being nutritive, others
purgative. Moreover, these ancients further declared
concerning this spirituous body that it was not
organised, but did the whole of it in every part
throughout exercise all functions of sense, the soul
hearing, seeing, and perceiving all sensibles by it every¬
where. For which cause Aristotle himself affirmeth in
his metaphysics that there is properly but one sense
and one sensory. He by this one sensory meaneth the
spirit, or subtle airy body, in which the sensitive
power doth all of it through the whole immediately
apprehend all variety of sensibles. And if it be
demanded how it comes to pass that this spirit
becomes organised in sepulchres, and most commonly
of human form, but sometimes in the forms of other
animals ? to this those ancients replied that their
appearing so frequently in human form pro¬
ceeded from their being incrassated with evil
diet, and then, as it were, stamped upon with the
form of this exterior ambient body in which they
are, as crystal is formed and coloured like to those
things which it is fastened in, or reflects the image
of them. And that their having sometimes other
different forms proceedeth from the fantastic powrer
of the soul itself, which can at pleasure transform the
spirituous body into any shape. For being airy,
when it is condensed and fixed, it becometh visible,
and again invisible and vanishing out of sight when
it is expanded and rarified.”—Proem in Arist. de
Animd. And Cudworth says : “ Though spirits or
ghosts had certain supple bodies which they could so far
condense as to make them sometimes visible to men,
yet is it reasonable enough to think that they could
not constipate or fix them into such a firmness,
grossness, and solidity as that of flesh and bone is to
continue therein, or at least not without such diffi-
53
Jan. 30, 1880. THE SPIRITUALIST.
culty and pain as would hinder them from attempting
the same. Notwithstanding which it 'is not denied
that they may possibly sometimes make use of other
solid bodies, moving and acting them, as in that
famous story of Phlegons, when the body vanished,
not as other ghosts used to do, but was left a dead
carcase behind.”
In all these speculations the Aniraa Mundi plays
a conspicuous part. It is the source and principle of
all animal souls, including the irrational soul of man.
But in man, who would otherwise be merely analogous
to other terrestrial animals, this soul participates in
a higher principle, which tends to raise and convert it
to itself. To comprehend the nature of this union or
hypostasis, it would be necessary to have mastered
the whole of Plato’s philosophy as comprised in the
Parmenides and the Timseus ; and he would dogma¬
tise rashly who without this arduous preparation
should claim Plato as the champion of an uncon¬
ditional immortality. Certainly in' the Phsedo, the
dialogue popularly supposed to contain all Plato’s teach¬
ing on the subject, the immortality allotted to the
impure soul is of a very questionable character, and
we should rather infer from the account there given
that the human personality, at all events, is lost by |
successive immersions into “ matter.” The following I
passage from Plutarch (quoted by Madame Blavatsky, I
Isis Unveiled, Yol. IT., p. 284) will at least demon- j
strate the antiquity of notions which have recently j
been mistaken for fanciful novelties: “ Every soul j
hath some portion of nous, reason—a man cannot be j
a man without it; but as much of each soul as is j
mixed with flesh and appetite is changed, and through I
pain and pleasure becomes irrational. Every soul j
doth not mix herself after one sort: some plunge j
themselves into the body, and so in this life their |
whole frame is corrupted by appetite and passion; j
others are mixed as to some part, but the purer part |
still remains without the body. It is not drawn down I
into the body, but it swims above, and touches the |
extremest part of the man’s head; it is like a cord to j
hold up and direct the subsiding part of the soul, as |
long as it proves obedient, and is not overcome by !
the appetites of the flesh. The part that is plunged j
into the body is called soul. But the incorruptible |
part is called the nous, and the vulgar think it is |
within them, as they likewise imagine the image
reflected from a glass to be in that glass. But the I'
more intelligent, who know it to be without, call it h
Daemon.” And in the same learned work (Isis |!
Unveiled) vie have two Christian authorities, Irenaeus h
and Origen, cited for like distinction between spirit j>
and soul in such a manner as to show that the former k
must necessarily be regarded as separable from the
latter. In the distinction itself there is, of course, ho j(
novelty for the most moderately well informed. It is |)
insisted upon in many modern works, among which |(
maybe mentioned Heard’s Trichotomy of Man and i)
Green’s Spiritual Philosophy; the latter being an K
exposition of Coleridge’s opinion on this and cog- j)
nate subjects. But the difficulty of regarding the two K
principles as separable in fact as well as in logic arises |j
from the sense, if it is not the illusion of personal j(
identity. That we are partible, and that one part j)
only is immortal, the non-metaphysical mind rejects K
with the indignation which is always encountered by I)
a proposition that is at once distasteful and unin¬
telligible. Yet perhaps it is not a greater difficulty
(if, indeed, it is not the very same) than that hard
saying which troubled Nicodemus, and which yet has
been the key-note of the mystical religious conscious¬
ness ever since. This, however, is too extensive and
deep a question to be treated in this article, which has
for its object chiefly to call attention to the distinctions
introduced by ancient thought into the conception of
body as the instrument or “ vehicle ” of soul. That
there is a correspondence between the spiritual con¬
dition of man and the medium of his objective
activity every Spiritualist will admit to be probable,
and it may well be that some light is thrown on future
states by the possibility or the manner of spirit com¬
munication with this one.
UNCONSCIOUS CEREBRATION ?
“ Senex ” writes :—Since I wrote the note on
Coleridge’s habit, when residing with his friend Gill-
man, of annotating the books circulated by the
Highgate Book Club, I have picked up a copy of Dr.
John Brown’s interesting little tract, “ Bibliomania,”
and in it I find two passages to which I hope you will
allow me to draw attention. The first, which with
Brown’s comment would occupy too much of your
space to admit of my quoting it, refers to a curious
note in Coleridge’s handwriting in a copy of Whistle-
craft’s (Hookham Frere) Prospectus and Specimen
of an Intended National Work, “ which formerly
belonged to Mr. Gillman,” and probably is one of the
books to which I referred, and as such strongly con¬
firmatory of what I had said upon the subject.
Some half-dozen pages of the Doctor’s essay are
occupied with his account of Coleridge’s own copy of
the first edition of Southey’s Joan of Arc, which is
one of those volumes of which Lamb speaks as
“ enriched with S. T. C.’s annotations, tripling their
value.” I only propose to refer to one of them.
) j Coleridge had a large share in the composition of this
ji poem, and criticises it pretty freely. The greater
(| part of Book II. was written by Coleridge himself,
)j and is marked as his composition. At the long
(j passage beginning “Maid beloved of Heaven,” he
) | has written, “ These are very fine lines, though I say
^ | it that should not; but hang me if I know, or ever
>| did know, the meaning of them, though my own
[j composition.” Startling as this candid confession
• | is, it has been paralleled in my own time by as
j great a poet as Coleridge, as I have reason to
| know. When Lord Francis Egerton was translat-
] ing Faust he came to a passage which puzzled him.
He referred to all the numerous writings upon Goethe’s
| masterpiece by his admiring countrymen, but with-
| out success; and, as a last resource, he determined to
| write to the poet himself. He did so, and in due
j time received a very courteous reply, nearly identical
i with Coleridge’s confession—at least, so far as an
acknowledgment on Goethe’s part that he really did
I not know what he had in his mind when he wrote
| the passage in question. I hope I shall not be .
j looked upon as a literary heretic if I suggest to such
of my friends as are in the habit of discussing so
J interminably some of the more obscure passages in
; the writings of Shakespeare, that if through mes-
54
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 30, 1880.
meric influence the poet could be questioned as to
what he intended by the passages in question he
might candidly admit with Coleridge and Goethe,
“ Hang me if I know, or ever did know, the mean¬
ing of them, though my own composition.”—Pall
Mall Gazette, 21st January, 1880.
THE CARNIVAL. j
BY H. Or. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OF “LETTERS TO MISS |(
MARTINEAU.” j H
We shall soon have the Carnival or Farewell to j<
Flesh, all the feasting, frolics, and masquerading of j]
an observance in Popish countries before Lent, with jj
likewise its fastings and its prayers, the fasting jJ
having respect to health as well as to spiritual life. HI
The matter is well stated by Lord Yerulam as |)|
follows in its spiritual bearing:— j < j
“The divination which springeth from the internal 1)1
nature of the soul is that which we now speak of; m
which hath been made to be of two sorts—primitive, |)|
and by influxion. Primitive is grounded upon the m
supposition that the mind when it is withdrawn and i I
collected into itself, and not diffused into the organs n j
of the body, hath some extent and latitude of pre- m
notion, which therefore appeareth most in sleep, in |||
ecstasies, and near death, and more rarely in waking m
apprehensions; and is induced and furthered by those j j |
abstinences and observances which make the mind m
most to consist in itself. By influxion, is grounded ' n
upon the conceit that the mind, as a mirror or glass, j)j
should take illumination from the foreknowledge of ]) j
God and spirits, unto which the same regimen doth |)j
likewise conduce. For the retiring of the mind m
within itself is the state which is most susceptible of ! (j
divine influxions, save that it is accompanied in this ! j |
case with a fervency and elevation which the ancients
noted as fury, and not with a repose and quiet, as it nil
is in the other."
Under mesmerism we have a variety of such states I j j
as those of the sleeping and the waking somnambuie, ](!
also the trance and the ecstatic conditions, all more ?)j
or less partaking of the elements of pre-notion and i(j
clairvoyance, and as if communing with spirits or j)j
superior beings. Sometimes, if questioned, mesmeric j'u
sleepers would say, “Jt” tells me, or “the voice” nj
which reminds one of the spirit or voice which |(j
prompted or warned Socrates.
I myself have on several anxious occasions, in effect- | (i
ing mesmeric cures, distinctly heard the voice urging | \ i
me to proceed when I began to despair; but I always j (|
succeeded after hearing the voice. Both Emerson m
and Montaigne have some curious remarks in respect Hi
to inspirations and exaltations under abnormal con- j)|
ditions,* and Bacon in respect to numbers, “when Hi
two or three are gathered together” (Christian ser- f/j
vice). He says, “ If there be any force in the imagi- i) i
nation and affections of singular persons, it is probable j /1
the force is much more in the joint imaginations and Hj
affections of many or of multitudes,” and he gives ! / j
instances in proof.
Plutarch’s remarks on the origin of the oracles, and m
the reason as to how it came that they ceased, is very m
instructive. The statement of the influence of num- |?|
bers is exemplified in the sittings of Spiritualists; Hj
, .         | ) |
'f See my letters to H.M., page 306.
but I must cut this short, or I shall be writing a book
rather than some few observations on the approach¬
ing Carnival, and the influence of fasting inducing
spiritual conditions, in respect to which gross feeding
is unfavourable. The flesh occupying the nerve power
is literally at war with the spirit. But there are ex¬
ceptions, Socrates to wit: he is represented as cor¬
pulent, and not particularly abstemious ; he also had
features certainly not such as they gave to the
Apollo.
So little can we judge intellect and worth by
appearances—“ the inward and spiritual grace by the
outward and visible form ”—that the inner man often
seems under a mask.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.
THE IRON PEN.
Made from a Fetter of Bonnivard, the Prisoner of Chillon ; the Handle of
Wood from the Frigate Constitution, and bound with a Circlet of Gold, inset with
three precious Stones from Siberia, Ceylon, and Maine.
BY HENRY W. LONGFELLOW.
I thought this Pen would arise
From the casket where it lies—
Of itself would arise and write
My thanks and my surprise.
When you gave it me under the pines,
I dreamed these gems from the mines
Of Siberia, Ceylon, and Maine
Would glimmer as thoughts in the lines ;
That this iron link from the chain
Of Bonnivard might retain
Some verse of the poet who sang
Of the prisoner and his pain ;
That this wood from the frigate’s mast
Might write me a rhyme at last,
As it used to write on the sky
The song of the sea and the blast.
But motionless as I wait,
Like a bishop lying in state,
Lies the Pen, with its mitre of gold,
And its jewels inviolate.
Then must I speak, and say
That the light of that summer day
In the garden under the pines
Shall not fade and pass away.
I shall see you standing there,
Caressed by the fragrant air,
With the shadow on your face,
And the sunshine on your hair.
I shall hear the sweet, low tone,
Of a voice before unknown,
Saying, “ This is from me to you—
From me, and to you alone.”
And in words not idle and vain
I shall answer, and thank you again
For the gift, and the grace of the gift,
Oh beautiful Helen of Maine !
And for ever this gift will be
As a blessing from you to me,
As a drop of the dew of your youth
On the leaves of an aged tree.
—Harper s Magazine.
Jan. 30. 1880. THE SPIRITUALIST. 55
THE REALITY OF APPARITIONS.
BY WILLIAM SHARPE, M.D.
It must be admitted that a belief in the existence
of spectres and apparitions of various kinds has
existed in all nations from the remotest times down
to the present day. And notwithstanding that divers
theories of hallucination and illusion have been put
forward to explain away ghost stories, and that
scientists and philosophers, starting with preconceived
ideas of what is and is not possible in nature, have
laboured hard to account for all such stories as clash
with their own particular views on the subject,
nevertheless, as regards the great mass of mankind,
their arguments have had little effect in dispelling
this old world-wide belief in the reality of appari¬
tions. For although these so-called scientific
explanations may appear satisfactory to many per¬
sons who have not themselves been brought face to
face with the supernatural in the form of visions and
apparitions, yet the majority of people prefer rather
to accept the precise statements of those who have
witnessed the phenomena in question. In former
times this general belief was undisputed ; then the
greatest intellects of the world believed in the con¬
tinual manifestation of spiritual beings; for to doubt
the reality of such things would have been in many
instances not only to doubt the evidence of their own
senses, but the distinct testimony so frequently given
by friends and acquaintances.
But in treating briefly of the subject here, I will
not waste time in bringing forward any selections
from the hundreds, of authenticated ghost stories now
extant, but will confine myself to one or two instances
of the kind which came under my own observation.
The first here related will no doubt be set down as an
ordinary case of individual mental illusion on the part
of the narrator, for the facts vouched for were not
witnessed by any others.
In the beginning of November, 1868, the writer,
who was then staying in the south of England, was
returning late from a friend’s house on a fine, clear,
moonlight night. It was unusually mild and warm
for the season of the year, and the bright moon shed
a strange and dreamy light over the fields and hedge¬
rows ; the smallest objects were distinctly visible on
the road and in the fields close by, and it was alto¬
gether a pleasure to walk on leisurely in the quiet
stillness of such a night. But on coming to a place
where two or three roads joined, I was in some doubt
as to the one I should take; just then I distinctly
saw a woman walking a little way before me. I
hastened on with the intention of asking her which
road I had better follow ; but I was very much sur¬
prised to find that as I neared her she appeared- to
glide noiselessly rather than walk, and presently
what appeared to be a material and substantial figure
became dim and shadowy, but still the human out¬
line was distinctly visible. But on coming nearer
still, the figure became again apparently substantial
and opaque, and so remained until I lost sight of it
for a moment where the road took a sharp turn. I
hastened on, hoping to come in sight of the woman
again, when instantly I saw her coming back towards
me. She came gliding on until she was within a
few feet of me, or in fact until she had partly passed
me, towards the side of the road where there was an
M iron gate, firmly closed, with some branches placed
j)j between its bars,, and there vanished, or seemed
Ki rather to dissolve instantaneously in air. She was
|)| apparently dressed in a dark-coloured gown without
| \! any cloak or other muffling. She was altogether in
I) | my view, while I walked quickly, about one hundred
| \ | and fifty yards.
The second instance which I bring forward hap-
|); pened a short time previously.
In the month of September, 1868, I was in the
jy! north-west of Ireland. Two friends and myself were
||| returning home leisurely in the dusk of the evening,
m We had been out angling for trout on a fine lake near
Iff the place where we resided. We were talking of the
{|| sport, when the attention of my companions was
m attracted by the sound of footsteps behind us. We
m turned almost simultaneously, and as we did so we
j)j distinctly saw a woman dressed in some dark or
hi brown material, with some white-coloured article of
j<j dress about the neck and shoulders. She was in the
hi act of stepping from a stone stile on to the road,
| | along the side of which she wTalked a few paces, and
||| then sat down. There seemed a strangeness in her
i (i action which caused us to go back towards her to see
h j what was the matter; but when we came within a
|)i few paces of her, she suddenly rose some two or three
111 feet above the road, and glided noiselessly at that
||| height in the air to the opposite side of the way,
| j I when she seemed to contract and fade, or, as in the
|(| other case, to vanish into air. We all three saw the
hi apparition at the same time, and could by no
means have been in any way deceived as to its
||| objective reality and its external and independent
|y | existence.
Now, in the first instance related, it might be
| < i affirmed, as it usually is, that the narrator was merely
||| the subject of some passing mental illusion. To me
j<j this illusion theory, though set forth at great length
flj by physiologists and psychologists, is so weak and
R| trivial that I will not waste words in trying to refute
1 it. But even such theoretical explanations, with what-
j|| ever show of reason they may be urged in the case of
hi a single person, are still more unsatisfactory when
iyf applied in the case of two or more individuals who
hi have witnessed the same strange visions at the same
|| instant.
In conclusion, if I am asked how can such things
n| as I have narrated be possible, I answer that I do
|)| not know. I merely state facts that to me, and to
|y| all who have witnessed the like, are entirely con-
|) | elusive, and not to be set aside or explained away by
jV| all the philosophy in the world ; for such phenomena
| | have in times past, as in the present day, continually
|)| demonstrated, if such demonstration be needed, the
hi ever-present reality of the spirit world around us.
I < i Mrs. Woodforde desires us to announce that her seances at 90,
|)| Great Russell-street, London, with Mr. Husk as medium, will
| )| henceforth be held on Wednesday evenings.
I j | Mrs. Makdougall Gregory will leave London, to-morrow for
|)| Yentnor, Isle of Wight. At her usual seance last Wednesday
| /1 night, at 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, Mrs.
|(j Hollis-Billing was the medium. The guests present were Mrs.
Ki Ramsay, Lord Greenock, Miss Mattie Houghton, Mr. F. W.
ji Percival, M.A., Mrs. Duncan, Mr. Annesley Mayne, and Mr.
!■• i ’ Harrison.
56 THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 30, 1880.
SPONTANEOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA. |
BY ELIZA BOUCHER. j )
'■ Few general readers are aware how largely accounts j)
of psychological facts and phenomena are scattered i <
through the writings of men who have not only i)
declined to identify themselves with the great spiritual ] <
movement of the day, but have in some cases treated j)
that movement with derision. j \
I have already largely quoted the Hon. Grantley j)
Berkeley’s works, and shall in this article give two | (
more interesting accounts extracted from them.. The |)
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Savile also has written an excel- I j
lent little work on well-authenticated cases of appari- j)
tions, and lias taken the pains to correct minor errors j j
in the now almost historical account of the Beresford i)
ghost. His wife being a descendant of the seeress j ^
rendered him peculiarly suitable for the task, and to |)
my surprise I recently found one of the best accounts j j
of spiritual sight (as the author terms it, although I j)
cannot but think that another theory, viz., gross ma- j j
terialisation on the part of the spirit, is a far more j (
rational explanation) being developed among the |
lower animals, in the Rev. J. G. Wood’s interesting | ^
work, Man and Beast Here and Hereafter. According j)
to Iritheiim (I quote from your number for January j <
2nd, 1880), the reign of Michael, when the great pro- j)
blems of the ages are to be solved, commenced in j (
November, 1879. As if to inaugurate that era, we | j
have about that time an account in one of the leading j l
periodicals of the day, The Athenaeum, of the psycho- j)
logical experiences of an antiquary, by no means j (
identified with the spiritual movement, whose position i)
and honesty in giving place, names, and date preclude j (
the possibility of wilful deception. i)
This account, from his own pen, has been copied j <
even into the comparatively obscure country papers j;
of the west of England. I have myself seen it in j (
two of these ; and the Pictorial World, appealing as |)
it does to quite another class of readers, gives a j \
remarkable narrative, vouching for the facts as of j /
recent occurrence, of the appearance of a family j\
apparition to a visitor. The apparition was so |J
intensely materialised as to suggest at the time no j (
idea of its psychic origin. The Standard, of some j >
days since, announced the fact that clairvoyance has j<
been employed to discover the bodies of the unfor- |>
tunate victims of the Tay Bridge accident. i (
All these interesting “signs of the times” point J)
but in one direction, and will go far to lead thought- I (
ful people, however prejudiced against Spiritualism, |)
to pause ere they relegate to the regions of myth or js
imposture phenomena recorded in the literature of ; i)
the enlightened nineteenth century, as well as in all K
former ages, and which once founded where all true j)
Spiritualists wish to see it—on that Rock of Ages, true s
scientific inquiry and demonstration—must prove itself
that light of the world for which brave hearts and j<
true have watched and waited all adown the years, >
yea, even as they that “wait for the morning.” ' |
A DEATH OMEN APPARITION.
In one of the first game counties in the kingdom, ^
though the house shall be nameless now, I have all (
my life heard of a ghost in the shape of an old house- )
keeper, who haunted a landing-place on the stairs, on \
the extraordinary and prevailing mission of this !
description of ghost, viz., to warn the family of some
approaching death in the members who composed it.
This apparition was said to have been repeatedly seen,
and I select the last tidings told me of it as the most
extraordinary and authentic of all. Mrs. , a
good, kind-hearted, jolly soul, and a member of the
family, was staying in the mansion, and had been
there for some time alone. In writing to her friend,
a gentleman of my acquaintance, in one of her letters
she said, “ Only fancy, I have been here for a length
of time, and up that said-to-be-haunted-staircase at
nearly all hours of the night, but I have never been
lucky enough to see the mysterious visitant in the
old brocaded gown ! ” or words of similar effect. A
period of some little time then elapsed, and she
wrote again to her friend in her usual good spirits,
her letter exclaiming, as far as written words could
exclaim, “ Only fancy, last night I saw the ghost! ”
Again, a short period elapsed, and the next letter,
from a mutual friend, was to announce the death
of the lady with whom he had so recently been in
correspond ence.—Grantley Berkeley.
A HEADLESS APPARITION APPEALING TO TWO SENSES.
Not very long ago—perhaps not more than two
years previous to the publication of these volumes—
a lady, a very sincere friend of mine, for whom I have
the highest respect and regard, told me, that about
that period the following curious circumstance oc¬
curred, and this tale, as the ghost certainly in this in¬
stance did, should carry some weight with it, the ap¬
pearance put in being tangible as well as ocularly de¬
monstrated, and felt as well as seen.
Well, then, about two years ago—dating back
from this time, November, 1866—a lady, a little
beyond the heyday of youth, clever, sensible, and
nice, and what some people perhaps might deem
“ strong-minded,” went on a visit to a mansion in
Scotland belonging to a host and hostess whose
“names shall be nameless” now; and who, with
their accustomed and most agreeable hospitality,
were at the time entertaining a large party. The
first evening of Miss C ’s stay passed off plea¬
santly enough, as all the evenings were accustomed
to do there ; but, having travelled, she went to bed
early, seeking her chamber at about ten o’clock.
The chamber itself was a large and handsome one, of
the old-fashioned kind, its chief feature being a huge
antique bed—an out-and-out massive four-poster, or
four-pillared domicile for sleep—in which an occu¬
pant could ever find a cool corner or a fresh place if
inclined to restlessness or a change of recumbent
position. Of course its legs and feet—I mean those
of the bed, not the lady—were of the most stalwart
description, and as black as the old blackest oak
could be. Over these steady understandings, as well
as over the living treasures the bed contained, there
stood up, reaching high, gloomily but haughtily to the
ceiling, a canopy that in its lugubrious stillness
mocked at motion, and nodded not to the fair weight
above which it so loftily presided, even when the bed
beneath felt the pressure of no inconsiderable form.
Miss C had been in bed but a short time, and
had not yet succumbed to the drowsy god, when she
was suddenly aroused by a sense of pressure, as of
some weight on her feet, and on gazing in that direc¬
tion, there, confessed and standing up—upright on the
Jan. 30, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
57
bed—considerably indenting it and oppressing her |||
legs, was the figure of a woman, but without the |1
semblance of a head. Miss C confesses that the k!
horrible terror she then felt was beyond description, |>|
for there was nothing to screen her steadfast view, I (j
nothing to mystify the outline of what she saw, but j) I
above her, on the foot of the bed, fully confessed in the j (I
light of a still blazing fire, ■ there for an instant paused j) |
this terrible spectre. While awestruck, terrified,and j^j
motionless she thus gazed, the figure deliberately jji
walked—no gliding, no nonsense; heavily, visibly, {<|
and tangibly stepping, indenting the clothes and |)|
making her feel—three times backwards and forwards k j
across the bed ; and then, instead of vanishing pro- i|I
miscuously, or fading away, the ghost slowly got down k |
from the foot of the bed—using its legs to do so-— m
and in the action rustled the curtains of the bed con- K:
siderably. No sooner off the bed than out of sight; ' )j
because, of course, the tall pillars that supported the |(|
bed, and the ample curtains, screened all further j/j
view. Nothing daunted, though, of course, consider- yj
ably shocked and affected, Miss C  rose and |)|
looked round the foot of the bed, and then all in the j\j
room, but not a glimpse of the ghostly visitant re- |j|
mained, so, feeling no inclination to sleep, nor desire k|
to disturb the house, she lit her candles till the dawn !>j
of day, and awaited the advent, to call her, of her !|
maid. Then feeling it impossible to pass another j)|
night in that haunted chamber, on the next morning y
she pleaded the excuse of sudden and important l-l
business, and left the house. In narrating this ex- k|
traordinary occurrence to my friend, with a shudder Pi
she said, “I seem still to hear the rustle of those cur- Mi
tains even now, as the thing let itself down upon the Pj
floor.” Some time after this occurrence Miss C  |f j
heard from a friend—to whom she had not at the b
time narrated it—that she, too, had been a guest in m
the same house, which was thereafter put in repair, /
and that while some repairs were being done to the M
bedroom of the host and hostess, they changed to the l|]
room in which she had been put to sleep ; but that |j|
on the following morning, in evident haste, they left ]l|
the room and returned to their own room, although til
in a state of considerable discomfort. “ I really j) |
think,” said her friend, at the same time laughing at m
the conceit, “ that that house is haunted!’—From the IH
Hon. G. Berkeley’s Anecdotes of the Upper Ten j||
Thousand, (Richard Bentley: London. 1867.) 1 \\\
Albion Villa, Fremantle-square, Bristol.
LADY CHATTERTON’S VISION.
In March, 1869, while we were at Malvern Wells, hi
an event occurred which the reader will of course j/j
take for what he may think it worth; but which I m
cannot see my way to explain as a coincidence. She M
(Lady Chatterton) had a great regard for Father hj
Hewitt, O.S.B., and he had always shown a very j/j
marked sympathy for her in her difficulties. One jjj
afternoon she said, “I am sure that dear Father ju
Hewitt is dead. I saw him just now, when I was jji
upstairs, as clearly as possible, dressed in the Bene- ffj
dictine habit, only it was of dazzling whiteness. He |j|
seemed high above me in the air, and he looked at j)j
me. I knew, then, that he was dead.” It was about jj j
two o’clock in the afternoon. The next morning’s M
post brought us the news that he had died at the
time , when she saw him.—Memoirs of Georgiana
Lady Chatterton, by E. Heneage Dering. Hurst
and Blackett, London.
CLAIRVOYANCE AND THE RECOVERY OF BODIES.
The Dundee Advertiser of January 11th, says :—
Of the many plans which have been suggested for
the recovery of the bodies of the missing passengers,
the latest and most novel is that of mesmerism. The
proposal was first mooted by Mr. John Barclay, shoe¬
maker, North Church-street, Clepington, who had
such implicit faith in its success that he resolved to
make a practical demonstration. For this purpose a
small yacht was hired, and he left the harbour at a
quarter-past eleven o’clock yesterday forenoon, accom¬
panied by a female “clairvoyant.” Mr. Barclay
makes the following statement of his “ enterprise : ”
—I took out the “clairvoyant” in a boat, and mes¬
merised her on the water. After this I asked her to
point out to me in what part of the river there were
bodies lying. She pointed to a certain spot, which
was described by the boatman as “ the second bank,”
and said there was a body of a man on it. The crew
of the boat knew the place, and said they thought the
statement of the “clairvoyant”.was correct,as bodies
had been found near the place. I told the “clair¬
voyant” to describe the dress that was on the body.
She said there was a dark topcoat and a pair of dark
trousers on it. I then asked if there was a watch,
and she said there was. I requested her to look into
the right hand pocket of the trousers and tell what
was in it. She replied—“There is silver in it, and
there is copper in the left-hand pocket.” The trawl
was then put out, but the “ clairvoyant ” said that the
irons would not catch the body because it was too
deeply embedded. Consequently the crew did not
proceed with the trawling, and the boat drifted up
to the Bridge. On the way up the “clairvoyant” was
asked if she could see any other bodies. She replied
that she could not. She was then asked if she saw
any between the Bridge and Broughty Ferry, and she
said “ No.” I then asked her if there were any in the
debris of the Bridge, and her answer was, “ Yes ;
there are about twenty.” I did not ask her to indi¬
cate the precise spot where the bodies were lying, and
she did not say whether they were together or apart.
Myself and the crew were dispirited at this want of
success—I mean because we did not bring any bodies
to the surface. I then gave up the search.
The Pall Mall Gazette of January 21st makes the
following comments on the above case :—
The employment last week of a clairvoyant to
discover the bodies of the victims of the Tay Bridge
disaster does not appear to have been rewarded by
success ; nor is the failure surprising to any but those
who have a profound belief in mesmeric powers.
An experiment, however, as singular, if not more so,
was, according to the Annual. Register of 1767,
tried in April of that year at Newbury, in Berk¬
shire, with the view of discovering the body of a
child drowned in the River Kennet, and strange to
say it answered the purpose. At the inquest held
on the body it was stated “ that after diligent search
58
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 30, 1880.
had been made in the river for the child with no
favourable result, a twopenny loaf with a quantity
of quicksilver put into it was set floating from the
place where the child, it was supposed, had fallen in,
which steered its course down the river upwards of
half a mile, before a great number of spectators,
when the body, happening tc lie on the contrary
side of the river, the loaf suddenly tacked about and
swam across the river, and gradually sank near the
child, when the child and loaf were immediately
brought up with grapples ready for that purpose.”
SPIRITUALISM AND RAILWAYS.
fFrom “ The Railway Service Gazette? Jan. 23, 1880.^
English railwaymen are not in the habit of look¬
ing for supernatural aid in discharge of their duties,
but in America it would seem that the spirits of
departed pointsmen are not above giving a word of
warning to a comrade on earth. The following
story was communicated to the Hartford (Connec¬
ticut) Times:—
“ I met Mr. William D. Hilton, of Providence, the
other day. He used to be president of the Provi¬
dence and Worcester Railroad, and he told me some
rather odd experiences of his own, which he gave me
free permission to publish. I hardly remember how the
conversation drifted from business to Spiritualism, but
it so happened ; and with some considerable animation
Mr. Hilton advocated his personal belief and opinions,
founded, as he declares, upon the testimony of his
own ears and eyes. Believing that any stories of the
phenomena of Spiritualism, which are authentic, so
far as the undoubted veracity of the narrator is con¬
cerned, will prove interesting to your readers, I give
you, as exactly as possible, a transcript of this rather
extraordinary conversation:—
“c I think the most remarkable instance of super¬
natural interference for the benefit of humanity
which I have personal knowledge of,’ said Mr. Hilton,
* occurred when I was in the freight department of
the Providence and Worcester Railroad. As the
tracks entered the depot here, some few rods up the
road, there was a combination of switches, which, if
covered by a standing train, could not be rearranged,
so that a down train would, unless signalled to stop,
inevitably rush directly on to whatever stood in the
way. One night the freight train, which always
arrived in time to take its changes, and get out of
the way before the Shore Line express should arrive,
was late.
“ ‘ There were but twenty-five minutes to make all
arrangements and clear the track. This was no
unusual occurrence, and as the signal red light at the
masthead was up and brightly burning, there was no
apparent danger, or anything to produce the slightest
nervousness. The delays very frequently occurred,
and were provided for by the signal. I remember
very distinctly, however, that on this occasion I walked
out to the very end of the depot platform, and that I
suddenly heard in my ear these words, twice repeated,
and with impressive distinctness, “ Hilton, the light
will go out! Hilton, the light will go out! ” The
sound was so positive, and struck me with such
strange power, that I instantly looked at my watch,
saw that the Shore Line express was due in three
minutes, grabbed the red lantern on the last car of
)j the freight train, and ran up the track with all the
\ | speed of which I was capable. Along I fairly flew,
)| impelled by some strange intuition that there was
] danger, and never questioning for an instant, as I ran,
11 why I was running or what I was to do. Arrived at
|| the first end of the curve, near the Corliss engine
>| works, I stopped, and, for an instant, turned and
| looked back at the red light. It was burning, but in
)| a second it fluttered a little, and suddenly went out.
11 A world of emotions then seemed to rush through my
)j mind, for the light of the oncoming express already
(| illuminated the rails. I swung my lantern round and
)]? round, shouted, and danced up and down in my
terrible anxiety. It seemed a thousand years before
j I heard the whistle for “ down brakes.,,
“ ‘ The fate of that crowded train, the horrible
)j telescoping of the cars, as they would inevitably
(| crush into that solid freight train, seemed to rise like
H a vision of Hades before me. But at last the engine
\! was stopped. Without indicating to him his previous
danger, I informed the engineer that the signal had
(i gone out, and that I was stationed to warn him, and
/! started back to the depot. When I got to the
(| switch I found the switchman running round and
)! round it, almost mad with terror, for he could not
\| light the treacherous lantern, and had anticipated a
?j horrible disaster. When he saw me, and heard that
i | all was safe, he put his arms about my neck and he
)i —we—well, he cried like a child, and I believe I
U offered up a prayer of praise and thanksgiving. I
) j immediately established a series of three lights as
Si signals, so that nothing of the kind could possibly
occur again.
“‘We examined the light, and could see no
) I possible reason why it should have gone out. It was
\ full of oil, with a perfect wick, and there was no
/j wind blowing, although, if there had been, it should
s| have remained burning, as it had before through
) i many a storm. Now, what was it that spoke in my
Si ear ? What was it that forced me to save that train ?
j i There were ordinarily but two passenger cars on the
j! express, and this night there were seven all full.’”
| MADAME ENAULT.
SI Some interest exists as to the movements in Eng-
l\ land of this extraordinary woman, and the last we
(i heard of her was published a little while ago in the
> | shape of the following antagonistic article from The
SI British Medical Journal:—
\ | A singular account of the doings of a female
)j charlatan, styling herself Madame Enault, who has
Sj been making a great stir in Birkenhead, has been
) | forwarded to us. It is alleged that Madame Enault,
S| who has been in Rome, where her father is a physi-
(j cian, has studied medicine in Paris, Italy, and Bel-
>| gium, and possesses the medical diplomas of these
<1 countries. She has, it is announced, practised in
) | Rome for eighteen years; and, adopting the some-
(\ what remarkable rdlc of a female Dulcamara, has
j travelled throughout France, Austro-Hungary, and
) | the southern parts of America, reaping, we are told,
| i both praise and profit by her labours. It may, how-
| ever, be noted that in her foreign travels the lady
11 was accompanied by her husband and by a “ Dr. Paul
Duflotthe latter is now with her in England, and,
JAN. 30, 1880. THESPIUlTtJALlST. 59
the same account informs us, has on several occasions |
proved himself an excellent substitute for Madame j>
Enault when she was indisposed. At Birkenhead i
this lady, who talks little or no English, but converses !
in French or Italian, has taken up her abode at one of |)
the principal hotels. There she receives patients jv
afflicted with such ailments as she undertakes to j
cure, but which, we are oddly informed, must not j/
be of an internal nature. Her charge is five shillings j)
a visit, and she declines to receive more than fifty |)
patients at a time ; but the account from which we |\
gather these details states that on the occasion of
the reporter’s visit four hundred persons were besieg- I j
ing the door. Her diagnosis would seem to be ex- {)
tremely rapid; for we are told that she can invariably h
“tell at a glance” what to do with her patients, and j
what they require. As, however, her materia medica, H
as will be seen later on, is of a somewhat limited j(
character, this perhaps is not so much to be won- |)
dered at. Not content, however, with her main j<
practice, Madame Enault takes her “ rides abroad ” to j>
heal the sick. This is done in true Dulcamara style : i(
a large carved, gilded, and decorated chariot, drawn ||
by three horses abreast, fantastically caparisoned, |<
receives the lady, as well as eight bandsmen, who are
disposed of in the back part of the chariot. Attired j<
in ruby silk and cloth of gold, a tiara of pearls and !>
silver on her head, and attended by M. Duflot, she f|
drives down to the ground selected for her opera- j)
tions, where she covers her gorgeous attire with a K
professional mackintosh apron with pockets, arranges j)
instruments, lint, and other necessaries, and then (
announces her willingness to extract teeth without J
fee or reward. On the occasion described, we are told j
that, for more than an hour, she was extracting teeth j)
as fast as people could open their mouths to receive j\
the forceps. All this time an enormous mass of patients j /
are waiting their turn, including poor creatures I \
afflicted with deafness, blindness, rheumatism,tumours, )
and various enlargements of the head and neck. j\
Now comes the tug of war, or rather the means of )
providing its sinews. Madame begins a speech in K
French, which is interpreted sentence by sentence as I?
she goes on. In it she vaunts the “ Indian Malachite, I (
contained in small bottles, as a cure for toothache, k
inflammation of the lungs, loose teeth, headache, I)
neuralgia, dizziness, cuts, burns, scratches, rheu- H
matism, earache,” and hoc genus omne. Nor does |;
she content herself with simply vaunting its virtues ; |(
she borrows a knife, cuts her finger, places on it |)
some lint steeped in “Malachite,” and in a few |(
minutes shows the cut to be quite healed. She j)
then proceeded to make an apparently lame man j<
walk; removed a tumour from a man’s head, after ;>
an application of “ Malachite,” to the intense ad- ! (
miration of the crowd, who, it seems, were full of j)
tales of wonderful cures effected by Madame Enault. j(
And now came the moment to reap the harvest j/
produced by all these gratis wonders. Hundreds \
of buyers are eager for a bottle of “Indian Mala- |)
chite,” at the low price of two shillings ; and to show |\
the immense extent to which this so-called remedy is j)
sold and these poor people are duped, the manufac- j \
turers of the bottles in which it is put up state that |)
they have delivered upwards of fifty thousand of them [a
to Madame Enault during the last few weeks. i)
EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS BY MARY
CARPENTER.
“ A FEW nights ago I lay in feverish wakefulness.
My friend and valued fellow-worker, , was struck
with sharp illness. I dared not pray for his recovery,
for we know not what we ask. My Father knows
what is best; I left all to Him; and then it seemed
to me that my spirit reposed in Him with a sort of
intensity of nearness, of satisfied loving union, which
words cannot describe. Those few moments were
heaven, which could be nothing more than this. I
desire nothing else. Oh, Father, I thank Thee above
all for such moments, which make me know the holi¬
ness of my inmost spirit.”
“I am now alone on this bright Sunday morning,
and thankful to enjoy my own company—i.e., the
‘ cloud of witnesses’ and guardian angels who are ever
near me, unless dispelled by some disturbing element.
I am beginning to realise this kind of existence, and
to hope and believe that my own spirit will become
freer, and stronger, and more beautiful if left for a
time to its own workings.
“ I cannot help throwing myself into a strange kind
of sympathy with those whom I feel bound to me,
and am absolutely tortured with diseases of their
spirits, just as we saw in Paris a somnambulist over
whose face passed a painful cloud when put en
rapport with a person who had a disease of which we
bystanders had no knowledge.”—Extracts from
letters hy Mary Carpenter, sister of Dr. W. B.
Carpenter. “ Life and Work of Mary Carpenter.”
Macmillan: 1879.
MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA WITHOUT A
CABINET.
BY HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD, J.P.
On Tuesday last I had a sitting with Miss Katie
Cook at Mr. Blackburn’s room in Museum-street,
and owing to the failure of other sitters I found
myself alone with Miss Cook and her mother, so that
I had a much better opportunity of observing than
I ever had before. Miss Cook lay down on the sofa
with her left to the wall, and the light behind her,
without any sort of screen or curtain around her. I
sat in front of the sofa four or five feet distant, and
when the light was turned down could just see the
white woollen she wore round her neck. Lily seemed
to grow up beside the sofa, appearing at first as a
short, white, indistinct figure, afterwards growing to
about Miss Cook’s height. The light was not enough
to distinguish her features. My main object was to
have hold of Miss Cook and of Lily at the same
moment, and of this I obtained one clear experience.
I placed my left hand on Miss Cook’s right shoulder,
when Lily took hold of my right hand with both
hers, and gave me complete conviction that she was
distinct from the person on whose shoulder my hand
was placed. Miss Cook then stood up by the sofa,
and by bringing her between me and the light, I
saw her outline distinctly, while at the same time I
saw Lily standing beside her, a little more to my
right, as an indistinct white figure of about the same
size. In this attitude they remained for some time,
so as to give me a good opportunity of observing
them.
Queen Anne-slreet, Cavendish-square, London,
January 27 th, 1880.
60
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 30, 1880.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 6s. Cd. post free
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V: —Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—^Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII.—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
• • Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylio Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt In Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XIIPhenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration-Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases —Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 38, British Museum-street, London,
INFOKMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
) I > , . ; '
! \ In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
I \ I civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou-
|) I sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out-
i; i lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
I) i ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth,
i (| The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
[y Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
i (I investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
i) i professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
|)i true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
I) | were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
| (i presence of mediums without being touched.
K Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
| ( I Scienr:, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
! ^ i thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
\ | house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
{) | Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
i) i professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
j) i Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
k; forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
j \; stranger to the family present.
\)\ The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
I y| science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
!) i untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
i /1 private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
k| by any member of the family. At the present time there are
i (| only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe-
| \ | nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
] (; tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
m be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
| | great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro-
| > | tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
HI the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
j (i which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
j < i duped who trust in worthless authorities.
| (I One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
j \; ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
! \ j new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc-
|)| tions, obtains the phenomena :—
i) l 1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup-
I (i tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
u j 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
i (i the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
i\! to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
I) | wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
j) | top surface. “Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
I) j little importance. Any table will do.
|(| 3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
1(1 but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
]<| 4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
| (| general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
Kj should be of a frivolous nature.
!f| 5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
II feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
|) | indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
1(1 6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
1(1 to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
| (I the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
| \ j three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
I > j “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
;)! Tf three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I speak the
!)! letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
i([ to the letter you want, and spell us out a message?” Should
i (j three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
Kj from this time an intelligent system of communication is
j (i established.
m 7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
;) i trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
Ijj messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits.
j)j usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
|(i objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
i(j the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
Ki to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
HI or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
Ki undeniable proof.
j.) 8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
j) j because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
! (j sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi-
i (; tive to mesmeric influences.
V Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
Kj not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
j j week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
p[ stimulus-of mediumship altogether.
Jan/SO, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST
Cloth, small 8vo, price Ss.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conelusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers .No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
T^ALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
JL' in Spiritualism, by Christian Eeimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
•p ESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA
XL OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-i’ecording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for IJd.; or six copies post free for fid.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN-
GER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
of the current year, even to the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
TDRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCLX
X> TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Groat Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S. C.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepini£re, Paris.
npHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, (fee., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
I5s, per annum, The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 3s. fid. Imperial Svo Cloth, red edges. Post free1
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon),’’ and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Morryat.
XVJIL—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wunnbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Siance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position .in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII. — Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislifigbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. Ry Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 88, British
Museum-street London, W.O
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown Svo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
iii
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—Tire Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? — Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Hall — W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier's Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook's Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr, Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W, H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rano, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby,
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII:—THe Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss —Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The fcFacts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. fid.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS EBOM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
PART I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
PART II,
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie's Spirit Song”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C.
REYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Sociele Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payak \e to
Leymarie.
IV
THE .SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 30, 18 80.
Accidental Indigestion.
BEl’OEE AND ANTED, Tip!
Christmas ; Pudding,
USE i
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a Bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Bipe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation,Vomiting, Thirst, cite.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
TANO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
JDi Bev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
.used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verifled
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
QTIMULANTS AND INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXEBOISE frequently DE-
BANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FBUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FBUIT SALT would
hot he without it upon any consideration, they having
reoeived so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
'l he Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c,, &c., use
ENO’S PETIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
XA. FBUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value lit keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
TTAGGED, WEARY, AND WORN
•JE OUT 111 Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FRUIT SALT is tho best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FBUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
TANG'S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Ruedela
_ILi Paix, Paris.—-A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which le did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
he without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.’’—M.
Bkral.
TANG’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer-
’T_J ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENO’S FBUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford."
QUCCESS IN LIFE.”—A new in-
vention is brought before the public and com-
maufls success. A score of alominable iiuilatioifs are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, ip
copying the original closely enough tp deceive the
■public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—ADAMS.
TESTIMONIAL for Dr. MONCK.
APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS.
Dear Friends,
Fully sensible that too many appeals have been
made on behalf of Mediums, we feel that Dr. Monek’s
.case presents one for a special claim upon the gene¬
rosity of Spiritualists.
As one of the Pioneers of our belief, he has not only
spent his private means, but also his very life; for in
furthering research by means of the marvellous
materialisations in the light through his mediumship,
his; health, already exhausted by bitter persecution,
has completely given way.
For nearly two years he has been cared for by kind
friends, hut it is now his desire to return to the work
so dear to him as soon as his health permits, and
especially is it his wish to work as an unpaid
medium, to do which some temporary help is now
needed.
The undersigned earnestly appeal to all Spiritualists
to assist Dr. Monck in his present necessity, and to
subscribe liberally to the Testimonial now under their
care.
One friend has offered to give £20 if £80 more is
subscribed in sums of £10 and £5 each. We think this
challenge should be accepted, but wo hope small sums
will not be withheld.
W. P. Adshead, Belper.
Dr. Brown, Burnley.
James Burns, Southampton-row.
Alexander Caldeu, 1, Hereford-square, S.W.
Prof. B. Fuiese, Breslau.
A. J. Oranstoun, Meggen, Lucerne.
J. H. Oledstanes, Merignac.
Baron Dirckinck Holm feed, Holstein.
Sir O. Isham, Bart., Northampton.
Bev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Kilburn.
Wm. Oxley, Manchester,
E. Dawson Rogers, Finchley.
Morell Theobald, Hon. Sec.
J. Pemberton Turner, Leamington.
Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P., Queen Anne-street.
Prof. F. Zollner, Leipzig.
All remittances should be sent to
Mouell Theobald.
62, Qranville-park, Blaokheath.
Subscriptions already Received.
£ s. d.
Mr. and Mrs. Oranstoun, Lucerne   10 0 0
Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston    1  10 0 0
W. P. Adshead, Esq., Belper     6 5 0
William Tebb, Esq., Albert-road  5 5 0
H.B.H. Prince G     5 0 0
Alexander Oalder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square 5 0 0
Dr. J. Dixon, Great Ormond-street  5 0 0
F. G. S., per A. Oalder, Esq.    2 2 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart      2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P    2 2 0.
J. Pemberton Turner, Esq   2 2 0
Morell Theobald, Esq  2 2 0
F. Myers, Esq.       200
Two Friends      2 0 0
Dr. Brown, Burnley    110
Wm. Oxley, Esq      110
Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A  1 1 0
Mrs. Stone, Shute Haye  110
J. B. Stones, Esq   110
Dr. Stowell, Brighton    1 10
James Bowman, Glasgow    1 0 0
Miss Douglas, South Audley-street  10 0
B. Q-essler, Basle     1 0 0
A Friend, per B. Qeasier    10 0
Joseph Swinburne, Esq    10 0
A. Tod, Peebles     10 0
Eev. W.Miall, Hackney    .;... 10 0
Miss Ottley, Belgravia  10 0
Dr. Wyld  ;    10 0
John A. Hoover, Philadelphia   0 6 0
A. P., Edinburgh      0 10 0
W. B. Tomlinson         0 10 0
T. Farrell   0 10 0
J. Thompson          0 10 0
Small Sums     1 13 0
Second List.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory    10 0
Prof, Cassal, Lon. University     lit)
A. J. Oranstoun, Esq., second donation ... 2 0 0
F. W. Peroiva), Esq., Savile Club   110
The Yen. Archdeacon T.      10 0 0
Herr Oscar von Hoffman, Leipzig   8 0 0
J. Clark Ferguson  j  Q 10 0
Dr. Kennedy.-..,..      26 0 0
R. Glendinning, Birkdale     1 10
“ One who Wishes She Could do More ”  0 10 0
George Tommy, Bristol     0 10 6
Oapt. Oopperthwaite, Malton 6 0 Q
Capt. James, Oower-stregt    11 0
P.O. Order from Germany....    10 0
Other Small Sums and Stamps   0 9 6
Price 5s. Or. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
■ marked ■ •' ENO'S FRUIT SALT.'' Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6tf.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
ai ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS
Hatch am, London, S.E,
. “M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." , s. d
The-Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . 7 6
The Teacher. II. > - „ ... 7 6
The Seer. - „ III. -,|.... . .76
The .Reformer,,,. IV. . i> ' . • • 7 6
The Thinker. „ V. , ' '• . . 7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . .... 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People . . . ... . . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence' . . 2 6
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. : \
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY!S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE-
FOB TWO GUINEAS PEB MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Bent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBEOK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT; Man’ager
Southampton-!) uildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1861.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed -on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
Tho Bank also receives money oh Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its "Customers, free 'of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection."of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons ; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, oh’application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFL’, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
January, 1880 ] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
Spiritualism in some of its Religious /Aspects; A
Comparison and a Contrast: M.A. (Oxohj—Curious
Reasoning of a “Master in Israel”: A. M. H. W.—
Spiritualism and Positivism in Relation to Problems
of Government: G. F. Green—Spiritualism in China :’
Dr. Nicholls—Spiritual Evolution: M.A.. (Oxon)—
Popular Errors and Objections to Spiritualism Ex
plained and Answered : J. S. Faimer—William Lloyd
Garrison and the Bev. Odin Ballon: T. S.—Notes and
Gleanings: Examine Yourselves; California Changes;
Spiritualism Capturing the Church ; Opponents Over¬
come ; “ What is our Nature ? ’’ The Uses of Spirit¬
ualism.—A Christmas Carol: J. T. Markley.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW: Hay Nisbet & Oo. 62 Ropework-lane.
CONTENTS.
Spiritual Revelation   49
An Atheist’s Address Above the Grave of a Chris¬
tian      50
Ancient Opinions upon Psychic Bodies. By C.- C,
Massey       ........A,...’ 51
Unconscious Cerebration?      53
The Carnival. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.,
Author of Letters to Miss Martineau     54:
The Iron Pen. By Henry W. Longfellow   54
The Reality of Apparitions. By William Sharpe,
M.D...   j   , 65
Spontaneous Psychological Phenomena. By Eliza
Boucher :—A Death Omen Apparition ;— A
Headless Apparition Appealing to Two Senses 56
Lady Chatterton’s Vision   ;   57
Clairvoyance and the Recovery of Bodies  57
Spiritualism and Railways      58
Madame Enault     58
Extracts from Letters by Mary Carpenter.,,,..,  69
Materialisation Phenomena Without a Cabinet,
By Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P,   59
Paragraph:—An Essay op Spiritual Evolution ... 50
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveuidoe and Co
at the Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents?
High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, Loudon
E.O
