Registered as a •‘Newspaper,
SX® f^YdSoxocUdait ^Cis^Xci^.
#lb^l lpApp$i| toiflj Spxikalxsm m <§xmt §nfaht»
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C, PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG; 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: g6, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal"
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
LONDON: FRIDAY, JULY IB, 1877.
No. 255.—(VOL. XL—No. 2.)
arontents*
Review:—History of Materialism; and Criticism of its
Present Importance. By Frederick Albert Lange’... ... 13
Test Seances with Mr. Eglinton. By T. L. Nichols " 13
Seances with Messrs. Williams and Fletcher. By George
C. Joad    14
Phrenology and Physiognomy. By the Countess of Caith¬
ness  .'. ...   1.5
Spirit Form Manifestations. By Enrico Rondi   ... 16
Private Experiments ... B      17
The Decease of Mr. Robert Dale Owen 18
Spiritualism in Manchester. By Charles Blackburn 18
The Untrustworthiness of Dr. Carpenter’s Statements
about Clairvoyance  19
Correspondence:—Materialisation of Spirit Faces, No. 4—
Incubi and Succubee—Spiritualism in Australia—The
Painting Mediumship of David Duguid   21
Magic and Law     23
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the
Council   23
Poetry:—Cleopatra Dying  24
On the Clairvoyance of Alexis Didier. By Captain John
James    24
Paragraphs:—Mr. Slade’s offer to Professor Lankester, 15 ;
Emerson on Demonology, 15; The Progress of Spiritual¬
ism, 17; A Seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory's, 18;
The Stoppage of Abuse of Spiritualism, 18; The Spiritual
Scientist     ...   23
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published, their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;\His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay ; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet; the Hon. J.L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. 0. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon.. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India) ;
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fahyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr.! J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, XOs. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocea, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Go. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
London, E.C.
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. Chas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
1, Castledine-road, Anerley, S.E.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for July, 1877.
Friday, 13#A.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Tuesday, TUh.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Soiree Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
The Experimental Research Committee will meet every
Friday in the month, at 6.30 p.m.
SEAN CES.
Physical seances for Enquirers are for the present held
every Friday evening at 8 o’clock. Medium, Mr. O. E.
Williams: Applications for seats at these seances must in
all cases he made in advance. Tickets to Members, Is. each.
A Trance seance will be held every Tuesday evening, at 8
o’clock, during the month, except on Tuesday, July 10th;
Medium, Mr. J, W. Lawrence.
E. KISL1NGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, LOIJGlHBOROTJGH-itOAD-NORTH, BRIXTON.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, HON. SE0.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.
SOCIABLE EYENINGS.
Every Monday Evening throughout the year, at 8 p.m., at the
Langham Hall, Great Portland-street, for the benefit of Mrs.
Weldon’s Orphanage. The first Concert took place on Monday
evening, November 6, 1876.
Stalls (a limited number), 5s. each; centre seats, area (a
limited number), 2s. 6d. each. Admission, Is. Transferable
tickets, for a series of three months: stalls, £2 2s.; centre
seats, area, £1 Is.; unreserved seats, 10s. 6d. Mrs. Weldon
earnestly solicits subscriptions, donations, or old clothes
towards the increase of her Orphanage, which she started
eight years ago, and which has, till now, been supported
entirely by herself. Mrs. Weldon has been obliged, for want
of a larger income, to refuse as many as five forsaken children
in one week. Tickets may be obtained, and subscriptions,
donations, &c., received by Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, London, W.C.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
(As exhibited at the Caxton celebration), is a self-inking one
and can easily be worked by a child of ten. Ils work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “ HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens of type, &c., &c., post free 13 stamps,
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co., Patentees.
22, Liverpool Street, London, E.O,
A “Model” Press on view at Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Great Russell street, W.C.
Price from 30s. to £9 10s.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pear’s, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCR0FT, Manager.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
RALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance-with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
C0DN0IL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton
Temporary Rooms—72, Navarino-road, Dalston,
London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.46 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have) the privilege of attending, the •public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines aro
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
  E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
WILLIAM FLETCHER, THE
• AMERICAN SPEAKER, WILL GIVE HIS LEC¬
TURE, “A Half Hour from Alexandria to Jerusalem,” at
Langham Hall, August 6th, in connection with Mrs. Weldon’s
regular Concert.
T~HE QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF
SCIENCE for July, 1877, price 5s., edited by William
Crookes, F.R.S., &c., contains a review of Dr. Carpenter’s
* Mesmerism, Spiritualism, cfc.,” by Alfred Russel Wal¬
lace. London: 3, Horse-shoe-court Ludgate-hill, E.O. 1
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince's Salon, and the Duke's Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with Ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
HATCHARD’S DUPLEX FUNERAL CARS
(Used open or closed), Silver-mounted, Violet or Oak Panels,
Plated Harness, &c.
Inventors, Patentees and Builders,
S. HATOHARD & 00.,
FUNERAL FURNISHERS, &0.
Chief Office:—
47, CRAWFORD ST., BRYANSTON SQ., W.
Funerals conducted in accordance with the views of Spirit¬
ualists. Coloured Palls supplied. Personal attendance at any
address on receipt of letter or telegram.
11
THE SPIKITUALIST,
July 13, 1877
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., l, Hereford-square, 'West Brompton, S.W,
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Ht'nywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jeacken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place. W.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-yilla, Church-end, Finchley,N.
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
8peer, Stanhope Tenipleman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Blnney, F, A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Obersteln-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end,Finchley, N.
Strawhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Gxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
W hite, J., Hemlock-nouse .Leeds. ’
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., careof A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square,‘West Brompton, S.W. •
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq,, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
AH’. J. E. Andre. Mr. H. Cook.1 Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksa&of, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Ruasell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S-A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson,Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. j. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes,Esq., Merignac, Gironde, Erance.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2.Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Author Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.s.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Unipn, 67, Rue du Midi,
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Baris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., RosehiU, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
MclHe. Huet, 178, Rue St. Honor*, Paris.
W. S.-Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah,' U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Gochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Soaettes.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. 0. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 84, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torree-Solanot.
Sociedad;Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor RefUgio T. Gonzalez, 7, Galle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
GRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
will be published as soen as Mrs. "W eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolnor, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Oh. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Mabshall & Co.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE RELIGION OF JESUS compared with
THE CHRISTIANITY OF TO-DAY. By Fbedebick
A. Binney.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE FOOD THAT WE LIVE ON. In¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.  
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every mouth, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, yia
Bogiuo, No. 23.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TRANCE MEDIUM,
14, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, W.O.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. OLIVE Las a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctually. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. j. j. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E. 
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.  
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Speaker,
• will deliver Orations and Poems to public or
private audiences in any part of the United Kingdom. For all
particulars address to him at Eagle House, 14, Sill wood-road
Brighton.
TL. HENLY, Mesmerist, 5, St. James’s-
• terrace, Notting-hill. “ Your treatment of insanity is
excellent.”—George Wyld, M.D., 12, Great Oumberland-place,
Hyde-park, to whom reference is permitted.
MRS. PARKER Lectures on all Social
Reform Subjects, and attends Drawing Room Dis¬
cussions. Now at Pekin House, 11, Elizabeth-place, Jersey,
Hours from 12 to 5.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &c. Address, “Spiritualist," 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo •
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, price 4d.
Clairvoyance, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
A CATALOGUE of a most extraordinary
callection of six hundred works on Alchemy, Appari¬
tions, Astrology, Chiromancy, Dreams, Geomancy, Mesmerism,
Physiognomy, Psychology, The Rosicrucians, Freemasons, and
Mystics, Sorcery and Witchcraft, with some curious miscel¬
laneous books, will be sent post free on receipt of six penny
stamps, which will be returned to purchasers by John Wilson,
12, King William-street, Charing-cross.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300fw Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6d.,pogt free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTBIBDTION AT POBLIO MEETINOS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
r The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form Circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ’’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald MdTZE. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Brancn Office.
VOJL.UJWE fJjLEVE^. KuMBER TWO.
LONDON. FRIDAY. JULY 13th, 1877.
History of Materialism; and Criticism of its present Im- j
portance. By Frederick Albert Lange. (Triibner and |
Co., Lndgate-hill.)
■ A translation of Professor Lange’s celebrated book is now |
before us in the shape of the first volume of the English and j
Foreign Philosophical Library. The work is learned, concise, j
and accurate. Unlike most English writers on Greek phi- j
losophy, the translator has read his original authors with j
care, can quote them correctly, and makes the most of them, j
Imaginary Aristotles have so often appeared in books j
written by authors who have evoked quotations from the |
philosopher from the depths of their own consciousness, that j
it is quite a relief to see a book on whose footnotes the j
readers can rely, as being perfectly accurate. Of course the j
whole object of the book is to exalt the school of the j
Epicureans at the expense of that of the Aristotelians. To I
this we have little objection, as a mere forensic point, if only j
the author could succeed in identifying the Epicureans j
(Spiritualists in fact if not in name) with the materialistic j
school which culminated in Gassendi and Hobbes. We fail j
to see the instant when this elusive transition is effected, as j
we fail to detect the moment when the conjurer passes the j
pea from one thimble to another. Much cloud is thrown over i
the argument by what is called Averroism being brought j
upon the scene.
Attention should be drawn to the passage on page 238, in j
which the opinions of the veiled butcher Melanchthon are j
quoted. He considered that the material and gradually re- I
fined u spiritus ” is the immediate bearer of influences, which j
in theory should be purely spiritual, but which in fact are j
represented by this controversial writer in very material j
fashion. Thus the divine spirit mingles with the vital and I
animal parts of man; but if a devil has his abode in the !
heart, he blows upon the spirits and brings them into con- j
fusion. Professor Lange goes on to say, <{ To really logical j
thought the gulf is of course equally great between the super¬
sensible and the finest particle of the finest matter, or the j
whole globe. The spirits of the modern 4 Spiritualists ’ of j
England and America are therefore quite right when they j
shake their believers roughly by the coat-sleeve, or when they j
career around the room with heavy furniture. ”
It is an easy matter to have small jokes at Spiritualists ; |
but if we take the trouble to analyse this paragraph we shall
see that the 44finest particle of the finest matter” is of j
itself incomparably greater than the atomic amount of j
sense which may possibly be extracted from it. 44 Really
logical thought” may, of course, be taken as convertible
with the author’s own thought. The first sentence merely
conveys the idea which is scarcely novel, and which no one
will contradict, that differences of degree are not differences
of kind, or, in other words, that the Relative is not the |
Absolute. The second sentence loses its point when it is !
noticed that it is not the 44 believers ” alone who are wit- j
nesses to manifestations. That a spirit of jocularity should j
always move into an Agnostic’s empty brain when Spirit- j
ualism is mentioned, is a fact which merely indicates that j
Cowper was right when he spoke of the
,fLoud laugh that showed the vacant mind.”
There is nothing more comical in a piece of heavy furniture
being moved than in a ponderous German professor making
a light and airy joke. The sentiment of incompatibility
may be aroused, but not the sentiment of denial. Of the
44 Spiritual” phenomenon we may say it is a fact, for we |
have seen it ourselves; of the more comic phenomenon we |
can only say that although we would not have believed it !
we see it here in print. 1
But though in this passage there is ground for contro-
| versy, all those Spiritualists who wish to become acquainted
| with the higher facts of the science should carefully study
| Professor Lange’s book as the most exhaustive treatise on
the history of mental philosophy which has ever been
published in the English language. This excellent transla¬
tion of a solid work is to be commended. It was much
wanted, and will be completed in two more volumes.
TEST SEANGES WITH MR. EGLINTON.
BY T. L. NICHOLS.
Your readers are aware that on the 1st of June Willie
| Eglinton came to Aldwyn Tower, Malvern, very ill. He was
| so much changed by his illness, that when I met him at the
| Paddington station, I did not know him till he spoke to me.
| For two or three months he had not been able to sit for any
manifestations. In the last week of June he had so far
recovered, that we had some shortbut very satisfactory seances^
though the power was soon exhausted. On July 1st we had
a seance under strict test conditions, some account of which,
I think, may be of interest. At our short seances the voice
of 44 Joey” had been firm, distinct, and loud, and there was
very acute intelligence. To prove that the voice was not that
of the medium, Mrs. Nichols mixed some dark wine with
water, and Willie, though in deep trance, filled his mouth
| full of this liquid. I turned off the light, and Joey instantly
spoke in the best voice. I lighted the gas and the sleeping
medium ejected the large mouthful of wine and water into a
basin. I then covered Willie’s lips with gummed paper,
which I made adhere tightly to both lips. The voice
came firm and full the moment the light was turned out.
Quickly turning up the gas, I found the paper quite fast, and
| so dried that it was difficult to remove it. After this we had
| some slate-writing in the usual way. These experiments were
| made in a small room, the door locked, and no one present
| but Mrs. Nichols and myself. The next day we added
| another witness, a young officer of the English army. We
| four sat around a small table in the light. A large musical
| box was placed under the table. Mrs. Nichols secured Willie’s
j feet, and all our feet were in contact. Mrs. Nichols held
| Willie’s left hand, and Lieutenant I. held his right, and all
our hands were joined. With feet and hands thus secured,
the musical box under the table was wound up, and played,
and stopped, and played again at our request. Any number
of notes were struck that we asked for. First three notes,
then two, and so on, were struck as we requested.
Next day we sat again. The voice of 44 Joey ” was heard
firm and full as we turned off the light. It was simultaneous
with the darkness. After a little conversation, we were
allowed a faint light Mrs. Nichols held both Willie’s
hands in her right hand; all the other hands were joined.
In this position, a hand appeared near to Willie, and went
over to Lieut. I., and touched him in many places; the
musical box was opened, and a large slate was brought from
a distant part of the room, and thrown heavily upon the
table, by the spirit hand.
When the musical box was being played, and stopped, as
| we requested, Mrs. Nichols was anxious to know how it was
I done. I suggested that 44 Joey” stopped it, as one of us
! might have done, with his finger.” 44Joey” said that on
I this occasion he did so; but he said that when the power was
| full, it was stopped by a wave of a force under his control,
| and could be done as well when the box was shut as when
open.
We have now seen various test phenomena. In addition
! to the above, in a brilliant light, and in the presence of
I another competent witness, we have had slate-writing, in the
1 usual way, and writing done under the table-cover upon the
14
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 13, 1877.
table. This writing was in Greek, Italian, and French. Of ||l
these the medium knows only a little school French. | j
Hands have been formed in our sight, when all our hands m
have been joined, and we have had gentle taps and hard blows . | |
from them. Joey has played a good deal on a mouth organ, j j
and the music is very fine, and would be creditable to any j j
performer on this little instrument. ! j
Though Willie Eglinton’s health is not yet restored, he is | !
much better, and in a reasonable time we may hope to see f
him well.' As it is, the manifestations could hardly be more j j
satisfactory, though the seances are necessarily short. Mrs. | |
Nichols is making careful records, and from time to time | j
Willie’s friends shall hear of his progress in health, and of the j j
resulting phenomena. The pure air of Malvern seems to be as | |
favourable to producing the phenomena, as’ it is to the health j j
of invalids. The very genial character of those who have ! j
taken part in the seances, their fairness, and freedom from j j
theories and preconceived opinions, and their obedience to ||
the directions given by the spirits, all have conduced, we are | |
told by “ Joey,” to our having the most satisfactory seances, j |
The tests we have used, the character of the phenomena, j j
and the nature of the communications have, I believe, per- j j
fectly satisfied all the six persons who have attended these j i
stances of the perfect good faith of the medium and the verity j j
and importance of the manifestations. I I
Malvern, July 9th. jjj
SEANCES WITH MESSES. WILLIAMS AND FLETCHER. j j
BY GEORGE C. JOAD. ijj
Since my last communication I have attended four seances j j
with Messrs. Fletcher and Williams. On Thursday, 28th j j
ult., I went to Mr. Fletcher; on his becoming entranced, ! j
John King at once controlled him, and addressed me thus :— j j
“ I need hardly tell you that I did not repeat the sentence j j
correctly. I said, | You are a funny fellow,’ instead of 1 You j
are an odd fellow.’ The meaning was the same, but the word j
was different. Do you know why I changed it ? ” I replied j
that I supposed the exact word was forgotten. “No,” i
said he, “I altered it on purpose. If I had said it word j
for word, I should have had nothing to have remarked about j
now. I used a different word, so that I could tell you about | j
it afterwards, and use the right one.” John King then j
agreed to try to do two or three things at the seance I pro- I j
posed to attend the next day at the British National Asso- | j
ciation of Spiritualists. i i
On Friday, 29th ult., I attended a seance at the rooms of j j
the National Association ; the power was exceedingly weak, j j
and hardly any manifestations occurred. I believe, however, I j
that two distinct attempts were made to fulfil two of the f
promises given the day before, but from the want of power j j
I cannot be certain as to either. j I
On Tuesday, July 3rd, I had another sitting with Mr. j j
Fletcher at 12.30 o’clock. I also had an appointment with j
Mr. Williams for 2 o’clock on the same day. I had not, of j j
course, informed either medium of my arrangement with the j j
other. Mr. Fletcher was suffering from a severe cold, and | |
was longer than usual in becoming entranced. John King j j
controlled him and said, “ I know I shall have the pleasure j j
of meeting you again as soon as you leave here, and, there- j j
fore, I have made a great effort to speak to you now, for this j j
medium is not in good health; but I wish to come now, and j j
again later, as I knew you had arranged for this and I j j
wanted to do all I could to help.” Mr. Fletcher has informed ] j
me that John King has never controlled him except on the j j
occasions when he has sat with me. John King himself has j |
always spoken of Mr. Fletcher as “ this ” medium, and of j j
Mr. Williams as “ my ” medium. I said to John King, “I j j
have written several things down to ask if you could do them | I
when we next meet, they are as follows :— I I
“ 1st. Is it possible to answer the questions contained in j j
this envelope, which were not written by me, and the pur- j j
port of which I do not know?” Answer; “It is quite Jjj
impossible.” . II
“ 2nd. I have brought certain photographs with me. Can ! j
you separate the portraits of those persons who are still in j |
this life from those passed away?” “I will endeavour to j
do so.” . ! l
“ 3rd. Can you pick out the photograph of any particular j |
individual if I mention the name ?” “I will try.” il I
“ 4th. Can you or Peter unfasten the letter padlock I have
with me, and write down the word to which it is set?” “ I
don’t know, but will try also.”
“ 5th. Will you ever show me yourself and your medium
at the same moment ?” “ Yes.”
John King then made me a communication respecting
which he wished me to be for the present silent. It was
concerning a third person, and will be perfectly easy to
verify. I then asked him to give me his explanation as to
what is usually called “matter passing through matter.”
He gave me his ideas. I then asked him for some test of his
own choosing to prove his identity with the John King who
controls Mr. Williams. He replied, “We have had a con¬
versation as to matter passing through matter. I will repeat
that.” I requested him to say again what he had previously
stated, that I might write it down; this he did as follows :—
“ Matter passes through matter thus: we place a strong
power or battery on the opposite side of the wall, through
which we wish to pass an object; that power, as it were,
burns a hole through the wall, or better, compresses its
elements; after the object has passed through, they, by the
law of attraction, replace themselves.”
On leaving Southampton-row, I went almost directly to
Mr. Williams. The light was scarcely out when Peter began
to talk, and continued chattering almost uninterruptedly
during the seance. John King’s voice was soon heard, and
he began thus :—“ With regard to matter passing through
matter, what we do is this. We place, &c. ”—and he gave
me word for word what I had written down while with Mr.
Fletcher.
I then requested that the photographs might be separated.
This failed, and Peter could not undo the padlock. The
medium was then directed to go into the cabinet. Peter
again tried the photographs. I asked for one by name, and
for the portrait of the person I liked the best (there were
eight in all). Two were thrust into my hand. I at once
placed them in an inner pocket. Peter then partly mate¬
rialised, and showed me his light, and tried again at the
padlock, which was fastened to my chair on the side furthest
from the cabinet. From his voice he appeared to be low
down, as if kneeling on the floor ; the strap attached to the
padlock was pulled vigorously; he several times touched my
hand, which was on the seat of the chair; he talked the
whole time, abused the lock, and at last gave up the
attempt. Several times while this was going on I distinctly
heard the medium in the cabinet.
John King next appeared at the door of the cabinet with
his light, but he was not very clear, and he said that he could
not come out. Peter returned and produced spirit sparks. I
held up one finger close before my face, and asked him to
place a light upon it; something that felt like a finger was
placed on the tip of my own, and directly the contact took
place, a light appeared, without, however, communicating
any sensation of heat; it only lasted during contact. When
the spark was darting about the room, I requested Peter to
divide it into two, and then one again into two; this was
done, and there were three sparks in different places at the
same moment; they had exactly the same appearance as the
small fire-flys of southern Europe. John then came to say
“ Good-bye.” I asked him to write something before
leaving, and held out a card and pencil. These were taken, a
slight pause occurred, then Peter said John had gone, and
he wished me “ Good-bye.” When light was introduced I
found “ I am here.—J. K.,” written on my card, and on
taking the two photographs from 'my pocket, saw that one
was the portrait of the person whose name I had mentioned ;
and with regard to the other, Peter had been perfectly
correct.
Oakfleld, Wimbledon Park, July 6th, 1877.
To believe in God as the Infinite Spirit-presence of the universe, to
hold conscious converse with angels and spirits, and to live a just, up<
right and charitable, self-sacrificing spiritual life, these constitute an in¬
dividual a Spiritualist.—J. M. Peebles.
In a letter to us, dated Melbourne, May 8th, Mr. J. M. Peebles says,
“I am having much larger audiences here in Australia than I had on
my previous visit. Often there are 2,500 present in the Opera House
to hear my lectures. In a.few weeks I start for Ceylon, India, Mada¬
gascar, and South Africa.”
July 13, 1877.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
15
PHRENOLOGY AND PHYSIOGNOMY*
BY THE COUNTESS OP CAITHNESS.
“Both phrenology and physiognomy are great truths; and both
sciences are destined to be of the greatest use in enabling us to read
the character of man as it is engraved on his cranium, and delineated
on his features ; so true it is, that the outward form must ever be the
exact representation of the state of the soul during that soul’s upward
progress. I know but very little of these sciences, never having made
them a study, but the little I have read of them has impressed me
greatly with their beauty, and the deep interest and instruction
they would afford to any one who could devote the necessary time to
them.
“ Some few ideas on the subject I have, however, brought away as a
general result, and these seem to me to be applicable in the present
instance. Both sciences indicating, as they unmistakably do, that God
has nothing to do with fashioning or moulding our physical bodies, the
shape of our heads, or the beauty of our countenances, these will ever
be the result, or outward expression of what we are—weak, coarse,
and ugly, as a consequence visited upon us by nature for disobeying
her sacred injunctions ; beautiful, refined, and intellectual, if we
have cultivated our nobler nature, and raised ourselves in the scale of
humanity.
“ Evil and unhappiness are the inevitable consequences of ignorance
and wrong-doing ; therefore, if we violate the laws of nature in any
way we shall inevitably suffer in proportion to the violation, and our
physical bodies will be weak and sickly in this, and perhaps in our
next earthly existence ; and if we neglect to cultivate the higher
qualities of our nature, and all the nobler attributes which are dis¬
tinctive of man, our future organisation—which must exactly corre¬
spond to our interior state of advancement—will be weak and defective,
and our lower organs developed, that assimilate us to lower races
and more initial types of humanity, who are still nearer to the savage
or animal state than we ought to be, who are members of a cultivated
society.
“ I feel therefore justified in my assertion that we build up our own
bodies, and mould our own features, and that Divine Providence has
nothing to do with the immediate fashioning of our outward form;
when we maintain the contrary, we are obliged to admit that we were
compelled to act exactly as we did, in order to produce the effect which
was ordained by that Providence—namely, that our bodies should be
weak or ugly, or our lower organs more fully developed than our
nobler ones ; because we know that effect must ever follow cause, and
that evil ways, wrong-doing, and indulgence in animal appetites must
make their effects known, not only upon our own outward man, but
upon the organisms of our future children, who will therefore be from
a lower order of spirits ; for as like draws to like, higher ones could
not come to us, for they could not descend to a low level, which they
have long left behind them in their upward progress.
“ To speak phrenologically, as the tendency to animality and ma¬
terialism diminishes, so does the brain increase in altitude and in the
vigour of its anterior development, and so does the face acquire that
mould of feature and general intellectuality, and that spirituality of
expression, which distinguishes intellectual and spiritual man from
the lower races of his kind. The animal passions and impulses of our
nature, those which we still share in common with the brutes, and
which at some moment or other in our life’s history will still unfor¬
tunately assert their sway, and give us a token that they have not yet
been thoroughly eradicated (unless, indeed, we are already far ad¬
vanced on the ascending steps of the ladder), have their seat at the
base of the brain, and are therefore in juxtaposition with the body. In
the brain everything appears to occupy the right place ; the affections
are but the passions purified and refined, and therefore it is quite right
that in the structural arrangement of the cerebral organs they should
rest upon them.
‘ “ The love of life is surrounded by the combativeness which is to
defend it, by the destructiveness which is to carry out that defence if
necessary, and by the alimentiveness which provides for the growth or
repair of the corporeal structure. It is also not without sigaificance
that the passions and affections should be situated posteriorly, and the
intellectual faculties anteriorly; with what beautiful propriety are the
perceptive faculties arranged immediately around the eye. And is
there not a certain fitness and propriety in the reflective being super¬
imposed on the perceptive faculties, the sphere of thought thus domi¬
nating that of fact ? The organs of locality and time, separating the
inferior from the superior province of intelligence ; thus compelling us
to think of every event as having occurred at some period, and of each
thing as existing in a certain place ; how clearly do we perceive the
wisdom of the Creator in this chart of the human brain, the moral
sentiments occupying the topmost part, and sitting enthroned, as it
were, for are they not obviously intended to rule the soul ? There is
no more suggestive fact in the entire structure of man than this coronal
position of the moral sentiments, which so strikingly indicates the
rightful supremacy they hold over the impulses and the intellect;
neither is it without meaning that conscientiousness sits as chief coun¬
cillor on the right and left of the regal Will. While the centrality of
veneration, with all the nobler attributes of our being encircling it, is
adequate evidence of its importance, and a sufficient proof, were any
wanted, of the inherent grandeur and sublimity of its function. Not
without design was ideality, with wonder above and sublimity be¬
hind it, placed in the position of wings to the intellect, lifting it from
the practicalities and utilities of ordinary life into the grandeur and
glory, the beauty and spirituality, of a higher and freer, a more re¬
fined and harmonious -sphere of being.
* From Serious Letters to Serious Friends. London: Trubner and Co, 1877,
“ ‘ We also know that each organ undergoes a certain improvement
as the centuries elapse; thus we see that constructiveness, which is
mechanical in its roots, is artistic in its blossom. A few centuries ago
it could only shape tomahawks and erect wigwams; now it can carve
statues and erect temples. The same might be applied to harmony,
and to every other human faculty. But, that the organs may arrive at
their full perfection, centuries must elapse; and here we are brought in
view of a great truth, which, however unpleasant, will yet have to be
universally admitted, namely, the very important fact that a great
majority of men are as yet but imperfectly humanised. It is sufficient
to say that the proportion between the basilar and coronal, the pos¬
terior and anterior cerebral development of all the inferior races, and
of a large moiety of individuals, even of the superior types, is such as
to show that instinctive desires and passional impulses (the inheritance
from the previous animal sphere which caused our fall from the higher
state to which we had been individualised), but too often triumph over
the principles and the judgment that is our more especial endowment as
men.
“(Taking a fully developed Caucasian as the existing standard of
humanity, the Negro is embryonic, and the Turanian infantile in or¬
ganisation. Hence the marked approximation of the first to many of
the anatomical peculiarities of the anthropoid ape. He is humanity not
yet fully born. Hence, also, the sensual lips and the large and pro¬
truding teeth indicate the powerful sway of his sensuous nature, which
is so strong that in all unfavourably constituted individualities it sinks
into the grossest and most unredeemed sensualism. The short nose,
flat at the bridge, and turned up at the end, exhibiting the open
nostrils like a baboon, is simply a rudimentary organ, pre-eminently
indicative of the infantile weakness and imperfection of his intellectual
faculties; that subsist, as in the case of children, almost wholly on the
plane of perception. Such a being can originate no new ideas, and
carry out no enterprises of great pith and moment. He is deficient
alike in thought and action, wanting the requisite profundity for the
first, and the effective energy demanded by the last. In the Turanian
we have more power. But he wants altitude of head and elevation of
feature. He is deficient in the moral sentiments ; his energy is largely
that of impulse ; his desires are grovelling ; he is of the earth, earthly,
and may be defined as an unredeemed child of nature in one of the
ruder garbs of humanity ; we may say that this type is infantile.’—
{Creation, by J. W. Jackson, E.AS.L.). ’
Mr. Home’s book recently brought down much abuse of Spiritualism
in the Daily News.
The Spiritualists in Utah territory have begun to organise; the
secretary to the new organisation is Mr. Thomas C. Armstrong, Salt
Lake City-
The editor of the Banner of Light says that Mr. J. J. Morse’s
public services to Spiritualism are wanted in the United States next
winter.
The Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.) comments on the injustice con¬
nected with English law, as evinced by the recent attempts to decide
disputed problems in law courts. “Yet,” says the editor, “England
prides itself on the equitable operation of its legal machinery.”
Mr. Slade’s Offer to Professor Lankester.—This offer has been
advertised in Nature at a cost of £l 15s. Od., in The World £1 19s. Od.,
and in the Daily News (which eventually printed the advertisement) at
£2 Is. 6d.; total, £5 15s. 6d. The subscriptions given in to cover this
expense have been—Mr. C. C. Massey, £1; Mr. Alexander Tod, £l;
A Friend, £1; T., £1; Madame de Steiger, 5s. ; Mr. A. Joy,
5s.; *J. C. Eno, 10s.; Sir G. Isham, 5s.; and Mr. Berks Hutchin¬
son, 10s.; total, £5 15s. Od. Much good has been done by this
small subscription, and we now suggest another. For every £5 accu¬
mulated by subscription we will send out 30,000 leaflets instructing the
public how to form spirit circles at home; these will be sent by post in
packets of 100 each to Spiritualists whose addresses we have, and who,
after having these given to them, and discovering their practical value,
may be expected to purchase more for themselves. We have already
given away many thousands, but cannot be expected to do more single-
handed.
Emerson, on Demonology.—In the North American Review for
March is an article on Demonology, by R. W. Emerson, and the follow¬
ing are the concluding sentences:—“Mesmerism is high life bekw-
stairs, a Momus playing Jove in the kitchen of Olympus. ’Tis a low
I curiosity or lust of structure, and is separated by celestial diameters
from the love of spiritual truth. It is a wholly false view to couple these
i things, in any manner, with the religious sentiment, and a most danger¬
ous superstition to raise them to a lofty place of motives and sanctions.
I ■ This is to prefer haloes and rainbows to the sun and moon. Demonology
is the shadow of theology; the whole world is an omen and a sign.
Why look so Wistfully in a corner? Man is the image of God. These
adepts have mistaken flatulency for inspiration. Were this drivel which
they report as the voices of spirits really such, we must find out a more
i decisive suicide. I say to the table-rappers, . . . They are ignorant of
I all. that is healthy and useful to know, and by a law of kind—dunces
j seeking dunces in the dark of what they call the spiritual world—pre¬
ferring snores and gastric noises to the voices of any muse. ’Tis a law-
| less world. We have left the geometry, the compensation, and the con-
I science of the daily world, and come into the realm of a chaos of chance,
| and pretty or ugly confusion, no guilt and no virtue, but a droll bedlam,
• where everybody believes only his humour, and the actors and
i spectators have no conscience or reflection, no police or foot-rule, no
I sanity-—nothing but whim and whim creative,”
16
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 13, 1877,
SPIRIT FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
BY ENRICO BONDI. | (
In The Spiritualist of the 20th April last, I gave some of my j)
experiences in relation to these materialisation phenomena, such as is
have puzzled many scientific men, and opened a new field of inquiry to j \
every thoughtful mind. i)
Since I published the description of my two hours’ seance with a j\
materialised spirit, I have received several letters, some expressing great i)
interest in what I had written, others asking questions as to the possibility |)
of the reality of the facts I had narrated, and if I was quite sure that I j|
had not been imposed upon, one of them kindly intimating that when a j)
man believed in such rubbish the best place for him was a lunatic ||
asylum. I most earnestly thank all my correspondents for their j(
kindness and inquiries. As to the one about the lunatic asylum, I j j
should have answered the letter ere this, had it not slipped from the i l
memory of the writer to mention his name and address. I therefore [j
will now say a few words in reply to his advice, which I beg to assure ])
him was received with the same feelings with which I received the j|
letters of the others. I must remind him that since my investigation i {
of Spiritualistic phenomena began, sixteen years ago, I have, thanks to I)
the good God who constantly watches over us, been able to do my ! (
usual daily work without any interruption—nay, I venture to say much \)
better, since I became quite convinced that we are constantly sur- j)
rounded and guarded by those dear relatives and friends who have i (
“shuffled off this mortal coil,” and who have still as much interest in n
our welfare as when on earth. I do not attempt to enumerate the j)
consolations which through Spiritualism I have frequently received in | (
illnesses and troubles, nor to narrate at length the joy I felt on being |)
enabled to grasp, in the presence of sixteen persons, in the house of the j)
well-known Spiritualist and writer, Mr. S. G. Hall, the hand of my \l
ever dear departed mother ; nor to speak much of my thankfulness for !)
the messages and good words she sends me when needed. Confident, |)
however, that only lack of knowledge on this subject would have K
prompted the writer to send me such advice, I simply say that, as j)
Spiritualism teaches us charity, I received his rather sulky letter in a i|
charitable spirit, especially because for a long time I myself viewed j (
this subject with some antipathy, and refused to hear the testimony of j j
those who I well know would not knowingly deceive me. I was, jo
however, finally convinced of the truth of spiritual intercourse, after j j
long investigation in my own family, and through the mediumship of i)
some relatives of mine. Therefore I wish with all my heart that the j |
anonymous writer may have, before leaving this terrestrial planet of j (
ours, a few of those tests of spirit identity, and a few of those conso- j)
lations which I have often received myself, and if he has only a spark j] j
of feeling and love for those who have preceded him to the world [| j
beyond, I am confident that he will change his mind on a subject j| I
which at present he seems to be incapable of understanding. j< j
To the other inquirers, I may state that I will endeavour to answer j j j
their queries from facts presented at the seances which I am now j) j
recording, and I hope to be able to clear their minds of all doubts j j I
whether tricks or fraud could possibly be perpetrated under the strict jj j
test conditions employed for months while examining these wonderful j i
proofs of spirit communion. il l;
Since my last I have had the privilege of attending other seances in jj j
the same family, and of passing many pleasant hours with the same jj j
good spirit, consequently have been permitted to watch closely the ill
gradual development of the powers of the wonderful medium, and to jj I
observe with great care and an impartial eye, free from prejudice, the jj j
progress of the manifestations, produced by the unfolding laws of spirit i (I
return, which we are in no way as yet able to explain or understand, jj i
I have also witnessed greater phenomena than those already recorded. |j j
I am now permitted to mention the name of the medium, Miss Kate liy jj
S. Cook, and I do so with great pleasure, as it takes away from me a j j j
heavy responsibility. It is a truism that anonymity always leaves jli
doubts in the mind of sceptical readers as to the truthfulness of recorded |||
facts. jj j
The next unpublished seance I attended was on the 24th of April j ]
last. I was punctual in my attendance at the hour appointed by the ij j
same spirit, Lillie. I mention this simply because the spirit said to us jj j
one evening, in allusion to the hour of meeting, “We spirits have just ij 1
the same etiquette as regards time as mortals, and we do not like to jjj
wait too long after the appointed hour. Delay in commencing a seance jj |
often mars the best of the physical manifestations, without your being ' | i
able to explain the cause of the failure.” i j
On the evening already mentioned the circle was thus composed :— jjj
Mrs. Cook, Miss Kate Selina Cook (the medium of eighteen), Miss jji
Edith Cook (eight years of age), and myself. It was arranged that we | j !•
should then hold a dark seance. The door was, as usual, locked in- j j j
side. We put on the table the Oxford chimes, a bell, roll of cardboard, 11 j
tambourine, and a sheet of writing paper, which I examined carefully jjj
under the gas burner; it was entirely blank, and I marked it on both j j j
sides. Many times I have asked, “ Why do spirits require* such in- ij I
struments to manifest ? ” My answer is this, “ Spirits do not require j j |
such things to manifest, consequently the instruments are not jji
absolutely necessary, but are used sometimes at seances just as writers jj |
use pen and ink to write with, and as an artist uses colours and brushes I j j
with which to paint. Spirits require something to show that they can i j j
move objects and play instruments with the same facility that we can, H. j
when the necessary conditions are favourable.” jjj
We took our seats round the table, lit a candle, and turned off the I j
gas. I rested my hands on the sheet of paper which I had marked, j§|
held the hand of the medium, then put the light out. Not many minutes | j
elapsed before the spirit, Lillie, spoke to us, and, in her clear voice, i j
said to me, “ I have brought with me this evening a spirit, a relative of j ,j
yours, who wishes very much to speak to you, but in order to do so it I j j
is necessary to wait some time, that the spirit may get acquainted with
the medium.”
We waited patiently for more than half an hour. In the meanwhile,
the “ Oxford Chimes ” was carried away, and played all round the room
at our request; and so were the hand-bell and the other instruments.
I was several times touched, and my face patted, by hands of different
sizes. I requested the spirits to play the piano, which was behind me,
and instantly it was played. My rings and scarf-pin were removed
from me. It seemed to me that many spirits were at work in the room
that evening. After a while I asked Lillie if the new spirit who wished
to communicate with me could do so. The reply was, “ I am helping
the spirit as much as I can ; you must not be too anxious about it, but
wait patiently.” We waited thus for another half-hour, and then Lillie
said that the new spirit had to contend with great difficulties, but was,
however, going to try, if possible, to give a few words in my own lan¬
guage. On listening quiescently, I heard whispering in my ear in a
measured voice; the words were, however, too indistinct for me to
gather them; the attempt was repeated several times, but with no
better success. Lillie then said that the spirit could not, that evening,
surmount the difficulties ; nevertheless, she hoped to be able to do so
another time, but the same spirit was going to leave me a written
message.
The paper, which I had still under my hands, was then slipped away
from me, and, floating in the air, it passed several times quite close to
my face ; then I heard it falling on the table ; afterwards I heard the
pencil going over it with great rapidity for two or three seconds. The
light was then called for by Lillie. I took the sheet of paper in my
hand, not with the hope of finding any written message, as it seemed
to me that the time was too short, and the rapidity of the pencil too
great, for getting a legible communication. However, to my surprise,
on examining the paper I found upon it, written in a beautifully small
clear hand, and with the lines straight and parallel one with another,
the Lord's Prayer va. Latin. The paper had upon it the same marks I
had made before the seance commenced. I read the words twice over
with delight, and could not help exclaiming, “ Can this be the work of
the devil ? ”
It is true that the learned Jesuit, Father Antonio Bresciani, in
writing on Spiritualism says, “ The devil, in our days, goes to work in
a totally different way from that he used to in former times. Now he
is so good as to go to sleep with the somnambulists, to dance with
tables, and so kind as to write with planchettes, as well as through
mediums, without frightening them in the least. He dresses himself
in the Parisian, American, English, and German styles; he visits
drawing-rooms, keeps company with ladies of high rank, who go to
hear mass every morning—such, for instance, as the Princess Mathilde,
Cap. Gerberga di Drosendhort, &c.” However, the reverend father
does not attempt to cure mediums with blue pills. He further says,
“ These facts of spirit communion are too old and too true to bear con¬
tradiction, and those who attempt to contradict them are compelled to
build up many other facts which they themselves are unable to ex¬
plain.”
Lillie then said, “ The spirit who wrote the Lord's Prayer wishes me
to tell you that he desires you to keep it, as on a future occasion he
will give you some test of his identity.”
All the time the message was being written I was holding hands
with the medium, and Miss Cook does not know Latin.
At another seance the same spirit, Lillie, while outside the curtains
of our extemporised cabinet, said to me, “A spirit is standing close by
you; I often see him near you.” I asked her if she could describe him;
she did so, and from her description I at once recognised that he was a
relative of mine, a theologian and preacher, who died in Rome in the
Quirinal Palace some years ago, and with whom I have often com¬
municated.
At another seance on the 27th, the members of the family as already
mentioned were present. I helped to put up the curtains which form
the cabinet. Before describing that stance I feel it to be my duty to say
in answer to some of the inquiries, that the sofa upon which the medium
lies down is close to the folding doors which lead to the back room used
as a bedroom. The folding doors are closed at the top and bottom with
bolts, and locked in the centre. Strips of paper were pasted across the
opening of the doors in the bedroom side, and a chest of drawers is right
against them. I have frequently examined the doors before and after
the seance commenced. The brass pole on which the curtains run is
fixed about fifteen inches below the cornice of the folding doors, so that
should any one attempt to open them to admit an accomplice, the persons
sitting in the room would see it. I am very particular in thus describing
the situation of the doors and of the brass pole, for reasons which will
be obvious hereafter.
I locked the door and we took our seats at five minutes past eight.
Lillie spoke to us at eight o’clock, but did not show herself till twenty-
five minutes past eight. On my asking why she was so long in appearing,
she replied, “ We are trying some new experiments.” I then asked if
she could accomplish the promised result of showing the medium and
herself at the same time. Standing outside the curtains, she replied, as
well as I can remember, thus:—“ I am as anxious as you are, but every¬
thing must be done by degrees, and with the greatest care, not to undo
what we have already done. If those who attend seances would only
realise the difficulty under which we labour in materialising, they would
never, either consciously or unconsciously, abuse the laws of spirit
return, and would attend the seances with more religious feeling, with
more respect for those who are sent here by the Almighty God to give
palpable proofs of the immortality of the soul, and to confute and
destroy materialism. It appears to you who behold us, but a small
thing, but to us who are presenting ourselves before you, the work
seems almost insurmountable. Those who passively await our return
help us the most; but those who come as if they expected to see an
act from a drama, to interest them only for a time, place a barrier
July 13, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 17
between ns and them which at timeS it is impossible to pass. We
return to earth, not to amuse its inhabitants, but to lead them from
the night of doubt and fear into the glorious sunshine of God’s truth;
therefore, whatever is pure, good, and true in your nature bring into the
spirit circle, and out of such elements we will weave a garland of truth
for you all.”
Lillie then directed me to arrange the light, and to approach nearer to
the curtains. I did so. Mrs. Gook was sitting on my right, and Miss
Edith Cook on my left. Lillie spoke with us for a few minutes, then
she requested us to give her a shawl. Mrs. Cook took a red shawl from
Edith Cook, and handed it to Lillie. I asked if the medium were cold;
“ Oh dear no!” she replied, “ she is quite warm, but I want it for some¬
thing else.”
This done, Lillie was very busy opening and closing the curtains, and
looking at the lantern, which was then throwing a good reddish light,
and so illuminating the room that we could see each other very clearly.
Lillie said, “ I fear the light is too strong; will you, Mr. Rondi, turn it
down a little ? ” I did so. Lillie then retired inside the curtains, and
remained for a few minutes. I could see her moving about; then I
heard her calling, “ Katie, Katie, get up, get up.” I heard the medium
moaning first, and speaking with the spirit afterwards, as if there were
two persons. I need not say with what anxiety I was watching every
movement, and listening to every word. Suddenly the curtains were
drawn aside, and I saw a white form coming out and falling upon Mrs.
Cook’s knee. I felt at the moment amazed. I asked Mrs. Cook, Is it
Lillie or Katie ? “ Katie,” she replied. The white vapour with which
it seemed to me the medium was surrounded on her opening the curtains
began then gradually to disappear before my eyes, and it was only after
a few minutes that I could realise that it was the medium; the head
was covered with the red shawl that Lillie had asked for a few minutes
before. Lillie, however, remained inside the enclosure, moving the.
curtains to show us that she was there. I begged of her to show her¬
self; but the reply was, “I cannot; it has been done too quick, too
quick; however, I hope to do better next time.” ‘ While the spirit was
thus answering my questions, the medium was still resting upon the
knee of Mrs. Cooke without moving, but again, unexpectedly, and in a
second, she was up and back in the enclosure. I heard her falling on
the couch, and the curtains were instantly drawn. This was the first
attempt by the spirit to show herself and the medium at the same time ;
but in consequence of some incidents which I am unable to explain,
the phenomenon could not be presented that evening. Lillie had done
her utmost to gratify my ardent desires. I thanked her very much, as
well as all the spirits who helped her in this great work of materialisation,
and I promised to attend her next seance, which was held on the first
of May.
On that evening I was again the only visitor. Mr. T. Blyton, of 72,
Navarino-road, Dalston, who had attended these seances since the
beginning of the development of Miss Cook’s mediumship, has not been
present of late, on account of his own illness, and of the death of are lative.
Before the seance commenced I went into the bedroom adjoining the
seance room, and found everything in its place as before. I did so,
not from want of confidence in the family, but because in recording these
seances, I wished to be able to say to my respected readers that no con¬
federates could possibly be in the cabinet to help a young lady of
eighteen to play tricks.
I arranged the curtains, locked the door, covered the medium with the
grey rug, and took my seat. Mrs. Cook was on my right and Miss E.
Cook on my left. Lillie spoke almost directly, saying, “ Good evening,
good evening, friends.” A few minutes afterwards she drew the curtains,
put out her very pretty face, and beckoned to me. As the light from
the lantern was rather strong upon her face, I could see that on this
occasion she was not at all like the medium. I said, “Lillie, I have
brought something for you.” “ I know,” she replied, “ it is a rose.”
“ Yes; and I should like you to come and take it.” She answered, “ I
will, but you must not touch me.” I replied, “ You well know that I
never break any conditions, and that I never attempt to touch you
without asking your permission.” “ I know it well, but I thought it
better to tell you, in order not to disturb at this moment the cord of
connection with the medium, as I am not yet fully materialised.” The
rose was in the button-hole of my coat. She stepped towards me with
some difficulty. I noticed that she was not wallang, but floating. I
asked her what was the cause. “ Because I am standing upon my spirit
legs,” she replied. When almost close to me, she went off again in an
instant; she repeated the attempt three times; the last time she took
the rose from my button-hole, and remained speaking for some time.
While standing so near, in her long, white dress, I said to her,
“ Suppose, Lillie, that at this moment I were to break my promise,
and get hold of you, what would be the result?” Lillie, looking
straight in my face, smelling the rose, and smiling at me, as if to
say, “ Would you dare ?’’ answered thus“ I do not fear in the least;
but as you have asked me the question I must answer you. I should
dematerialise in your own hands, but remember that between the medium
and the spirit there is always a cord of connection, and anything that
disturbs the materialised spirit is at once transmitted along this cord to
the medium; consequently, should the materialised spirit be seized this
mesmeric wave is affected, and where violence is used the life of the
medium is in danger. The act would decidedly result either in
physical prostration or in death. Therefore, never from any motive
attempt to do anything contrary to these laws.”
She then went inside the curtains, and remained some time; on re¬
appearing again she ordered me to turn out the light of the lantern.
There were no shutters or anything to exclude the light from the
windows, except ordinary Venetian blinds. Lillie then returned inside
the cabinet, and began to call, “Katie! Katie! It is time to get up!
Get up, and out of my hut.” The medium began to moan, as if awaking
from a long sleep, and said, “Lillie! Let me alone! Let me alone !”
“ You must get up and go out,” Lillie answered. The medium then got
< i up and immediately made her appearance, standing outside the curtains.
(i I put some questions, which were answered at once. Lillie was standing
) l behind her. I asked to the spirit if the medium could sit on a chair—
(j “No, she must not,” was the reply, “please open the blinds a little.”
) | I did so. On retaking my seat I could see both medium and spirit close
J j to each other quite clearly. Lillie, however, had her face covered with
(! a veil; the medium and the spirit spoke together, and answered some of
) \ my questions. The medium was then quite close to the mantelpiece,
) j and I asked her to move some objects on it, which were at once moved.
(j While the medium was so occupied I asked Lillie a question, which
(| she answered at once, proving to me that we had two persons
) | quite separated from each other. Again I was asked to open the blinds
(| a little more, so as to get better light. I did so, and I could see the two
S | figures much clearer than before, one with a dark coloured dress, the
) | other with a white robe. I asked Lillie to kiss the medium. Im-
(| mediately she went close to her, and both figures kissed each other; I
| i then said, “ Do you know, Lillie, that some Spiritualists think that you
) i are the spirit of the medium? ” “ I know it, but I assure you I am not;
(| and those who believe so are greatly mistaken; my spirit cannot be that
j | of the medium. I am Lillie Gordon, the medium is Katie Cook.
) | Sometimes, though, I am like her, because I am linked to her by a cord
< | of connection when I materialise.” With her consent I went close to
) j: her, and I was permitted to touch her dress, and to feel her hand, which
) | I found very small. The medium being tired of standing, the spirit
|< i wished us all goodnight, and thus ended this wonderful seance.
|) | Since then I have attended several other seances, but I have not been
) able to see the medium and spirit again so well and in so much light
| as on this occasion.
i) | On another evening, while Lillie was standing outside speaking to us,
j) j I said to her that I should like to see her once with her hair visible.
K j “Well, I will try to please you this evening,” was the reply. Lillie
Is | went inside the curtains, and in about fifteen minutes was out again
j) | without the white head-dress, and with a profusion of hair falling down
u upon her shoulders. I asked to be allowed to go nearer. She acceded
\{ i at once. “ Can I touch it ? ” I asked. “ Yes,” she replied. I took hold
||] of a handful of hair, which was about twenty inches long, but I
|(| found it rather coarse. Lillie said, “ I don’t like it; it is not mine.”
Ivl “ To whom does it belong if it is not yours?” I asked. “ I drew it
|n from you all, and from the atmosphere.”
i < 1 On another evening the good and harmonious conditions were dis-
| turbed by the influence of workmen who had been in the house, con-
sequently the materialisation could not take place. I asked the spirit,
\l | who had spoken a few words, if we could help her by joining hands.
|ji “No,you cannot so help me,” she replied; “but you can help me by
! | you yourself sitting inside the cabinet and joining hands with the
\{\ medium.” I went, sat close, got hold of the medium’s hands, and,
|)| resting myself against the folding-doors, I remained thus for about
j) | twenty minutes. The medium was restless all the time. I myself, after
\l\ a while, felt I could not remain much longer awake, and I told Lillie so.
!)| “Have patience a few minutes longer,” she said. After a few minutes
|)| she said to me, “You can go now, thank you.” I left the medium’s
I (i hands, got up and took my seat, but I was not yet seated when, to my
|) I great surprise, I saw Lillie standing at the opening of the curtains. I
I)I mention this fact simply to prove that in a second or two it would have
K i been impossible for any one to have opened the door, entered the room,
| \ I and showed herself to us.
|i| We have also lately several times obtained the full materialisation
| < | without the aid of the cabinet; but I shall not record the details for the
i j | present, for fear of having already trespassed too long upon the space
|) j allowed, and I fear also of having tried the patience of my readers. My
j i object is to show to those who go to investigate spiritualistic phenomena,
| | that the adoption of this method of allowing spirits to have their own
j)i way, produces greater results than could be imagined, and such
Kj inquirers will be fully compensated for their labour; but those who
j j attend stances in a dictatorial tone, and impose their own conditions,
|)| both upon spirits and mediums, are not likely to be gratified in their
j< j wishes, or to arrive at a comprehension of the great blessing of modern
| j | Spiritualism, which I fervently believe to be sanctioned by God for the
i) ! good and welfare of humanity in general.
I (j 22, Montague-place, Russell-square,
j) | London, July lOth.
| | PRIVATE EXPERIMENTS.
] j | BY C. CARTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI.
jf On Sunday, July 8th, in my own rooms, there were pre-
ill sent my wife, brother, self, and Mr. Herne. Time, 5 p.m.;
j j full light. Slight rotation of a small table occurred,
I | followed by elevation at the side nearest myself, and furthest
| | from the medium. A small silk winder being placed in the
| | middle of the table between us, it was desired that the
k| windlass-handle of this should be turned. This was not
j|| done; but the table was elevated on Mr. Herne’s side, and
y the machine gradually slipped towards his fingers in an
ijl upward direction. The angle of the table-top to the ground
m was then, as I estimate roughly, about 45 degrees. The
|| medium’s hands were subsequently much convulsed. His
I | hands and feet were in full view all the time.
j? | The Progress of Spiritualism.—A letter in another column
Hj shows that Spiritualism is flourishing in Australia, and we possess
1) i information showing that it is spreading steadily, though privately,
j)j in some of the most influential sections of society in Europe. It is
II also making steady headway in England.
IS
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 13, 1877.
THE DECEASE OF MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN.
Mr. Dale Owen’s state of failing health was mentioned a
fortnight ago in these pages, .and to-day we have to make the
announcement that this most faithful and efficient worker in
the cause of Spiritualism has passed to the higher life. Mr.
Dale Owen always commanded the respect of all who knew him,
and he was especially beloved by Spiritualists for the manli¬
ness and independence with which he testified to the reality
of the unpopular truth of spirit communion. His latest lite¬
rary work of this kind consisted of articles written for this
journal, and his last communication to these pages was the
one in which he gave such unanswerable personal testimony
as to the reality of the phenomena which take place in the
presence of Dr. Slade.
Dr. Eugene Crowell, of New York, informed us a fortnight
ago that he thought that Mr. Dale Owen, who at the time
the letter was written was his guest, would not be much
longer in this world.
Mr. Luther Colby, editor of the Banner of Light, sent us
by the last mail an advance proof of a summary to be
published in his journal of the career of Mr. Dale Owen, as
follows:—
On Sunday morning, the 24th inst., our old friend and valued co¬
worker passed to the reward which surely awaited him (as it does all
who labour for the advancement of every phase of truth on earth) in the
land of souls.
Mr. Owen was in character singularly simple and straightforward,
and his tastes refined, and he enjoyed the esteem and friendship of a
large number of men prominent in literature and public fife, outside of
as well as within the ranks of the spiritual believers. He was a man of
unusually vigorous intellect, honest beyond all question, and animated
by a noble desire to benefit the human race and promote sound principles.
Robert Dale was born at Glasgow, Scotland, November 7th, 1801,
and spent his early years at New Lanark, under the care of a private
teacher. He subsequently studied for three years at Hofwyl, in Swit¬
zerland, and in 1823 came to this country with his father. He lived
several years at New Harmony, Indiana, where his father was en¬
gaged in an effort to build up a community in accord with his theories,
but from 1828 to 1831 was in New York, conducting a weekly paper
called the Free Enquirer, in partnership with Miss Frances "Wright.
He returned to New Harmony in 1832, after his marriage with Mary
Jane Robinson, daughter of Samuel Robinson, a prominent merchant of
New York.
Mr. Owen, after settling at New Harmony, had considerable ex¬
perience in public life. He served in the Indiana Legislature from
1835 to 1838, and in Congress from 1845 to 1847. He introduced the
bill organising the Smithsonian Institution, and in 1846 became one of
its regents and chairman of its Building Committee. He was a member
of the Constitutional Convention in Indiana in 1850, and Chairman of
its Revision Committee, and both in the Convention and the Legisla¬
ture endeavoured to secure the adoption of measures granting inde¬
pendent rights of property to women. He was appointed Charge
d’Affaires at Naples in 1853 and Minister in 1855, and remained there
until 1858. For the last few years Mr. Owen was engaged mostly in
literary work.
IHs investigations in Spiritualism began some twenty years ago or
more, and he became a devout believer in its philosophy and phe¬
nomena, passing out of the form in the full assurance of its truth. His
first important work on the subject was Footfalls on the Boundaries of
Another World, published in 1860, and in 1872 appeared The Debatable
Land between this World and the Next. In these two books an account
is given of his studies and observations with mediums, and many mar¬
vellous experiences are related.
He published several books prior to 1860, including an historical
drama entitled Pocahontas and Hints on Public Architecture, and in 1870
appeared a novel under the title Beyond the Breakers. Previous to his
illness in 1875 he was engaged on an autobiography, portions of which
appeared in the Atlantic Monthly. Mr. Owen devoted much thought
to social and philosophical questions, and was a vigorous writer
and attractive speaker.
Within a few years he again entered the married state, residing with
the lady who linked her fortunes with his, at Lake George, N.Y., up to
the time of his decease. The army of progress on earth has lost the
material presence of a valiant soldier, but the workers in the sphere of
causation have, in his transition, won a powerful recruit.
The Pall Mall Gazette says :—
The New York papers announce the death, on the 24th of June, of
Mr. Robert Dale Owen, at the age of seventy-six. Mr. Owen was the
eldest son of the late Mr. Robert Owen, and was associated with his
father in many of his attempts to carry out practically the social theories
which he advocated. Mr. Owen was a voluminous writer on a variety
of subjects, and took an active part in American politics on the Demo¬
cratic side. He was twice elected to Congress, and in 1853 President
Pierce appointed him Charge d’Aflfaires at Naples. From 1855 to 1.858
he acted as United States Minister at the same Court, and, after
travelling for a short time in Europe, returned to America in 1859.
When the civil war broke out he strongly supported the cause of the
Union, and in 1864 published a work against slavery. In his later
years he became a believer in Spiritualism, and published several works
11 on the subject, the best known of which was the book entitled Footfalls
i |i on the Boundary of Another World.
| |j Mr. Luther Colby informs us that up to the moment of
j | his death, Mr. Dale Owen was of perfectly sound mind. No
| | traces of his mental aberration of nearly two years ago were
| I apparent.
| | SPIRITUALISM IN MANCHESTER.
| jj BY CHARLES BLACKBURN.
I | Last night I was at the meeting in the smaller room of
| i the Free Trade Hall, Manchester, listening to Mrs. E. H.
| I Britten. I did not see a single reporter there, which is very
I] bad, for to make sure, two at least ought to have been
| | secured. The room and galleries were crowded, and u What
j j is God ? ” was the subject selected by the audience, because
| | it was considered appropriate for a Sunday’s discourse. Mrs.
II Britten in her delivery was majestic and dignified; she
| j spoke in bold and fiery terms against ecclesiastics, yet showed
I | all the love of the spirit of God towards sceptics and dis-
I believers in regard to the new doctrine of Spiritualism. She
I j carried her audience completely with her, for the listeners
] frequently applauded her magnificent language. Mr. Oxley
yl was the chairman.
| | Miss Kate Cook has been on a visit to Mrs. Blackburn
. |j and myself We had a few seances, but they were not so
Hi powerful as at Hackney, owing to the introduction of fresh
| j sitters each time ; still, all the elements for good seances were
I I present. Mrs. Britten was surprised at the results, for the
| j spirit and the medium were out of the cabinet together and
|l talking, though in darkness, amongst us for sometime,
jjj Light is to be gradually admitted, but only to the same
]i| sitters, by the spirit Lillie’s orders. In the bedroom Lillie
I I has been very rough with the young ladies who slept together ;
I I the pillows and coverlids were banged about. Last night
| | when Katie Cook had gone fast asleep, the spirit Lillie came
j <| and held a conversation on various subjects with my daughter
I j for half an hour—another new fact. This is the first time
| jj Miss Cook has ever ventured from home alone and given
| |j seances, showing what careful and kind treatment of mediums
| | will do. This plan ought to be adopted by all investigators.
nj Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance address on Sunday next,
ijl July 15, at Doughty Hall, Bedford-row, W.C., at 7 p.m. Subject—
| >1 “Man, God, and the Future State, in the Light of Modern Spiritualism.”
A Seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s.—A few days ago a
Hi seance was held at the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-
| j I street, Grosvenor-square, London, at which Mr. J. W. Fletcher, trance
j I medium, told a lady present all the details of certain private and im-
gf portant business she had transacted at her lawyer’s a few hours pre-
I | viously. The details were so exactly given, and the communicating
111 spirits so precisely described, that were we to print the details the whole
Hi case would be recognised by those interested. A few accurate par-
i ji ticulars were also given to Mr. Percival. Among those present at this
jj| seance was Prince George of Solms. Last Monday night Mrs. Gregory
j j gave a reception, at which a considerable proportion of Spiritualists
jj! was present.
The Stoppage of Abuse of Spiritualism.—Nearly every instance
| ji in which popular abuse has been showered upon Spiritualism originated
I j | in the subject having been first thrust upon persons unprepared to re-
i i ceive it; and when individuals have that thrust upon them which they
jj do not want, inharmony is the necessary and natural result. The
| i admission of improper persons to the seances of professional or non-
j | professional mediums, the assumption of an aggressive instead of a
I j! kindly position towards popular ideas from our public platforms, the
j j i presentation of badly selected spiritual literature to those who detest it,
ijl and similar injudicious acts, cause friction, and necessarily bring down
ijj popular abuse. By the avoidance of such acts Spiritualism can be made
| H to grow quietly enough. People should not be admitted to seances till
|ji they themselves have earnestly asked for invitations, and their sincerity
j ! in so doing is known. "Why should we, with the finest phenomena in
j ji our midst which the world has ever seen, cast such pearls before bigoted
m and ignorant people, or recognise such people as judges? The true
j j.i method of proselytising is to take a non-aggressive position towards out-
m siders, and to improve the movement within by efficient organisation,
| j i absence of inharmony, and earnestness in prosecuting research in relation
If to the facts at the root of the matter. Anything is badly managed when
jjj unwilling people have to be pushed into it, instead of its being besieged
jjj by people asking to be let in. Another method of proselytising is to
jjj start Spiritualism in the homes of our opponents, by the scattering
m among their families of information how to form spirit circles ; nothing
I j j can be more aggravating to a man who has delivered a lecture explain-
j j l ing that the phenomena are not real, than to find them rampant in his
III own family when he gets home. Argument about Spiritualism does
j jl little in the way of spreading it, but new circles are all-powerful; every
jjj new average medium developed maybe assumed to convert, say, fifty
i(i persons a year.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR. CARPENTER’S
STATEMENTS ABOUT CLAIRVOYANCE.
As Dr. Carpenter knows almost nothing about the facts
and phenomena of psychology, and says so much that is in¬
accurate thereupon, we have not thought his more recent
utterances or writings worthy of notice in these pages, because
they have no influenee whatever over anybody who has a
smattering of knowledge of the subject. They influence the
ignorant who trust in him a great deal, but as our pages do
not reach many of the uninformed, they are better utilised in
dealing with more important matters. The Quarterly Journal \ \
of Science) edited by Mr. William Crookes, circulates, how- |
ever, among the general public, and Mr. A. R. Wallace has j
done good service by reviewing therein Dr. Carpenter’s work I
on Spiritualism and Mesmerism, although it seems almost a |
pity that such honest hard work and carefully accumulated j
accurate knowledge should be expended upon such a worth- j
less book. The review is splendidly written, and our lecturers j
and public speakers all over the country would do well to keep |
it always on hand, and to quote it largely at public meetings, j
especially when Dr. Carpenter’s name is mentioned. We j
append about one-third of the review :—
We now come to the very interesting and important sub- j
ject of clairvoyance, which Dr. Carpenter introduces with a j
great deal of irrelevant matter calculated to prejudge the
question. Thus, he tells his readers that P there are at the j
present time numbers of educated men and women who have
so completely surrendered their ‘ common sense ’ to a domi¬
nant prepossession as to maintain that any such monstrous
fiction (as of a person being carried through the air in an |
hour from Edinburgh to London) ought to be believed, even j
upon the evidence of a single witness, if that witness be one
upon whose testimony we should rely in the ordinary affairs |
of life! ” He offers no proof of this statement, and we
venture to say he can offer none, and it is only another |
example of that complete misrepresentation of the opinions of j
his opponents with which this book abounds. At page 71,
however, we enter upon the subject itself, and at once j
encounter one of those curious examples of ignorance (or j
suppression of evidence) for which Dr. Carpenter is so
remarkable in his treatment of this subject. We have been {
already told (p. 11) of the French Scientific Commission I
which about a hundred years ago investigated the pretensions j
of Mesmer, and decided, as might have been anticipated, j
against him. Now, we have the statement that “ it was by i
the French Academy of Medicine, in which the mesmeric !
state had been previously discussed with reference to the j
performance of surgical operations, that this new and more |
extraordinary claim (clairvoyance) was first carefully sifted, !
in consequence of the offer made in 1837 by M. Burdin of a
prize of 3,000 francs to any one who should be found capable
of reading through opaque substances.” The result was
negative. No clairvoyant succeeded under the conditions
imposed. The reader unaccustomed to Dr. Carpenter’s his¬
torical method would naturally suppose this statement to be
correct, and that clairvoyance was first carefully sifted in
France after 1837, though he might well doubt, if offering a
prize for reading under rigid conditions was an adequate
means of sifting a faculty so eminently variable, uncertain,
and delicate as clairvoyance is admitted to be. What, then,
will be his astonishment to find that this same “ Academic
Royal de Medicine ” had appointed a commission of eleven
members in 1826, who inquired into the whole subject of
mesmerism for five years, and in 1831 reported in full, and
in favour of the reality of almost all the alleged phenomena,
including clairvoyance. Of the eleven members, nine attended
the meetings and experiments, and all nine signed the report,
which was therefore unanimous. This report, being full and
elaborate, and the result of personal examination and experi¬
ment by medical men — the very ff trained and sceptical
experts,” who are maintained by Dr. Carpenter to be the
only adequate judges—is only ignored by him. In this
report we find among the conclusions—“ 24. We have seen
two somnambulists distinguish with their eyes shut objects
19
placed before them: name cards, read books, writing, &c.
This phenomenon took place even when the opening of the
eyelids was accurately closed by means of the fingers.”* Is
it not strange that the “ historian” of mesmerism, &c., should
be totally ignorant of the existence of this report, which is
referred to in almost every work on the subject? Yet he
must be thus ignorant or he could never say, as he does in
the very same page quoted above (p. 71), “ that in every
instance (so far as I am aware) in which a thorough investi¬
gation has been made into those { higher phenomena ’ of
mesmerism, the supposed proof has completely failed.” It
cannot be said that investigation by nine medical men
carried on for five years with every means of observation
and experiment, and elaborately reported on, was not
“ thorough,” whence it follows that Dr. Carpenter must be
ignorant of it, and our readers can draw their own inference
as to the value of his opinion, and the dependence to be
placed on his scientific and historical treatment of this
subject.
More than twenty-five pages of the book are occupied with
more or less detailed accounts of the failures and alleged
exposures of clairvoyants, while not a single case is given of
a clairvoyant having stood the test of rigid examination by a
committee, or by medical or other experts, and the implica¬
tion is that none such are to be found. But every inquirer
knows that clairvoyance is a most delicate and uncertain
phenomenon, never to be certainly calculated on, and this is
repeatedly stated in the works of Lee, Gregory, Teste,
Deleuze, and others. How, then, can any number of indi¬
vidual failures affect the question of the reality of the com¬
paratively rare successes. As well deny that any rifleman
ever hit the bull’s-eye at 1,000 yards, because none can be
sure of hitting it always, and at a moment’s notice. Several
pages are devoted to the failure of Alexis and Adolphe Didier
under test conditions in England, ending with the sneering
remark, “Nothing, so far as I am aware, has ever been since
heard of this par nobile fratrum.” Would it (to use an
established formula) surprise Dr. Carpenter to hear that
these gentlemen remained in England a considerable time
after the date he alludes to, that they have ever since retained
their power and reputation, and that both still practice suc-
I; cessfully medical clairvoyance, the one in London, and the
| other in Paris ? To balance the few cases of failure by
I Alexis, Dr. Lee has given his personal observations of ten
| times as many successes, some of them of the most startling
| kind (Animal Magnetism, pp. 255, 277). We can only
j find room here for two independent and complete tests. The
j first is given by Seijeant Cox as witnessed by himself. A
| party of experts was planned to test Alexis. A word was
j written by a,friend in a distant town and enclosed in an
if envelope, without any of the party knowing what the word was.
\ | This envelope was enclosed successively in six others of thick
| j brown paper, each sealed. This packet was handed to
| | Alexis, who placed it on his forehead, and in three minutes
| l and a half wrote the contents correctly, imitating the very
| I handwriting. {What am I, vol. ii., p. 167.) Now unless
I j this statement by Serjeant Cox is absolutely false, a thousand
||| failures cannot outweigh it. But we have, if possible, better
| | evidence than this; and Dr. Carpenter knows it, because I
j j called his attention to it in the Daily News. Yet he makes
| | no allusion to it. I refer to the testimony of Robert Houdin,
| | the greatest of modern conjurors, whose exploits are quoted
| | by Dr. Carpenter, when they serve his purpose (pp. 76, 111),
l! He was an absolute master of card-tricks, and knew all their
I I possibilities. He was asked by the Marquis de Mirville to
ji visit Alexis, which he did twice. He took his own new
| | cards, dealt them himself, but Alexis named them as they
111 lay on the table, and even named the trump before it was
| | turned up. This was repeated several times, and Houdin
| | declared that neither chance nor skill could produce such
| | wonderful results. He then took a book from his pocket and
||j asked Alexis to read something eight pages beyond where it
j ! was opened at a specified level. Alexis pricked the place
l|| with a pin, and read four words, which were found at the
| | place pricked nine pages on. He then told Houdin numerous
| I details as to his son, in some of which Houdin had tried to
| j | deceive him, but in vain; and when it was over Houdin declared
July 13, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
* Archives Generales de Medecine, vol. xx.; also in Lee’s Animal Magnetism, pp. 13 to 29.
20
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 13, 1877.
it “stupefying,” and the next day signed a declaration that
the report of what took place was correct, adding, “ the
more I reflect upon them the more impossible do I find it to
class them among the tricks which are the object of my art.”
The two letters of Robert Houdin were published at the time
(May, 1847) in Le Siecle, and have since appeared in many
works, among others in Dr. Lee’s Animal Magnetism (pp.
163 and 231)7 ... .
A clairvoyant boy at Plymouth was submitted to the
examination of a sceptical committee, who appear to have
done their work very thoroughly. First his eyes were
examined, and it was found that the balls were so turned up
that even were the eyelids a little apart, ordinary vision was
impossible.* Then he was closely watched, and while the
eyelids were seen to be perfectly closed, he read easily. Then
adhesive plaster was applied, carefully warmed, in three
layers, and it was watched to see that the adhesion was
perfect all round the edges. Again the boy read what was
presented to him, sometimes easily, sometimes with difficulty.
At the end of the experiments the plaster was taken off strip
by strip by the committee, and it was found to be perfectly
secure, and the eyelids so completely glued together that it
was a work of some difficulty to get them open again. This
case is recorded, with the names of the committee, in the
Zoist, vol. iv., pp. 84—88; and I call the reader’s attention
to the completeness of the test here, and its demonstration of
the reality of clairvoyance.
Dr. Carpenter next comes to the work of Professor
Gregory {Letters on Animal Magnetism) and devotes several
pages to assertions as to the professor’s “ credulity,” the
“reprehensible facility” with which he accepted Major
Buckley’s statements, the “entire absence of detail” as to
“precautions against tricks,” and his utter failure to find a
clairvoyant to obtain Sir James Simpson’s bank note. “And
yet,” he says, referring especially to myself, “ there are even
now men of high scientific distinction who adduce Professor
Gregory’s testimony on this subject as unimpeachable!”
Readers who have accompanied me so far, will at least hesi¬
tate to accept Dr. Carpenter’s dictum on this point, till they
have heard what can be said on the other side. To give full
details would occupy far too much space, I must therefore
refer my readers to Professor Gregory’s book for some cases,
and give merely a brief outline of others. At page 394
(Case 29) is given in detail a most remarkable test-case, in
which Professor Gregory sent some handwriting from Edin¬
burgh to Dr. Haddock’s clairvoyant at Bolton ; who gave in
return a minute description of the writer, her appearance,
dress, house, illness, medical treatment, &c. At page 401
another test of the same kind is described. At page 403 a
number of such cases are summarised, and one very com¬
pletely given in detail. At page 423 is an account of a
clairvoyant boy at the house of Dr. Schmitz, Rector of the
High School at Edinburgh. This boy described Professor
Gregory’s house accurately, and the persons at that time in
the dining-room (afterwards ascertained to be correct). As a
further test Dr. Schmitz was asked to go into another room
with his son and do anything he liked. The boy then de¬
scribed their motions, their jumping about, the son going out
and coming in again, and the doctor beating his son with a roll
of paper. When Dr. Schmitz returned, Professor Gregory re¬
peated all the boy had said, which the doctor, much astonished,
declared to be correct in every particular. At page 445
(Case 42) is an account of another clairvoyant, a mechanic,
who described Professor Gregory’s house in detail, and saw a
lady sitting in a particular chair in the drawing-room read¬
ing a new book. On returning home the professor found
that Mrs. Gregory had, at the time, been sitting in that
particular chair, which she hardly ever was accustomed to
use, and was reading a new book which had been sent to her
just before, but of which the professor knew nothing. At
page 405 is a most remarkable case of the recovery of a
stolen watch, and detection of the thief in London by Dr.
Haddock’s clairvoyant at Bolton. The letters all passed
through Sir Walter C. Trevelyan, who showed them to Pro¬
fessor Gregory. At page 407 are the particulars of the
extraordinary discovery of the locality of travellers by means
of their handwriting only, sent from the Royal Geographical
* This is a constant feature of the true mesmeric trance, hut “Jack’s” accusers seem to
have known nothing about it.
if Society to Sir C. Trevelyan in Edinburgh, and by him to
i Bolton, he himself not knowing either the names of the
| travellers, or where they were. Many more cases might be
| referred to, but these are sufficient to show that there is not
| that “total absence of detail,” and of “precautions,” in
| Professor Gregory’s experiments, which is Dr. Carpenter’s
| reason for entirely ignoring them. In addition to this we
I have the account of Dr. J. Haddock, a physician practising
I at Bolton, of the girl Emma, who for nearly two years was
] under his care, and residing in his house. Many of Professor
| Gregory’s experiments, and those of Sir Walter Trevelyan,
| were made through this girl, and a full account of her
| wonderful clairvoyant powers is given by Dr. Haddock in the
I appendix to his Somnolysm and Psyckeism. She could not
j read, and did not even know her letters. The discovery of
| the stolen cashbox, and identification of the entirely unsus-
| pected thief, is given in full by Dr. Haddock, and is sum-
| marised in my Miracles and Modern Science, p. 64. Again,
I Dr. Herbert Mayo gives unexceptional personal testimony to
| clairvoyance at pages 167, 172, and 178 of his book on
| Popular Superstitions.
Dr. Carpenter is very severe on Professor Gregory for his
| belief in Major Buckley’s clairvoyants reading mottoes in
| nuts, but Major Buckley was a man of fortune and good
| position, who exercised his remarkable powers as a mesmeriser
I for the interest of it, and there is not the slightest ground
| for suggesting his untrustworthiness. We have besides the
| confirmatory testimony of other persons, among them of Dr.
| Ashburner, who frequently took nuts purchased by himself,
! and had them correctly read by the clairvoyants before they
were opened. {Ashburner's Philosophy of Animal Magnetism,
j p, 304.) Dr. Carpenter also doubts Professor Gregory’s
common sense in believing that a sealed letter had been read
unopened by a clairvoyant when it might have been opened
and resealed; but he omits to say that the envelopes were
expressly arranged to prevent their being opened without
detection, and that the professor adds, “ I have in my
possession one of the envelopes thus read, which has since
been opened, and I am convinced that the precautions taken
precluded any other than lucid vision.”*
Still more important, perhaps, is the testimony of many
eminent physicians to the existence of these remarkable
powers. Dr. Rostan, Parisian Professor of Medicine, in his
article “ Magnetisme,” in the Dictionnaire de Medecine, says
(as quoted by Dr. Lee), “ There are few things better de¬
monstrated than clairvoyance. I placed my watch at a
distance of three or four inches from the occiput of the
somnambulist, and asked her if she saw anything. ‘ Cer¬
tainly,’ she replied, ‘ it is a watch; ten minutes to eight.’
M. Ferrus repeated the experiment with the same successful
result. He turned the hands of his watch several times, and
we presented it to her without looking at it; she was not once
mistaken.” The Commissioners of the Royal Academie de
Medecine applied the excellent test of holding a finger on
each eyelid, when the clairvoyant still read the title of a
book, and distinguished cards. (Quoted in Dr. Lee’s Animal
Magnetism, p. 22.) Dr. Esdaile had a patient at Calcutta
who could hear and see through the stomach. This was
tested by himself with a watch, as in the French case quoted
above. {Zoist, vol. viii., p. 220.) Dr. Teste’s account of
the clairvoyance of Madame Hortense is very suggestive.
| She sometimes read with ease when completely bandaged,
| and when a paper was held between her eyes and the object;
Bf at other times she could see nothing, and the smallest
| fatigue or excitement caused this difference. This excessive
j delicacy of the conditions for successful clairvoyance render
| all public exhibitions unsatisfactory ; and Professor Gregory
I “protests against the notion that it is to be judged by the
H rough experiments of the public platform, or by such tests
H as can be publicly applied.” For the same reason direct
! money tests are always objected to by experienced mes-
! merisers, the excitement produced.by the knowledge of the
! stake or the importance of the particular test impairing or
destroying the lucidity. This is the reason why gentlemen
I and physicians like Professor Gregory, Major Buckley, and
* Dr. Carpenter says that “ the unsealing of letters and the resealing them so as to conceal
their having been opened” are practised in Continental post offices. No doubt this can he
done with an ordinary letter, hut it is no less certain that there are many ways of securing
a letter which absolutely preclude [its being done undetected, and Dr. Carpenter omits to
state that such precautions are here expressly mentioned by Professor Gregory as having
been used in these experiments.
July 13, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
21
Dr. Haddock, who have had the command of clairvoyants,
have not attempted to gain the bank-notes which have at
various times been offered. Dr. Carpenter was very irate
because I suggested at Glasgow—not, as he seems to have
understood, that there mas no note in Sir James Simpson’s
envelope—but that the clairvoyants themselves, if they heard
of it, might very well be excused if they thought it was a
trick to impose upon them. I find now that in the other
case quoted by Dr. Carpenter, the note for £100 publicly
stated to have been enclosed by Sir Philip Crampton in a
letter, and placed in a bank in Dublin, to become the pro¬
perty of any clairvoyant who should read the whole of it—
this was actually the case. After six months the letter was
opened, and the manager of the bank certified that it con¬
tained no note at all, but a blank cheque ! The correspond¬
ence on the subject is published in the Zoist, vol. x., p. 35.
Dr. Carpenter’s indignation was therefore misplaced ; for, as
a medical knight in Ireland did actually play such a trick,
the mere supposition on my part, that ignorant clairvoyants
might think that a medical knight in Scotland was capable
of doing the same, was not a very outrageous one.
©omspnirence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opppped.
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned i*5
copies should he icepthy the writers.1
MATERIALISATIONS OF SPIRIT FACES, NO. 4.
Sir,—For your last number there was time only for me to tell briefly
the fact that we had that day obtained the splendid culminating phe¬
nomena, never before witnessed by mortal eyes, of the whole bead of an
exquisitely lovely spirit-girl, plunged into melted paraffin down to the
root of the neck, and two or three inches further, so as to form upon that
face, and head, and neck, and that incipient bust, a paraffin mould, of
manifestly supreme beauty, out of which the head was afterwards with¬
drawn, or “ dematerialised,” so as to leave in our hands the empty
paraffin mould. This fact, visible and palpable, involves the necessary
conclusion that that lovely face and head, with its abundant coiffure
of hair in waves and curls, had passed out of that mould through the
small orifice (relatively) of that delicate neck. And we witnessed the
fact that it so passed out in an instant, in the twinkling of an eye.
I mentioned that it had been witnessed by the Count and Countess de
Bullet and myself. Our venerable friend, M. de Veh, had before wit¬
nessed with us the fact of a face-mould (up to behind the ears), having
resulted from a dipping made before our eyes, but he is no longer here.
The Count, Countess, and I were now the only outside witnesses, but
there are the moulds, with their resultant casts to testify for themselves.
They constitute conclusive evidence of the fact of a head, materialised
into a form of ideal beauty, unsurpassed by modern or ancient art,
having passed out of the relatively small orifice left by the neck, without
injury to that extremely fragile and brittle substance, melted paraffin re¬
solidified by dipping into cold water, while we are here to testify to the
instantaneousness of the operation.
No mode nor means are known to science or art by which this result
could be obtained. The Count has not only experimented on the toy
figures, common enough, which are cast by pressure from vulcanised
india-rubber, to see if it was possible to get them out of a paraffin mould
deposited upon them, without cutting or breaking the mould, and
ascertained that it was impossible, but he has also consulted the manu¬
facturers with the same result. Inflation of indiarubber on the prin¬
ciple of the toy balloons, followed by collapse through discharge of the
gas, is equally impossible as a means of getting out from inside the mould
the body on which it was formed by dipping into hot paraffin. The heat
would at once burst it. The only supposition, a little plausible, would be
that of the mould being first formed on a sculptured bust; then detached
by being carefully cut off in two or more pieces; then reconstituted by
their being as carefully put together again; and the sutures then
concealed on the outside by a fresh dipping into paraffin. But
they could not he concealed on the inside, which is perfectly visible
both through the neck opening, and by reason of the translucency of the
material. No, none of these fantastic suppositions avail, even if we
were not here—the Count, the Countess and myself, besides M. de Veh,
now in Russia—-to testify to all we have seen and participated in.* I
only refer to them because I know there is no straw too small for our
adversaries to clutch at when drowning in the sea of our evidence. No,
the truth, the fact is that a spirit head and neck got “ materialised,” or
made temporarily solid (and in angelic beauty); plunged itself several
times into the liquid paraffin; hardened and stiffened the paraffin mould
thus formed, by then plunging it into iced water ; and then disappeared
suddenly and instantaneously out of the mould left empty in the Count’s
hands. John King and we call this “ demaierialising ” it. Give it
whatever name you may prefer.
Now, here arises a very curious point. Did the spirit’s head thus
coated with and inclosed in a paraffin mould of it, then annihilate itself,
or get annihilated, as “matter,” and so disappear out of the fragile
mould left empty ? Did it pass out as a vapour or a gas ?—as some-
* Others will soon add their personal testimony to ours, as we have permission to bring in
a distinguished chemist, a friend of the Count’s, and in a few days we shall have here the
brother of Alexandrine, a distinguished and wealthy Russian gentleman, daily expected
from Vichy. I repeat also my suggestion to work in England in the same way, to reproduce
the same phenomenon for yourselves.
• | thing restored to its antecedent impalpable condition of what we mean
11 by what we call “ spirit ? ” No, not so in this instance at least. It was
11 not in this instance instantaneously restored to its anterior impalpable
> form or condition of “ spirit'' John King directed the Count to receive
| between his hands the mould (still having the “ materialised ” head in
> it, and still so hot as to call for some endurance to bear it), “Take it, and
> hold it on hath sides, and hold it firm, so that we may dematerialise it
better.” “ I hope it does not burn your hands ?” f* No, I can bear it.”
The Count then felt for a moment or two a sensible and considerable
)■ pull against his hold. “ Hold firm,” said John King, “so that it may
! not fall.” The Count did so. He was holding firm or pulling backward
! against a force which was pulling in the opposite direction. In an
| instant the opposite pull suddenly ceased; the empty mould remained in
I his hands; his counter-pull brought it back, so that the paraffin, still
I soft, reached and smeared the breast of his coat; he then let the empty
|| mould down into the iced water. And that is the way that that
II “ materialised ” head got “ dematerialised ’’ out of that paraffin mould I
>| I should here mention that three or four distinct dippings into the
i paraffin “barrel” had been made, each followed by a dipping into the
[ contiguous vessel of iced water. A short interval of pause or rest took
} place between them, with retirement behind the curtain. John had
( before said, and now repeated, that he would make the mould thicker
> this time than the former ones. Between each dipping he came
t out, with his light bright and strong, and held up and showed us the
\ mould, at these successive stages of its formation. The whole operation,
>j including the intervals of rest, may have taken a minute or two. It was
j | at once marvellous and beautiful to behold! I asked him next day
(| whether, when he had thus shown us the mould in the intervals between
) I the successive dippings, the head was inside it all the time. He at once
h answered, “ Why, yes, of course, how could it have been otherwise ?” I
(i replied, “ So I supposed, but I wanted to know for sure. I could
W imagine that her head might have been dematerialised out of it somehow
(j' in those intervals of rest, and then rematerialised back into it. I there-
ji fore asked you how it was.” “ Yes, she stayed in it, and was de-
) j materialised out of it at the end, when the mould had become thick enough.”
| In these intervals it was curious to hear also John’s voice behind the
y curtain, very low but distinctly audible, like a sort of stage “aside,”
| sustaining and encouraging her. “ That's very well—courage—now, once
11 more—don't be afraid—now, only once more—courage, courage.” All
j with such a simple tone of naturalness that no one could have heard
| and doubted the genuineness of it.
| Now all this throws a little light, if not upon the process of materiali-
| sation, at least upon the converse one of dematerialisation. I will not
! step even ankle deep into that sea of troubles, the transcendental meta-
11 physics of matter and mind, whether ontological or non-ontological,
11 both or either or neither. Non nobis, Domine ! I leave my friends,
j | Messrs. C. 0. Massey, 0. Carter Blake, and the other kindred big fish
i of metaphysics, to disport themselves at will, under the moonshine—(no
f) offence meant)—in that illimitable ocean, along with that whole school
|| of now-ghost leviathans, Berkeley, Kant, Fichte, Hegel, Schelling, &c.
j v But whether matter be a self-subsistent objective entity, or nothing but
i j a subjective idea of our own—-whether that division and subdivision of it
| j which we begin when we halve or quarter any bit of it, and which we can
| j j conceive as carried forward by gasification and successive further gasifi-
| | cation ad infinitum, so as to bring us down to the vanishing point where
| | it is and is not, or is just about not to be, and which shall land us by an
ill infinite leap at the supposed mathematical point of an “atom''—or a
lit “point of force”—or a point of “petrified spirit” (as I once heard
| | matter termed by a seemingly inspired trance medium, the young English
I \ j lad whose name I forget, but who is now travelling at the antipodes with
| | Mr. Peebles)—or as the negative pole of something of which spirit may
| i be the positive one (this being, perhaps, a fantastic notion of my own)—
j 11 whatever, I say, this mysterious Matter may be in its ontological essence
j i —here in this fact-phenomenon which I have narrated, we have some
j>| little light cast on the process of “dematerialisation,” as it has taken
I (! place. The cohesion of the atoms, or particles or parts of force—the
| | reciprocal attraction, if you like—the force that binds them together into
I )| cohesive “ solidity,” with defined limits of space, weight, &c.—seems to
I ! get relaxed. The mass becomes fluent, or semi-liquefied, as it were, by
| | that relaxation of attractive or compulsive cohesion, and then capable of
|) j being drawn or pulled through a small outlet; an orifice much smaller
| | than the diameter of the volume of space it before occupied. Thus did
! | j a whole head pass out of the orifice of the space of a neck. Thus, before,
| | did John King’s circular luminous stone, of nearly four inches in
j} | diameter, pass out of a hole in the rear of it (the hole left by the
|)| handle) of about three-quarters of an inch in diameter; John having
I (I first knocked sharply with it on the table to show that it was a hard
m! stone, and then having immediately knocked again with it on the
|) | musical box to show that it was still the same hard stone.
| (| Let me here ask the special attention of my good friend, Mr. Stainton-
| Moses, who seems to be particularly exercised at this time over the
|) i puzzle of “ Matter through Matter.” He has had a solid iron ring passed
j j j upon his solid arm, as a bracelet, while his hand was firmly grasping the
I j I hand at the end of another mortal man’s solid arm. Hundreds have
i(j witnessed the same or equivalent facts. I have often witnessed the
i (i passage of “ Matter through Matter ”; such as the passage of a floating
| | musical box to and fro through a locked door; coats on and off a medium
| (i securely bound, and so instantaneous that it was an affair of seconds
| j | only. When we see these things we must work and worry out some
| j i theory of conceivable explanation of them. Mine has long been that the
11! force which holds together into “ solidity ” the ultimate particles of the
| (! two bodies intended to pass through each other (call them atoms, or
i | points of force, or what you wiil), gets relaxed, suspended, or for the
iji moment overpowered, and the particles slip by each other like the
| j I bristles of two hair-brushes pressed together,. and then get instan-
I i taneously recomposed on the other side into their former condition.
i',! Where there is a hole or outlet for one body enclosed or enveloped in
22
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 13, 1877.
another (as in our present case of a whole head passing through the
orifice of a neck, or a round stone through that of the small hole left by
a handle), this suspension of the cohesion needs to be carried only so far
as to semi-liquefy, or make fluent, the body enclosed, which is then, can
be, and is, drawn out in the twinkling /of an eye through the orifice of
outlet. Once, after witnessing the mould of John King’s luminous stone
simply drop from it into the water, without our perceiving anything but
the stone itself remaining in unchanged form, brightness, and position,
at 12 to 18 inches from our eyes, while we heard the fall of the mould
away from it into the water, I broached that theory to him (J. K.), and
he answered that Yes, it was about right, or something like that (I am not
sure which expression he used). ‘‘ It becomes something like, what shall
I call it t—liquorice or toffy, and comes out, only so quick that you can’t
see it.” That implies that the wave of light was too short and fine for
our optic nerve to perceive it, somewhat, as I understand, that no ear can
perceive a vibration of sound beyond the point of 40,000 to the second.
But it is curious that the first time we witnessed this escape of the
luminous stone out of the orifice of the handle in the rear, Mrs. Birman,
who is clairvoyant, said she thought she had seen a sort of shaft or pencil
of light. "We did not see it, though we afterwards watched for it. Nor
did she ever again. I hope these observations may help Mr. Stainton-
Moses a little as to the problem of “ Matter through Matter.” When
John King said that I was “about right,” or that it was “ something
like that,” it was after I had stated the theory of the momentarily dis¬
integrated particles slipping by each other, as illustrated by the coarse
comparison of the two brushes.
I have nothing further to report in the way of what John calls the
“ bathing business.” After the full head obtained last Tuesday (June
26), he said we should leave it till next week, as it had been a “great
effort,’’and took a “great deal of power.” Ever since he has been
“ economising ” the power, besides waiting for better weather. I suggested
Tuesday (July 3) with a view to your receiving on Wednesday some
notice of what should occur. To-day he said he thought not on Tuesday,
that we must wait and be always ready to take advantage of opportunity.
I think we shall have to wait till the arrival of our Russian friend, the
brother of Alexandrine, from Vichy, In the meantime we have had very
little. One day we saw Glaucus and Alexandrine, well formed and
under very good light. Alexandrine was not (as generally before) ivory-
pale, but exhibited full colour, especially in the cheeks. It looked as
though the prick of a pin must have drawn a good drop of blood. We
noticed a sort of band crossing her shoulders, which was new to us.
She afterwards wrote :—“ The little band across my shoulders is a part
of my dress ; for the day I made my mould I had a dress formed square,
and I did hope-to be able to give my shoulders ” The day after that on
which we got the full head (27th) the spirit wrote :—“ I could not form
my cross yesterday, as the mould broke just in the bend of the neck,
leaving the cross untouched, but when I try again I will do it, I hope.”
The Count had formerly expressed the hope that her cross, which he had
given her, and which she often shows pendant a little below her neck,
would appear on her mould. A few days after, we had been talking
about the hoped-for success of the cast in alabaster, when we should
receive it from the drying oven of the plasterer, and she wrote:—*
tl I hope you will be pleased, with the cast. I tried to let-my hair fall
loosely over my shoulders, but it was too much trouble. I had to turn it
up, so that may make me look a little different.” On the day it was
taken she wrote:—“ It has cost me a great effort to-day, for you knoiv
it is not a very pleasant thing to dip our head into so much grease. I hope
your wife thinks it is a good likeness of me.” I have before mentioned
how Alexandrine, after the successful mould of her face, wrote that she
had turned her head a little on one side, “ to give myself a little grace.”
How strange all this reads, from spirits—yet how real and natural
from spirits who are still young girls, however angelic in beauty and
condition. It seems to me to form a proper part of this record.
I regret to say that the beautiful and perfect mould of the face of
Alexandrine will probably turn out a failure in the cast, for the
plasterer reports the paraffin, which softens under the heat of the
weather and the further heat of his shop, to have partially given way
and fallen in. This is a considerable difficulty to be contended with at
ibis season. The Count is experimenting on stiffening and strengthening
the paraffin with wax or stearine, not wishing to employ other poisonous
substances, such as arsenic, which might be used. To the mould of
the full head we gave an outside coating of liquid alabaster, which you
will perceive smeared over it in the two photographs of the mould
before casting, which I hope in a few days to send for your reading
room. Before thus treating the mould (for the purpose of strengthening
it for safe carriage) we could distinguish, by reason of its translucency
when held up against the window, the beauty of the inside where the
face was, which of course you cannot see in the photographs of the
outside. Below the photographs of the head (front and profile) you will ■
observe two of the casts of John King’s stone, selected from the several
we have. One has the usual fine cloth envelope, the gathered-up ends
of which ordinarily constitute a handle; the other is naked, a spon¬
taneous handle having grown out of it behind, in solid union with the
stone itself. The orifice in one of the moulds was not more than three-
fourths of an inch in diameter. In these two it is longer.
We had the other day the experience of John King, extending his
two arms in attitude of apparent benediction, above and in front of
the Count and myself; then laying them on our respective heads; then
raising the Count’s hand as high as the latter could stretch; then
practising certain caresses on his face ; then raising my hand and arm
till I had to mount on my chair to follow, and till he struck the ceiling
with my hand so that I told him not to hurt me, which he declared he
would not do ; then pressing his face to mine till he broke my spectacles,
making it necessary for me to buy a new pair—a very material proof of
reality. He said, “ Take care the broken glass does not get into your eye.
Jf I had money I would put my hand in my pocket and tell you to get a
new pair,” “Ob! John; I know that your money there consists of
! kind feelings, and thoughts, and deeds.” “ Well, I can give you plenty
ji of that money, but I am afraid it won't buy you a new pair of spectacles
i now.”.
i To-day he gave me a regular scolding, because, in the earlier part of
ji this letter, as drafted, but not yet posted, I had invited Professor
! I Tyndall and Dr. Carpenter to come over here and see these moulds for
} j themselves, which he said would do no good, and only disturb the
j | delicate conditions under which he had to act. But he presently made
ij it up to me, by showing my mother under a strong light (whom I
(I had not seen for a long time), and she put forth her hand and took
I from the table where it lay in front of me (waiting opportunity of
| delivery, according to what had been before promised) my carte-de-
i visite photograph ! He afterwards said it gave her great pleasure, and
j j he repeated his request to the Count for his for himself, or, rather, he
) | again inquired when it would be ready.
j i John also told us to-day that for the purpose of sending away we
i i could have as many head casts made as we pleased of “ Akosus ” (the
• j handsome Greek), and of the “little Indian.” This increases to eight
[ j the number of head-moulds which have been promised,
ij J. L. O’Sullivan.
' I Paris, July 2nd,  
11 INCUBI AND SUCCUBA3.
| j Sib,—I am afraid that the above subject is scarcely fit for discussion
in this canting time, when harmless works, written with the highest
moral intentions, are exposed to the vituperation of the rabble. But to
! those who would care to inquire more, I would suggest reference to La
! Croix and Sere’s large work Sur le Moyen Age. The smaller edition
j is not meant by me. A poetical work by a Russian lyric writer, an
English translation of which was published by Messrs. Triibner about
j two years ago, called The Demon, will supply the curious inquirer with
j some ideas. It is much to be desired that such delicate subjects should
j not be treated with levity. C. Caeteb Blake.
j i ' SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
] j! Sir,—There has lately been a recovery from our Antipodean con-
i (j valescence in Spiritualism. Melbourne is the head centre of our
! j! brotherhood in these colonies, for, as you are aware, it possesses the only
ijj. periodical advocating the harmonial principles, and the only bookstore
j(j through which the extensive literature of the movement can reach the
III masses. Both of these are under the supervision of Mr. W. H. Terry,
| j | who is untiring in his efforts, and patient in the propagation of unpopular
| | truths among the rapidly increasing thousands to whom Spiritualism is
!|jr more than a name. The only circles at which physical manifestations
j j: * are obtained, are some two or three private gatherings in the country.
(| The author of The Holy Truth, one of the most energetic exponents of
14 the doctrines of Spiritualism, and who is still issuing at his own
j| expense a gratuitous series of Radical tracts, has a large semi-public
(I circle, at which a great number of convincing tests have been obtained
j by strangers. Circles for the various mental phases are scattered
j| throughout the suburbs, and a few may be found in the interior, but
(j being as a rule strictly exclusive, their beneficial effects are limited to
11 the sitters. The most convincing evidence presented to the public is
i that of medical clairvoyance, which has several practitioners here who
I j are successful to a remarkable degree in cases which have exhausted
? I the resources of allopathy and homoeopathy alike.
| The great event in our recent history, however, has been the visit of
(| Mr. J. M. Peebles, who was with us some four years since. His recep-
(I tion this time shows a marked improvement in the tone of the press
jj (whose scurrility has become a mild ridicule), and in the general feeling
II of the citizens, who have crowded the Opera House (our second largest
j| theatre) every Sunday evening to listen to his interesting discourses,
j | The conduct of the audiences has been highly satisfactory, for they have
j | not only listened with attention, but their approval was manifested in
/ i an almost uncontrollable disposition to applaud. The religious tendency
j | of Mr. Peebles’ addresses, no less than their suave geniality, and often
| eloquent earnestness, have made him a favourite even with numbers of
| our opponents. His sixth and last lecture was the subject of unanimous
j! praise from the 2,500 people with whom the galleries were packed after
) | numbers had been turned away. After some up-country lectures he left
J! for Sydney, where he is expected to remain a month prior to the delivery
11 of his farewell course here.
Mr. Tyerman has for the past three years spoken at the Victoria
11 Theatre, Sydney, on the liberal questions of the day in connection with
11 Spiritualism, but his health having broken down under excessive intel-
'i lectual labour, he is compelled to retire from the field for a month or
| i two. His absence is much regretted, but in the interim Mrs. Williams
11 (daughter of G. P. R. James) will fill the post he was expected to take
with us during Mr. Peebles’ stay in New South Wales. She is a most
[I efficient substitute, a skilled elocutionist, and of scholarly culture, who
i j we rely upon to maintain the interest awakened by the “ pilgrim’s ”
1! visit. It is hoped that he will find time to call at Adelaide—a place
11 hitherto entirely neglected to the theological element, though it has one
i j clergyman, a Spiritualist, and a small Freethought Association struggling
j into recognition. Queensland and New Zealand have but few Spirit-
'j ualists, though Mr. Thomas Walker, the trance medium, did very well-
there, and is shortly expected- in Victoria. In Sydney he was favourably
; listened to, and Mr. Peebles’ first lecture there has proved a decided ■
triumph.
Our only public efforts are recorded in the Harbinger of Light, a wel-
| come guest in many households. It presents an excellent appearance,
j and maintains a steady circulation over a very wide area; and The
j Lyceum holds sessions every Sunday morning, under the conductorship
| of Mr. Brotherton; the meetings are well attended, promising us the ■
best results in the future. We can point with pride to both of these,
j their standards being far above the parallel institutions of orthodoxy;
1 their management reflects the greatest credit upon their staffs. We need
23
July 13, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST.
an organisation sorely, and are in great hopes of establishing one in a
few weeks, which shall control the irregular efforts so often foiled by
lack od tliis most essential requisite. Generally speaking the prospects
of Spiritualism in these quarters were never brighter, and if such a
union can be effected, we may rest assured of a stable and increasing
power of helpfulness. A really good materialisation or test medium
would do as well as G. H. Foster did. There is a rumour that Dr. Slade
will call on us. If so, he will undoubtedly reap a golden harvest, as
well as advance the cause we all cherish.
In concluding, allow me to express my appreciation of the high tone
of The Spiritualist, and the praiseworthy exertions of the British Asso¬
ciation in the direction of scientific research and harmonious activity.
When you can present such masterly productions as those of “ M.A.
(Oxon)” and Mr. T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., which are sources of constant
delight and instruction, we feel certain that all must go well with you,
in spite of legislative injustice and legal trickery, while their writings
find earnest students and admirers even as far as the “ Queen City of
the South.” Alfred Deakin.
Melbourne, May 12th, 1877.
THE PAINTING MEDIUMSHIP OF DAVID DUGUID.
Sir,—In your issue of the 6th inst., I saw Dr. Robert Wyld’s account
of a sitting with David Duguid, to whose mediumship we are indebted
for the good book called Hafed. I sat with David the day before
(Thursday, 21st July, 1877) Dr. Wyldand his friends sat, and have very
great pleasure in corroborating all that Dr. Wyld has stated. I have
(as proof that I did not fancy I saw a picture) four pictures done in my
presence. The first was done on a card, about 9 in. by 12 in., with the
eyes of the medium quite closed, his head most of the time being turned
upwards towards the ceiling. The other three pictures were done
“direct,’’ without mortal contact, under exactly the same conditions as
stated by Dr. Wyld. I had to leave the pictures with Mr. Bowman for
eight or ten days to dry, as I feared they would get smeared; they were
quite wet with the freshly applied pigments. I shall have these pictures
—as proofs of an objective nature—when I reach the Cape, to show any
one who doubts my evidence.
I am sorry Dr. Wyld has not had sufficient tests to convince him of
the objectivity of spiritual phenomena. The most convincing are usually
those of a personal nature, and not always obtainable, the “ conditions ”
being wanting. If Dr. Wyld will analyse my statement (in the same
issue as his letter) of an account of piano-playing in the light, without
mortal contact, I think, if he considers my report as accurate as his
own, he must come to the conclusion that whatever the intelligence is, it,
in nearly all cases, possesses all the attributes and functions of human
beings. I have had convincing tests through the organs of sight, sound,
feeling, and smelling, from my own relations, and if this is due to some
new force, then I am nothing but a peripatetic mass made of earth, and
every record of spiritual phenomena in the Bible deals with a mere
force unworthy of our attention.
I forgot to state that during the sitting with Duguid we had splendid
scents made—they said by the Indian guides—besides excellent physical
manifestations in the shape of the musical box being wound up and set
going or stopped at our request; and once it was put into my hands, the
medium being under test conditions.
If we are told, and believe, that some of our greatest sculptors were
totally blind, surely it is not too much to ask the public, who know
nothing of painting mediumship, to believe the evidence of such erudite
men as Dr. Wyld as proof of paintings being produced without eyesight
and without mortal contact.
I leave for the Cape on the 13th inst., and take back many pleasant
reminiscences of Spiritualism in England. T. Berks Hutchinson,
Of Cape Town, South Africa.
London, July 8th, 1877.
MAGIC AND LAW.
From the “Haverfordwest Telegraphf
It is by no means a hopeful sign of the times that in England
during the last twelve months it has on several occasions been thought
necessary to invoke the law to check the malign influence of belief in
magic. It may be absolutely requisite for the protection of the weakest
and most credulous portion of the community that the law should at
times interfere to protect them from the consequences of their own
folly ; but such interference should be limited to extreme instances,
and, if really unavoidable, is at best but a necessary evil. There are
certain specifics for human diseases which are indeed remedies, but
whose effects are often nearly as bad as those of the ailments they are
employed to cure. And so, in the social world, there are often means
employed for the counteraction of admitted evils which partially attain
their immediate end at the cost of detriment quite as serious to the
tone and interests of the community as the mischief they are intended
to neutralise. Hence, we can never read of a case in which the law is
called upon to punish impostures associated with belief in magic
without a feeling of regret. Such proceedings are, in our view, too
nearly allied to the bygone trials for witchcraft to be altogether satis¬
factory. Of course, we are aware that the resemblance is far from
perfect. It may be said that in the former case of procedure the law
was invoked on the side of superstition ; in the latter, to counteract
its mischievous effects. This is true; yet in both cases there is an
interference with matters of individual belief savouring more of the
spiritual despotism of the past than of the intellectual freedom of the
present. The prosecution of Dr. Slade, the American Spiritualist, is a
case in point. The fullest and fairest trial which that case can possibly
undergo must necessarily be influenced by the belief or disbelief in
Spiritualism of the parties concerned. It is quite impossible that the
question whether Dr. Slade is or is not an impostor can be treated in
perfect independence of the question whether the claims of Spiritualism
are, on the whole, true or false. The case of Dr. Slade has been com-
i pared and contrasted with that of a certain fortune-teller, named
I John Ball, who not very long ago was sentenced to three months’
j imprisonment and hard labour on being convicted of the practice of
j his craft. It has been said that the trades pursued by this obscure
pretender to the gift of divination and the celebrated American
II Spiritualist are essentially the same, and that if it be right that the
i i one should suffer punishment by the law, the other ought not to be
[ i permitted to pursue his career with impunity. The two cases are so
11 far alike that each of them involves the question, how ought the law
I j to deal with persons who make a trade of their presumed possession of
II supernatural gifts 1 Ball was convicted under an Act passed in the
)j reign of George IV., which distinctly enjoins that any persons pro-
)! fessing to tell fortunes, using any subtle craft, means, or device, by
ji palmistry or otherwise, to deceive or impose upon any of His Majesty’s
(j subjects, are to be deemed rogues and vagabonds, and punished with
) ] imprisonment and hard labour for a period not exceeding three months.
| ] Now, at the risk of differing from many of our readers, we venture to
(| question the defensibility of this enactment, either on the grounds of
j; abstract justice or of ultimate expediency. It assumes that the
jj practice of fortune-telling is necessarily the practice of imposture,
with the same arbitrariness of decision as that with which, in laws
)j long since abolished, witchcraft was assumed to be an undoubted fact,
fi The laws against sorcery were retained during a period when the most
|! enlightened portion of the nation had ceased to believe that such a
5 j crime had any existence. The law against fortune-telling is based on
(j the assumption that it is the practice of a falsehood, and continues in
11 force whilst hundreds of thousands of Her Majesty’s subjects believe
51 it to be the expression of a truth, and, consequently, not only innocent,
(| but laudable. In both instances the collective opinion of the British
(i Parliament on a question relating to the supernatural is made the basis
jj of legislation. Surely this is hardly in accordance with our modern
! j ideas of the right of freedom of thought, or with the general tenour of
); British law ! In no other instance that we can call to mind does our
j I law interfere with the course of action to which any man’s opinions
j j may lead him, provided he stops short of causing serious peril to the public
)! safety; and it can hardly be pretended that the swindling of a few
jj score of dupes out of their pence or pounds is a crime involving detri-
(I . ment to the public interests serious enough to render necessary the
i infringement of so important a principle as that of absolute non-
jj interference with opinion. Interference by law in cases of alleged
< j imposture, either by fortune-telling or Spiritualism will, in our j udg-
j ment, by creating a sense of grievance, only confirm the delusion and
j multiply the numbers of the dupes of such persons as John Ball and
(j Dr. Slade.
I j THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
jj: MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
IJ j Last Tuesday, at the ordinary monthly meeting of the Council of the
ijj National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Alexander Calder, president,
! j j occupied the chair. The other members present were Dr. George Wyld,
j j Mr. Benjamin Coleman, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs. Desmond
j } Fitz-Gerald, the Rev. W. W. Newbould, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory,
j j Mr. C. C. Massey, the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Mrs. Maltby,
| Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Mrs. Lowe, Miss Withall, Mr. E.
jf T. Bennett, Miss Houghton, and Mr. C. Pearson,
jj! Messrs. T. Berks Hutchinson, H. Freund, W. C. Robson, and E.
j |! Sharpe were elected ordinary members.
ij; The report of the Finance Committee showed a balance in hand of
ijj £98 16s. 4d.; it recommended payments to the amount of £73 18s., and
j j j estimated the outstanding liabilities of the Association at £10.
iji The secretary announced that the Baron and Baroness von Vay
ijl would be in London during the first week in August. Mr. Coleman
iji moved, and Miss Houghton seconded, that a suitable public reception
ijj be given to them by the National Association of Spiritualists. This
j j j was carried unanimously, and the carrying out of the resolution was
j j j entrusted to the Soiree Committee.
||l On the motion of Mr. Dawson Rogers, seconded by Mr. Bennett, it
j j was resolved that the arrangements for the performance of the secretary’s
j j duties during her absence be made by the House Committee,
j j j Presents to the library of books by Captain James-, M. Smythe, Miss
j j A. Blackwell, Mr. A. Vacher, and Mr. W. H. Harrison were announced,
Ms and votes of thanks awarded.
j j Mr. C. C. Massey, in the absence of Mr. A. Joy, moved that the hour
ijj of meeting of the Council be changed from 6.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. He
j j said it was merely a question of personal convenience, which could be
j j best decided by taking the votes of those present,
j j After much discussion, and several divisions, it was resolved not to
ijl alter the present time of'meeting.
M j On the motion of Mr. Pearson it was resolved to forward a letter of
;j j condolence to the nearest relatives of the late Mr. Dale Owen,
j j The proceedings then closed.
Mr. George Farmer, late editor of Vao Pioneer of Progress, has
returned to England. During his travels in America he did not
visit the United States,
The “ Spiritual Scientist.”—A private letter informs us that the
Spiritual Scientist, of Boston, which has come to hand so irregularly in
this country of late, died a fortnight ago. Although the editor meant
well, the journal was so constantly censuring everybody, as to contain
within itself the . elements of unpopularity, consequently of dissolution.
Nevertheless, we regret its disappearance. There are rumours that it
will be resurrected next September..
24
July 13, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
^cetrg.
CLEOPATBA DYING. j
Sinks the sun below/the desert,
Golden glows the sluggish Nile;
Purple flame crowns spring and temple,
Lights up every ancient pile
Where the old gods now are sleeping.
Isis, and Osiris great,
Guard me, help me, give me courage
Like a queen to meet my fate 1
I am dying, Egypt, dying!
Let the Caesar’s army come;
I will cheat him of his glory,
Though beyond the Styx I roam.
Shall he drag this beauty with him,
While the crowd his triumph sings ?
No, no, never I I will show him
What lies in the blood of kings.
Though he hold the golden sceptre,
Rule the Pharaoh’s sunny land,
Where old Nilus rolls resistless
Through the sweeps of silvery sand, 11
He shall never say I met him, ;
Fawning, abject, like a slave ; j
I will foil him, though to do it j
.1 must cross the Stygian wave !
Oh, my hero ! sleeping, sleeping, i
Shall I meet you on the shore ]!
Of Plutonian shadows ? Shall we I j
In death meet and love once more ? i j
See, I follow in your footsteps, I (
Scorn the Caesar and his might; j j
For your love I will leap boldly ]}
Into realms of death and night. j
Down below the desert sinking, j J
Fades Apollo’s brilliant car, !)
And from out the distant azure j (
Glistens bright the evening star. | (
YenuS, queen of love and beauty, ; )
Welcome me to love’s embrace ; j |
Dying I free, proud, and triumphant, j (
The last sovereign of my race! ! (
Dying 1 dying! I am coming, i 1
Oh, my hero, to your arms 1 j (
You will welcome me, I know it— | j
Guard me from all rude alarms. ! (
Hark! I hear the legions coming, i}
Hear their cries of triumph swell;
But proud Csesar, dead I scorn you t j j
Egypt! Antony 1 Farewell! ]
Banner of Light.
J (
ON THE CLAIEYOYANCE OF ALEXIS DIDIER. J
BY CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES. j |
In my article on Mesmerism, which appeared in The j j
Spiritualist of the 6th instant, I had occasion to allude to j j
the clairvoyance of Alexis Didier, the famous somnambulist, j |
who created so much sensation and controversy more than ! j
thirty years ago. j
I now wish to make a few remarks on some of the j
peculiarities of Alexis’s powers, which may also be applicable i
to the powers and peculiarities of other clairvoyants. j
It may be as well to preface my narrative with an account j
of two or three experiments tried to test his clairvoyance, [ j
which have never before been published. j j
I shall confine myself to my own personal experience, for j
were I to attempt to chronicle all the experiments made by j j
other investigators in my presence, there would be a veritable I j
embarras de richesse. I j
On one occasion at my own house, he succeeded in reading I j
a short sentence enclosed in several pieces of paper, and | |
placed in an envelope; this he did immediately, and without | |
any hesitation, merely squeezing my hand. At the same I
seance I presented another packet, carefully prepared so that j j
neither by candle light nor daylight could the word be j
deciphered by ordinary vision. This packet Alexis placed on j
his forehead, and suddenly exclaimed in French : “ Ah ! it j
is the name of a woman,” and taking a pencil he wrote j
down, “ Virginie,” which was correct. I j
On another occasion I laid before him a Seidlitz powder j
box, containing a bronze medal of the young King Louis j
XVII., packed in jeweller’s cotton wool to prevent the medal j
shaking and betraying its metallic substance. I
The box was enclosed in paper, and the envelope was j |
sealed. He pressed my hand, and said, u Pensez-y-bien” j !
and then in French described what he saw in the following j j
broken sentences: “The object is made of metal. It is j j
neither gold nor silver. It is brass ; it is a medal; I see the j j
head of a king; of a French king; on the other side is a
broken flower.” He was quite correct, for on the reverse of
the medal was a broken lily. He could not name the king,
although the name was in my own mind. His observations
were made piecemeal, accompanied with nervous twitchings
of the features.
In the above experiments he was not assisted by any
remarks.
Much harm is done by kindly-disposed persons correcting
the mistakes of a clairvoyant, for by so doing they lead him
to contract a habit of guessing, which would soon destroy, or
at least injure his lucidity. The person trying the experi¬
ment should neither say “ Yes” nor “ Ho,” but wait
patiently until the sensitive has finished his attempt. Should
he succeed, well and good; when he fails, try again.
Alexis, when trying to read any word or words, would
sometimes read them off without hesitation, but at other
times when the power was not so strong he would think
aloud, giving letters and words as they appeared to him,
then would correct himself, much like any individual strain¬
ing his eyes to perceive some distant or very indistinct object.
It was the same with any article enclosed in a box and pre¬
sented to him for description ; he would sometimes at once
declare the nature of the article and any history connected
with it; and at other times would work dut his task with
painful efforts, accompanied by distortion of the features.
Sometimes his power seemed to come in flashes and then
suddenly depart; at other times he was lucid and successful
all through a seance, his condition probably varying accord¬
ing to the state of his health, the surrounding conditions, or
even the state of the atmosphere.
I remember being present at one of his stances at Dover,
when for about the first half hour he appeared dull and
spiritless and even unwilling to play at his favourite
game of tcarte, when suddenly a violent thunderstorm broke
over the town. When the storm ceased, Alexis seemed
endowed with fresh life: he recovered his spirits, and was
remarkably successful with all the experiments. At some
seances I have seen him succeed in nearly every experiment,
and at others make many mistakes. At a stance in London
at which I was present, Alexis was surrounded by a number
of hard-headed sceptics; some of them of the legal and
medical professions, and two or three belonging to the Stock
Exchange. The latter are not generally considered to be the
least acute members of the community, and yet he succeeded
in every test. From that party he proceeded to the house of
one of the members of the Government, where, I afterwards
heard that he completely failed.
This fluctuation of power I have observed in my own
clairvoyant patient, and shall always expect to find an alter¬
nation of success and failure in a genuine case; in cases of
jugglery and collusion the imitators never fail.
Alexis when in London was overworked, sometimes giving
three or four, or even more stances in one day, and occa¬
sionally the treatment he received might be described as
barbarous and eminently unscientific, although perpetrated
by so-called scientific men. The crowded rooms, people
pressing around him, each man anxious to try his own ex¬
periment, the tight bandaging of his eyes with handkerchiefs
tied over cotton wool, were all unfavourable conditions. At
times his eyes were covered over with leather gummed to his
forehead and cheeks, so that on one occasion, on taking off the
leather several hairs were torn from his eyebrows and eye¬
lashes. This treatment, and the constant working and ex¬
citement of the brain, must have caused so great an expendi¬
ture of nervous energy—the wonder is, not that he should
have sometimes failed, but that he should have so often
succeeded in quite a number of successive experiments.
I am aware that these instances of clairvoyance in
mesmeric sensitives may appear tame and trivial in compari¬
son with the wonders we hear of in the present day as mani¬
fested by so-called spiritual mediums. It would be interest¬
ing, however, if psychologists would turn their attention to
both classes of phenomena, compare them, and see whether
there be any relationship between what is called mesmerism
and what is generally understood as Spiritualism ; also what
resemblances and what differences may be found between the
psychological and physiological states of mesmeric sensi¬
tives and spiritual mediums.
Tottenham, July 6th,
July 13, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbiary,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualismby a competent observer,
; - who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn ifrom
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
" price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb-
mg interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
Sablished to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
le physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.‘
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 16s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, hy an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium nght. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
leving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit, ikno.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens’ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals fwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the nairatives
therefore narrows itself down to'the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant pjaces on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair-
■ voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 2te.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, ids. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. .,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. fid.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by CoraL. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Sees'." ». d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations " . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . • .76
The Seer. „ III, „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ Y. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
l Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .86
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . , .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . .30
Morning Lectures 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spibituawst Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 O
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A^ Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confticius. Translated into English
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D.,LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Gongestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .26
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . • . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 a
CARTE DE VISITS PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr, William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITS PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
AMERICAN PAMPHLETS.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. Is.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychom.etrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. Is. fid.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
Is.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase, is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning, fid.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R T.
Hallock. Soiled, Is.
THE LIFE OF MARY WHITTEY, the Catholic
Medium, by A. B. Dorman, of Connecticut, is.
THE VOICE OF PRAYER, a Poem by W. S. Barlow.
6d.
NEW TESTAMENT MIRACLES AND MODERN
MIRACLES COMPARED, by J. H. Fowler. 2s.
PHILOSOPHY OF SPECIAL PROVIDENCES, A
Vision, by Andrew Jackson Davis. In paper wrapper, Is.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC’’ an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267,High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Mediumship t its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.: or six copies post free
for fid.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
July 13, 1877,
HE GREAT QUESTION OF THE DAY.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
hut True.
How long are we to he left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
oases annually of. illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PBINOE
AliBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS. —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quietly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant,- refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, END’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of ils use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, ICth edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
END’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick. Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., LA.C., London, writes:—
* I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“Ifeel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say : “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers whoget it almost alway s recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
• “ M. BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists,.price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE BEBAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX.
THE REALITY OF SPIRIT - ^
PROVED FROM RECORDS AND WORKS ON THE
SUBJECT.-
BY “M.A. (OXON.).”
Introductory Chapter.—The general aspect of the subject:
its many-sidedness. Certain broad views to be more par¬
ticularly illustrated in subsequent sections. The claims and
present position of Spiritualism.
SECTION I.
Historical.—A retrospect of the history of the subject, illus¬
trated from Epes Sargent’s Planchette (reviewed), Mrs.
Hardinge Britten's History of American Spiritualism,
Wallace’s Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, Howitt’s
History of the Supernatural, Shorter’s Two Worlds, Judge
Edmond's Tracts.
SECTION II.
Scientific.—Dealing with some aspects of the phenomena of
Spiritualism in reference to theories and explanations that
have been given. Hudson Tuttle’s Arcana <f Spiritualism,
(reviewed), Hare’s Spiritualism Scientifically Explained,
Crooke's Researches, De. Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit.
SECTION III.
Phenomenal.—Dealing with published accounts of form-
manifesta'tion, especially from Olcott’s People from the
Other World (reviewed). Epes Sargent’s Proof Palpable of
Immortality, Wolfe’s Startling Facts in Modern Spirit¬
ualism.
SECTION IV.
Religious.—Showing the religious side of the subject as
brought out in Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modern
Spiritualism (reviewed), Dale Owen’s Address to the Clergy
in his Debateable Land, S. C. Hall’s Use of Spiritualism.
SECTION V.
Clairvoyance.—Dealing with the inherent powers of the
incarnate human spirit, especially that of clear-seeing or
supersensuous perception, as exemplifled in simple dear-
sight or psychometrical’y in Denton’s Soul of Things, and
I Andrew J. Davis’s . Magic Staff (reviewed), Cahagnet’s
Arcana de la vie Future.
SECTION VI.
. Occultism.—Dealing further with certain occult powers of
the human spirit, and with phenomena attributable to them,
as shown in Art-Magic, Ghost-Land (reviewed), and further
illustrated by records of phenomena hitherto unpublished.
THE TRANS-CORPOREAL ACTION OF SPIRIT,
Especially during Sleep: Immediately Before, and at
the Time of Deaih: and under some Strong Passion
or Emotion.
[This will form a considerable section, distinct from the rest
of the book: and will include a large number of facts, new
and old, arranged on the principle of reference to their deter¬
mining cause, where such can be ascertained.]
NOTE.—The above scheme of the book of essays and
reviews previously announced, is a draft only, subject to any
alterations that may be deemed desirable. It is published
in compliance with a request from many sources for informa¬
tion as to the title and scope of the work. The title now
affixed explains what is intended. The scope of the work is
to notice some aspects of Spiritualism as they are presented in
the works of other authors; and so to point out and summarise
the best books cn the subject.
Though the plan may be modified, it will not be substan¬
tially changed.
The sections which deal with the phenomenal and religious
aspects will be so arranged as not to trench on the works
announced for future publication—Spirit Teachings and
Researches in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism.
M. A. OXON.
The volume will be published at 10s. The names of sub¬
scribers should be sent to F. Percival, 15, Conduit-street, W.
London, May, 1877.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found’in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage?” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to got the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “ Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition,
Will be out in a few days, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or
five copies post free for 21s. Subscribers will be supplied with
early copies, in the rotation in which their orders and remit¬
tances are sent. Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—^Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions m
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which ' they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:— Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Symx)athy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—^Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—^Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal' induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER Xlil:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine (.Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s'Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clakvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Oases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—.Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
’ORES BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Bkotheb,s, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Greeds, 5s. Trubner & Go.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
LITERARY.-—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address C.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.C.
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7.30.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn.
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
