Besistkrbd is i Newspaper,
S]\[©
#lb,est Stfe ^^rxiaalism m feat §rxtam*
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosquo 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
JVO. 281. (VOL. XII.—No. 2.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontenta.
Various Manifestations, and Speculations thereon. By
William H. Harrison:—Seances with Miss K. Cook—
The Philosophy of Form-Manifestations   
Spirit Drapery    ... ...   
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Seances
for Inquirers   ... ... ... ' 
The Views of the Theosophists. By M.A., Oxon....,  
The Spiritual Body. By Epes Sargent ...  
A Strange Visitation. By E. A. Gomes  ... ...
Correspondence:—Speculations on Spiritual Agencies—A
Seance on New Year’s Night—What is the Intelligence ?
Hindu Psychology—Present or Departed ?—What is the
Intelligence?—What Truth is there in Astrology?—
Haunted Houses     ... ... ... ( 
Dr. Carpenter’s Criticisms. By the Rev. C. Maurice Da¬
vies, D.D     ... ...   
Seances in the Light...' ' ...   ' ... ...
Seances in New York:—Slate-Writing Phenomena—The
, Transportation of Flowers ... ... ...    ...
Poetry:—Without and Within—A Castle in the Air ... _...
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting
of the Council ... ... i  ...  
Answers to Correspondents 
Paragraphs:—Dr. Davies’s Lectures, 17 ; Strange Scene at
the House of a Spiritualist   
13
15
15
16
17
18
19
23
23
23
24
24
24
17
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
nHHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in • the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ot Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;\His imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenherg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson,;F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
sham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling<
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ^United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson.'M.D. (Australia): and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd. ;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ehurchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Bnda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for January, 1878.
Friday, Wth.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
W. EglintOn.
Monday, XMh.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
Tuesday, 15£7».—^Inspirational Address, at 8 p.m. Mr.
W. J. Colville.
Wednesday, 16th.—Inquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. W.
Eglinton.
Friday, 16th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ i, ■ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
W. Eglinton.
Tuesday, Tlnd.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ ,, Inspirational Address at 8 p.m. Mr.
W. J. Colville.
Friday, 1$th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Monday 28£7i.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
Tuesday 29£7t.—Inspirational Address, at 8 p.m. Mr.
W. J. Colville.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION.
On Monday, 14th, Mr. T. Shorter will read a paper upon
“ Form Manifestations; are they due to Embodied or Dis¬
embodied Spirits ? ” Time, 7.45 p.m.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c,, apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. Sec.
Mr. MORSE WILL SPEAK AT THE
FOLLOWING PLACES:—Liverpool: Sunday, Jan.
13,11 and 6.30; Hyde: Monday, January 14, 7.30 ; Rhodes:
Tuesday, January 15, 7.30 ; Manchester, Wednesday, January
16,7.30; New Mills: Thursday, January 17,7.30; Littleborough:
Friday, January 18, 7.30; Oldham: Sunday, January 20, 2;30
and 6.30 ; Rochdale : Monday, January 21st, 7.30 ; Burnley:
Tuesday, January 22, 7.30; Bolton: Wednesday, January 23,
7.30 ; Bury: Thursday, January 24,7.80 ; Manchester: Friday,
January 25, 7.30. John Lament, President; Charles Parsons,
Secretary.
Heaven opened,- or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
Just published, price 5s., richly gilt,
“ RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism.
CONTENTS.  
’ Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. Y. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried : Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg — Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Yay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burse—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna iBlackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci, Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship ofM.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies. D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voic* of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, W.C.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily bo worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms :—18o, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <fcc.;
post free, seven stamps.    
BIRKBECK BANK.-—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.OJ
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 11, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF .
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Colderj Esq., i, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, w.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North. Brixton, S.'W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Juncken, Henry D., M.lt.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Massey, u. 0., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Bogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper/
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa. Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth. S.W.
Ashton. E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett. Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H- 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W. i
Glen dinning. A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sbeoter’s-hill. Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred. E., S', Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould. Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, DalSton, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
StFawhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redclille-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawhridge,Mrs. G. N.. 84. Re.lcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. Hy M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H.j 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
J, H. Andre, Esq.
Auditors.
H. Cook, Esq.
Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
M. da Saggompicrre, 285, ChausseeSt.Pierre,Etterbeck,Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Ylenne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
LondonjN.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdile. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhuf, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgoraery-place,Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Bel grave-road, S’.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Yasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Sniriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 28,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Biyton, Esq., 68, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot.
SocledadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can he attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a ‘Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Beothees, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Tetibnee & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Beothees.
A STROLOGY, a popular sketch of Celestial
XJl. Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J. Peaece, author
of the Weather Guide - Book, &e. Price Is. London:
Berger, Newcastle-street, Strand. Sent post free by the
author on receipt of twelve penny stamps; address, 3, Cedars-
terrace, Lavender-hill, S.W.
8 This work is the best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacquainted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily understood idea of what it really is ; and before under¬
taking to learn anything about it by any of my own works, I
advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.”—Zadkiel.
N.B.—The author gives private instruction in Astrology.
'O EIOHENBACH’S RESEARCHES, by the
JlVi late William Geeooey, M.D., F.R.S.E. 455 pp.,
demy 8vo. Second-hand, in very good condition. Scarce.
10s. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London. W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenherg, St.
Petersburg, Russia..
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Oamp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Paclra, Khan deRasslm Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonohitz, bel Potschach, Styrla,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa. Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wlmille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-slreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Llndesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Ruasell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
IS. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Shear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes;Esq., 33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Rocrol, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
(fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER’S pamphlet
on Curative Mesmerism, price 6d.; also a pamphlet on
Clairvoyance, price 4d. To he had from the author, 10,
Berkeley-gardens, Oampden-hill, Kensington.
KAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSENGER,
, ALMANAC and EPHEMERIS for 1878, containing
Predictions of the Weather and Mundane Events, Birthday
Notes, &c., &c. Post free, 7d. ; with Ephemeris, Is. Id.
Raphael's Guide to Astrology, containing rules and infor¬
mation whereby any person may calculate and judge a
nativity. The most original and simple work on Astrology
ever publishecT. Cloth, gilt, 3s. London: J. E. Catty 12
Ave Maria-lane, E.O,'
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l^d.; or six copies post free
for 6d. 
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible com¬
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-caUed
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury Loudon, W.O,
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 6. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
  Address as above. 
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
SPIRITUAL HEALING OF DISEASE,
BY JAMES REGAN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, W.O.,
♦ AND
141, CAMBRIDGE STREET, PIMLICO, S.W.
N.B.—Patients desiring personal treatment will please
make appointment by letter, which will receive prompt
attention. Curative appliances sent to those residing at a
distance on application.  
MR. W. EGLINTON
Has returned to town, and may be addressed,
82, POPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
 S.W. 
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN,
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O.
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours,
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes.    
MADAME LLANCORIS,
At home from 11 till 4, for Music, Trance, Clairvoyance, and
Automatic Writing.
25, GUILFORD STREET, RUSSELL SQUARE.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue Sfc Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. -Select lectures and private lessons in tho
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment. 
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired).
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.C.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, 90, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, from 12 to
5 p.m. For visits of friendship, from 8 to 10 p.m.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 121, Marylebone-road, London, N.W.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London : Spiril-
ualid Office.
tl ||| ttf mb t$ jljmjiftmfmtn
Volume Tweeve^ Number Two.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 11th, 1878.
VARIOUS MANIFESTATIONS, AND SPECULATIONS
THEREON.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Much has been printed of late in these pages about the
philosophy of form manifestations, and as I wish to say a
little upon this point, as well as to describe a variety of
phenomena, the above title has been selected, because it
affords wide scope for utterance in all directions.
SEANCES WITH MISS K, COOK.
Last Sunday night, at one of my recent seances with Miss
K. Cook, sister of the well-known medium, Florence Cook
(Mrs. Elgie Corner), Mrs. Cook, Mr. Gr. R. Tapp, Miss
Edith Cook, and Master Donald Cook, were the other sitters
present. The circle was held at the residence of the parents
of the medium, and began with manifestations in the dark.
A minute or so after we had seated ourselves, some of the
usual dark-circle manifestations began, such as the floating
of playing musical instruments and of small articles over
the heads of the sitters, but these soon ceased. We were
touched by hands which were much colder than those of
the medium, as materialised hands usually, if not invariably,
are, at the beginning of a stance. They then gradually grow
warmer as the vital energy in them increases, and when
research is made into these points, probably it will be found
that the average temperature of the body of the medium,
and perhaps that of some of the sitters, sinks a little while
supplying the energy.
A voice demanded a pencil, which Mr. Tapp held out in
the dark. It was snatched from his hands, the sound of
hurried writing was heard, the writing was placed in my
hands by a hand, and the voice of Lillie Gordon, the spirit,
asked for a light. We then found scrawled upon the
paper:—
u I killed myself and six children^ and commted suicide.
Ma May 1860.”
After some words of commiseration, I asked him who he
was, and why he came. In the dark (a light was struck to
read each communication) he wrote :—
u I mas a sergeant my name is Walworth”
I asked him where the deed was committed. He wrote:—
“ 1 was living in the He ofwite I was mad Vilworth.”
The above is not necessarily bad spelling from want of
knowledge. (There is apparently a shortening of the words to
economise power, and the “ V ” in Yilworth looks in the
original like half a ” W.”
I remarked that if such a terrible tragedy had taken
place, the details he had given must have been published;
would he, therefore, for the sake of his friends, tell us some¬
thing about his private affairs, which no stranger could know,
to convince his relatives of his identity ? He then wrote :
“ The inquest was held Sandow [Sandown ?] fort, I saw
the girl other—date May 19.”
I again asked him to tell me something not of a public
nature, to identify him to his friends. He wrote :—
“ I only came here because I feel better near this girl. I
have no friend. I was mad”
Here the power for writing failed, and in answers by
u Yes” and “ No” raps to leading questions he said that the
medium was harmed rather than otherwise by his proximity,
and that he had been near her for three years. I asked him
if he did not regret that his nearness to the medium was
injurious to her, and an angry “ No” was the response. In
answer to other questions, he said that her being a medium
had nothing to do with his presence with her; that all
persons had both high and low spirits linked to them in the
same way; and that he would tell more another time.
Lillie, the guardian spirit of the medium, said that this
man had been at several previous stances wishing to com-
i municate, and that on this occasion she had given him per-
| mission to do so.
The usual dark circle manifestations then recommenced
with great power; the circle was harmonious, the spirits
seemed to be keeping high holiday. Musical instruments
flitted about the room; little Edith Cook, who was sitting
on the opposite side of the table to me, exclaimed, “ Oh,
ma ! They’re lifting me!” and the next instant she was in
my lap, having been instantaneously carried over the table.
Musical instruments and other things were piled upon the
two of us, then the table went rapidly up in the air, and
was turned bottom upwards on the top of the head of Mrs.
Cook. I was touching it, and felt its motions all the time.
It was afterwards replaced. Had any mortal, who could
not see perfectly in the dark, attempted to do these things,
somebody must have been injured by the table’s legs, or by
the flying instruments. A sewing machine was partly taken
to pieces; its upper heavy part was separated from the
stand, and placed on the floor. The table round which we
sat was a rectangular one, three or four feet square, with
four legs, and castors. The medium sat by my side, quietly
talking more or less all through the seance.
Afterwards we sat in the light, in one of two rooms
separated by folding doors, each room having a separate
entrance to the passage outside, and one of the rooms used
as a cabinet—all on the premises of the medium. Thus the
next manifestation was not a test one for the public, although
as a private friend, I thoroughly accept its genuineness from
knowledge of Miss Cook and her sister, upon whom slander
has never been breathed from the lips of the very large
number of responsible well-known Spiritualists, who have so
unprecedentedly tested the mediumship of one of them, and
because this phenomenon having been well verified and
established during a long course of years, there is now no
necessity to be specially exacting as to conditions. TI mean
that a form robed in white, and strongly resembling the
medium, but with a dreamy somnambulic look about the
eyes, and with a sorrowful face which sometimes brightened
up, stood at the entrance to the back room used as a cabinet.
In a good light she (Lillie) entered freely into conversation
with Mr. Tapp and myself as to the amount of resemblance
between herself and the medium, then she asked me whether
I thought that her medium was then seated on her chair
inside the cabinet. I replied that I did not know, but from
past experiments was certain that a duplicate form could
occasionally show itself, while the medium was tied and
sealed in her chair in every possible way, or was secured
there as her sister and other mediums had been by weak
electrical currents, so that the breaking of the circuit, if she
left her seat, would have been revealed by the indicating in¬
struments outside.
After some time spent thus in friendly conversation,
Lillie said that she would try to show us a spirit rising from
the floor alongside the medium. "We were then all asked
into the room used as a cabinet, which was illuminated
through the Venetian blinds by diffused weak gaslight.
We could all see each other; I was nearest to the medium ;
according to] instructions, I was holding her hands, and was
told that a spirit would probably rise from the floor near
my feet. That part of the floor consisted of a corner of the
room, devoid of furniture, covered with a nailed-down
carpet, and no open door near. There was nothing but the
bare corner of the room and a bare carpet, all fully within
my view. The other sitters were nowhere near this clear
space, and all of us, Miss Cook included, were quietly talk¬
ing. I was told by Mr. Tapp and others who had seen the
manifestation before, that its first indication would be the
appearance of a white mass on the floor, which might rise
11 i quickly to a height of five or six feet.
14
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 11, 1878.
After the lapse of about five minutes, a cloudy white
mass, about a foot in diameter, appeared noiselessly on the
floor, where there was only light enough for me to see
general outlines and not minute details. It grew slowly in
breadth, then a part of it, long and white, about six inches
broad, rose upwards, curving close to the heart of the
medium, then up to her face, while I was holding both her
hands. It curved upwards—as Mr. Tapp said he had seen it
do on a previous occasion—i( like the tail of a fish.” A
spirit hand and arm covered with drapery, might have
produced the same appearance. For about ten minutes this
white band rose slowly at long intervals from the larger
mass below, then slowly sank. During the whole time it
made not the slightest noise or rustle, then it disappeared.
The spirits said they had nearly exhausted the power over
the previous strong manifestations, so could not produce the
full figure. The consciousness as well as the vital energy of the
medium, was largely drawn upon all the time; we had re¬
ceived the strictest injunctions from Lillie not to let her go
to sleep or it would be injurious to her, and we with much
difficulty kept her awake by continuously talking to her,
and putting questions which she had to answer. Her hand
on the side nearest the form grew so unmistakeably colder
than the one farthest from it, as to attract my attention, and
Mr. Tapp had noticed the same thing at a previous seance.
This incipient manifestation was more interesting and
instructive than the sudden production of the full figure,
which I had seen on a previous occasion, when it pre¬
sented itself at the door of the cabinet. It then occa¬
sionally rose to a height of five or six feet; had a
somewhat columnar form, averaging about eighteen inches
in diameter, and it had not the outlines of a human figure.
No features were visible, and with this class of manifesta¬
tion, through different sensitives, with the medium in full
view, and off his or her own premises, I have never yet
seen living, flexible features in the rising form, although
I have dimly seen faces and beards. Mr. Tapp said that
when the figure rose from the floor, while he was holding
Miss Cook on a previous occasion, it knocked its draped
head against his in a friendly way, and that the head was
an unpleasantly hard one. Miss Cook now and then
shook with nervousness when the white object rose and
curved over her last Sunday; although Lillie told her
that it was a man-spirit trying to manifest, she dis¬
respectfully habitually described the form as “it;” and
when it was down near the floor, she twice expressed her
desire to “ kick it.” Lillie said that it was a new mani¬
festation, imperfectly developed, and that “ it”—as time
went on and experience was gained—would develops into
a living man.
Both Miss Cook and Lillie were very obliging, and gave
all possible facilities for seeing what the facts actually
were; they seemed more desirous to do this, than to try to
make the phenomena doubly wonderful by statements of
their own unverifiable on the spot by the observers.
Mr. Charles Blackburn—who is a careful observer, and
under whose guidance these strong manifestations are per¬
mitted to develope in private, without being kept back to
gratify idle curiosity—has seen one of the forms rise from
the floor, as already recorded in these pages. He thus
describes how the figure developed: “ I noticed her (Miss
Cook’s) lap full of shining mist, which accumulated and
travelled down her left hip to the carpet, when suddenly a
white draped form rose from the floor, and came close to
our faces.” Mr. Tapp—who is a good observer, without
any tendency to keep back weak points and thereby to
present his personal faith under the guise of observed facts
—informs me that shortly after the formation of the cloudy
mass on the carpet, the form 11 comes up with a rush.”
Mr. Blackburn writes to me: ii My experience is, that
the spirits who attend a medium have each a different way
of producing the forms ; some forms come from apparently
the side, feet, or head, or suddenly came into view without
luminosity. But the spirits are all evidently trying ex¬
periments themselves through the medium’s Akasa, or life
principle.”
Mrs. Cook, who has had such a large number of remark¬
able manifestations taking place in her house for years, says
that she knows no more about them, or the personality of
III the spirits who usually produce the phenomena, than the
| )j visitors ; nor can she explain why the spirits manifest in
! j| the peculiar way they do, although she often gives serious
' 11 thought to the manifold perplexities.
)j THE PHILOSOPHY OF FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
)| When form manifestations began in this country, I
|:j watched their development for some years, and attended
11 between two and three hundred seances with various
j mediums, in order to learn the very truth as to the actual
| facts, instead of forming a theory first, and bending a few
(j facts to fit it. The phenomena are divisible into two classes,
|! viz., (1) into those where the “ double” in appearance of the
)j medium, or sometimes the more or less transformed medium
j is presented; and (2) into “recognisable face” manifes-
|| tations. The former class have been well observed and
I studied. Little is known about the latter, and although in
| my earnest endeavour to see a living recognisable face under
\\ conditions good enough to present to the public as fair
jj evidence, I attended a dozen or two seances, and induced some
(I private strong mediums to sit for this class of phenomena,
j flexible features in the faces were not obtained. Perhaps
j the time had not come. The details of these seances I will
! print on another occasion. Since then, to the present hour,
! I have lost no opportunity which presented itself, to see a
j materialised living spirit face, but without success,
j To return to the first class of phenomena, the question of
j course arose at the outset, whether the materialised “ double
|| in appearance” of the medium, was animated by the spirit
I of the medium, or, as claimed by itself, by an outside in-
I telligence. Mr. Serjeant Cox pleads that the spirit of the
j medium does it all, not necessarily as act of imposture, but
j in a mesmeric trance, under the influence of the will-power
11 of observers determined to have spirits and nothing else.
[f In the same way, a mesmerist makes /us sensitive helplessly
|! carry out his will. Dr. Wyld, more recently, has argued
j that the spirit of the medium may be at the root of the
II matter, and does not proceed so far into details. In relation
I to the present problem, Serjeant Cox, Dr. Wyld, and my-
I self confine ourselves to this class of manifestations, which
| favour more than the other phenomena the doctrine of
“ Spiritualism without the spirits of the departed,” and it
j wastes time while dealing with one class of phenomena on
| its own merits, to drag in other phenomena without first
| clearly demonstrating the relationship. The phenomena of
haunted houses, I think, cannot be explained on any but a
| spiritual theory. Various kinds of writing mediumship
j present strong evidence in some cases of the presence of the
| spirits of the departed, and in others give no such evidence,
| but at present we are dealing with these “doubles” and
nothing else.
On only two occasions have I known these doubles to show
the possession of knowledge, which might not be supposed to
have reached the medium by natural means, and the two
| exceptional cases might be explained as due to thought-
| reading powers. In the one case a stranger to Florence
Cook asked Katie, “ Do you know who I’m thinking about ?”
| . and Katie with the utmost promptitude and coolness’replied,
“ Yes; Charles !” which was true.' In the other case, at the
| house of Mr. Crookes, the form displayed knowledge of the
| past lives and works of some Fellows of the Royal Society
| and others, upon whom the medium, Mrs. Fay, had never
| set eyes before. From the darkened library, filled with
| hundreds of books, the “form’’gave each man a book he
| had written, and those books Mr. Crookes himself would have
| had difficulty in finding in the light. The medium had
| only been in the library five minutes, and on first entrance
| was secured in one corner of the room by the “ galvano¬
meter test.”
But on all other occasions I have not known one of these
forms to exhibit original knowledge of any kind outside that
! of the medium. When questioned as to their identity, I am
| not aware that in any single instance the statements of any
| one of these “ doubles ” as to its earth-life identity, has been
verified. The mental capacity of the forms, has usually, and
i j probably invariably, been limited by the mental capacity of
i j the medium.
j j Thus those who advocate the “spirit of the medium
I II theory,” will always find their strongest ground for support
THE SPIRITUALIST.
15
Jan. 11, 187S.
in the manifestations of these doubles. But Dr. Wyld and j
Mr. Serjeant Cox should explain how it is that the medium j
is often awake, and holds audible and sometimes argumen- |
tative conversations, with the forms which externally re- j
semble their own ? I think that the theory of these particular j
manifestations most likely to prove true in the end is, that I
an independent spirit, having either lost its earthly body or j
never possessed one, has usually no means or instrument |
whereby it can produce effects on the plane of matter; it j
consequently by will-power gains influence over a mesmeric j
sensitive, and more or less controls his organism ; in so j
doing acting somewhat upon hermit crab principles. The j
public ask that it shall more and more externalise and j
materialise itself, and in so doing it perhaps loses more and j
more of its own identity, and appears before us in the only j
human shape under its control, that of the medium.
With this speculation in my mind, I for a long time j
sought for some solution of the apparently hopeless problem, j
of measuring how far in any given manifestation, the in- !
telligence displayed was that of medium, and how far that |
of the spirit. But once I noticed that while Dr. Slade’s j
“ Allie” wrote with velocity in much the same handwriting j
as the medium, another professed spirit, who came for the j
first time, wrote with one-fourth the velocity, and in a R
laboured manner. The writing still resembled that of Dr. |
Slade, but it was larger, rounder, and more vertical than |
Allie’s, written a few minutes before. Possibly, had the j
message been compared with that of the man whose spirit |
professed to write it, it might have been found to be nearly j
half-may between the writing of Dr. Slade, and that of the I
“dead” man. Thus possibly, by comparison of specimens of j
handwriting, some indication may be afforded of the extent
to which a spirit is able to manifest its own individuality by
this process, in any given case.
Another theory of these doubles deserves consideration.
May not a spirit, by will-power turn the spirit of a medium
out of his body, and make that spirit do at seances what he
wills ? Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald once saw a black man mes¬
merise a woman on a public platform at Blackheath, and
order her spirit to go home and touch one of her fellow-
servants in the house. A committee, formed by the audience,
went to the house, and found the servants in a state of
terror, because one of their number had been u touched by
an unseen ghost.” Mr. Fitzgerald had reasons for believing
that' in this case there was no trickery anywhere, and he knew
the mesmerist. Here, then, we have a spirit {in the body), I
driving a spirit out of another body, and making it produce
physical effects at a distance. If that second spirit had been
seen, it would have been the “ double ” of the body of the |
medium. j
As to the other and widely different class of forms, which j
appear while the medium is awake and in full view of the |
observers, I have never been able to see flexible living i
features in the spirit, except some years ago on the premises j
of some very strong genuine physical mediums, who finally j
swindled a well-known Spiritualist and some tradesmen out ]
of considerable sums of money, and disappeared. On I
sesthetical grounds, I often fancy that some fine high-class j
living heads which came out of their bedroom cabinet—
which many of my readers will remember—were not im- I
posture, yet the evidence is not satisfactory to me who did |
see them, and would be utterly worthless to the public who i
did not see them. I then gave much time in the special j
endeavour to get living flexible, recognisable faces with !
private mediums, and up to the present hour have failed, in j
spite of every effort, and of using every available oppor- j
tunity. The manifestations were very powerful, with good j
mediums, and the phenomena were genuine, but the faces
were not living; they were rigid.
SPIRIT DRAPERY. |
The following is a letter from the spirit ‘‘Lillie” (who manifests \)
through Miss K. Cook’s mediumship), and which was addressed, a j(
few days ago, to Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Parkfield, Didsbury, near ||
Manchester:— I j
To my friend, Mr. Blackburn, ||
So many questions have been asked lately about the drapery worn j)
by materialised spirits, and so many doubts raised as to its spiritual i (
manufacture, that I think it but right that I, as a spirit, should try u
and give you what information I am able on the subject. I fear, how¬
ever, I can give you but few new ideas; I can only state my ex¬
periences. I know that it is possible for spirits to materialise drapery,
but, as a rule with most mediums, it is only done on rare occasions. It
is impossible to form such material unless corresponding material is
worn or possessed by the medium or sitters, for everything in the
material world has its corresponding quality in the spirit world.
White is usually chosen by spirits, but if dyes of a vegetable nature
were placed in the seance room, almost any spirit could change their
white drapery to the colour of the dyes so placed ; this experiment,
with a little development, could be done before the sitters’ eyes, with
either drapery materialised by spirits, or material made in your
world.
The materialisation of drapery is by no means so common as when
materialisation of spirit forms were first developed. Spirits have so
much to do to form themselves, that the drapery becomes a secondary
consideration ; it is easier to take from and restore to different places
sufficient white material to clothe themselves, and I cannot think it
dishonest to do so, providing the spirit so clothed plainly tells you that
the dress is of your own world’s manufacture. I, myself, have spirits
under my control able to fetch me the clothing required; it is
dematerialised in the place it is brought from, and conveyed in that
state to the seance room, or near the medium. By the help of a power
drawn from the medium, I am enabled to again render it material;
so, in one sense, all spirit clothing is of spiritual manufacture. I may
here say that it is not absolutely necessary for the medium through
whom the materialisation takes place to be present, or near, while the
materialisation of the drapery is performed. Many people have noticed
that when a spirit first issues from the cabinet its clothing appears
phosphorescent, and they take that as a proof that the dress is not of
their world ; but this is no proof; the dress is merely covered with a
substance taken from the medium, and which disappears after the
spirit has been in the room some time, and so keeps away from the
medium.
If I have not made those things clear to you, or you would wish to
ask questions, write either to me or to Katie, and I will do my best to
explain myself on this matter or any other. I should have written
this before, but I have been trying many new things lately, and have
succeeded well in my experiments. Do not, however, have Katie to
see you just yet. I wish her to be rather more developed. Give my
kindest love to your daughter, and believe me always to be your true
and faithful friend,   Lillie.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCES FOR INQUIRERS.
On Wednesday, the 2nd inst., one of the above seances, with Mr,
Eglintbn as medium, took place at 38, Great Russell-street, London,
under the direction of the Seance Committee of the National Association of
Spiritualists, the circle consisting of nine persons. Mr. Eglinton’s sleeves
were sewn together, and affixed to the back of the coat; such tests being
accepted as “ almost absolutely conclusive ” by some experienced Spirit¬
ualists, as proving that any hand shown at a distance from the medium
could not be his own hand. The coat was further sewn together at the
breast, and the curtains pinned together in front of the medium’s face.
Light being lowered, the usual phenomena of lifting the book-cover,
motion of the “ fairy bells,” agitation of small objects in front of the
medium, were shown as on previous occasions. A sound was then
heard, which some present considered to bear a resemblance to that
which would have been produced if the strings of the fairy bells had
been thrummed. Several ladies and gentlemen put their hands into the
cabinet, and stated that they were grasped by a hand at a distance from
the medium. At this time, under the directions of the voice familiarly
called “ Joey,” the arms of the medium had been tied around the upper
part of the biceps, with tape on the right hand side, and with thread on
the left hand side, the ends of the respective tape and thread being held
by the sitters outside the cabinet. The object of this ‘‘ test,’’ as directed
by “ Joey,” was not apparent to me. “Joey ’’ then called for a piece of
paper, and a pencil. I produced from my own pocket a sheet of paper,
and filled a pen with ink. This was held before the front of the cabinet
by a visitor, who stated that it was taken from him, and the following
words written :—“ What constitutes truth ?” “ The present manifesta¬
tion.” “ Joey is a spirit,” and a fourth message, which is so scrawled
and written over the others that I can scarcely read it, though oihers
read it, “ I am not the medium’s spirit,” which it may very well be. I
then took the paper, and, putting the clean side upmost, filled a pen with
ink, which was taken from me by a white object, having resemblance to
a hand, and showing separate movement in what would be called (on
the hypothesis that it was an “ astral ” hand) fingers. When taking the
pen from me, this “hand” was decidedly warm to the touch. At this
time the spot where the curtains were pinned together by me (a second
time) was about three or four inches higher than Mr. Eglinton’s head.
I saw at a distance of about six inches between my eye and the “ astral ”
hand, the pen moved on the paper slowly, and the words written, “ I em
not the medium’s {sic) s,” the writing failing because there was no more
ink in the pen. I beg to present this piece of paper to the Association,
without comparison of the handwriting with that of Mr. Eglinton, but
noting the fact that the tapes and sewing were found to be intact at tha
end of the seance, and that several times immediately after a manifest a*<
tion, visitors entered the cabinet and satisfied themselves of the feet
that Mr. Eglinton’s hands were in the position in which they had been
placed in the earlier part of the evening.—C. Carter Blake, Member of
the Seance Committee) in charye.
BY “ M.A., OXOK.
It will be obvious to any one who reads what I wrote about
the Theosophical criticism, put forward by Col. Olcott, in Tfo
Spiritualist, on December 7 th, that I did not pretend to deal
with his views except incidentally and in so far as they
affected my then point of view.
It would be unfair to leave them thus noticed, if I
have any claim to notice them at all. Such claim as I can
have rests upon the fact that anything that he says must
commend itself to me on many grounds of personal sympathy
and earnest desire to learn what I can, as well as from the
fact that he transmits to us the teaching of the learned
author of Isis Unveiled, the master key to all problems. Of
himself he would command attention ; he commands it still
more on account of the store of knowledge to which he has
had access. If he be not the rose, at any rate he has lived
near it. And, lastly, he comes forward to enlighten us, and
will be aided in his attempt by the pointing out of difficulties.
He anticipates that there may be points left for solution, and
I think he will not be sorry to have them pointed out in
order that he may solve them hereafter.
Perhaps I shall put what I have to say into the most con¬
venient form, if I take Col. Olcott’s paper in The Spiritualist,
of December 7th, as it stands, and suggest my points of
difficulty as they occur.
The first -statement that strikes me is a claim of common
cause with the Spiritualists against a common enemy. The
enemy, I suppose, is Materialism. But how can Occultism
and Spiritualism be regarded as u natural allies.” Perhaps
my last paper dealt sufficiently with this point; but, not to
put it too plainly, I should have thought that Occultism
according to Olcott was the deadly foe of Spiritualism as in¬
terpreted by popular teachers. Indeed, I should have thought
that the mission of Occultism was to strike at the root of the
central theory of Spiritualism, and to discourage its practice
altogether. If no't, much in the President’s paper requires
restating in more precise terms.
There is indeed a perhaps unavoidable want of precision
in a somewhat rhetorical paper which is misleading.
“ We accept the doctrine of the immortality of the human
spirit,” should read evidently from what follows, “ the
potential immortality.” The doctrine is stated categorically
that man is composed of a physical body, an astral body
(double, or soul), and “ these two are overshadowed
(illuminated and spiritualised) by the divine immortal spirit,
the ruach or vov<;. If then Col. Olcott merely means that
the vov<; is immortal though the man be not, his statement
is a little misleading, for most readers will gather from his
words that Theosophists accept-the usually received doctrine
of. Immortality of the human spirit.
It is important to state this clearly, for most of us hear, I
fancy, for the first time through this paper of the doctrine of
a duality in man overshadowed, as by something separate, by
a divine spirit. We have fought about distinctions between .
Soul and Spirit, but we have pretty well agreed that man is j
tripartite, composed of Body, Soul, and Spirit—a Physical j
Body, a Spiritual Body, and “ a particle of the Divine mind” |
indwelling, which most call Soul and some Spirit. But this j
doctrine of a separation between the vow and the man,
normal at all times, and in frequent cases becoming per- j
manent even before bodily death, is new to us. What does
it lead to ? Plainly to a doctrine as new as it is startling, j
viz., that in the physical life the efforts of the dual man must j
be directed to union with his AvyoeiSiji;—his Divine Spirit—to |
avoid annihilation. Such as secure that union survive—the
survival of the fittest—such as do not, become larvae, elemen-
taries, and are finally annihilated.
This is a “ new departure,” however much it may be
sustained by reference to ancient authorities. It is one of j
very far-reaching import. We hope, therefore, that we may j
reasonably ask for any fair evidence—proof is out of the j
question—for the allegations ; and for a more precise state- I
ment of the theory. Where, for instance, is my conscience ? !
In the nearness or farness of my relations with my spirit ? I
or in myself? Is it pretended that a man who has lost his |
relations with his spirit has no standard of right and wrong, |
or is the standard in himself only vitiated ? And when does |;
this disunion take place ? When is a man’s chance gone ~
Judging by what one sees of public morality and intelligent
spiritual desire, there must be a heap of crude matter here
in this end of the nineteenth century. And, speaking for
myself, I don’t quite see where the Gospel comes in in this
Theosophist Greed. I hanker after the old and nobler faith
that man has in him the promise and potency of Immor¬
tality : that he may delay his realisation of his inheritance,
that he may, in rare and obstinate cases of rejection of all
| light, sink into darkness and final death, but that for the
j children of men, at some far distant day, when it matters
j little, the darkness shall turn to light, the potency become
j fruition.
But to descend from faith to works. Col. Olcott admits
i that we have a certain amount of evidence of the action of
j the pure disembodied spirits in circles both when physical
! manifestations are permitted and when they are excluded;
j but he whittles away this concession very materially by
j suggesting all manner of sets off. It may be the a medium’s
j soul,” or <fan elementary” or “ an elemental.” How are
j we to know? Judge the tree by its fruits? Is that what
I it comes to? Are we the judges ? We—why we are hallu-
j cinated, biologised, or what not. We have our <£ preposses-
j sions” excited. We therefore we are satisfied. It
j is our faith. Surely we must have some better test. We
must at least be protected from ourselves. To put it.
What proof—apart from theory—is there of any of these
statements ? Let us reverse the process. The President of
jl the Theosophical Society lays down a number of theories,
; and tells us to judge our facts by them. Let us, on the
|| contrary, take our facts, and see how they square with his'
| theories. Hot at all. Judged by experience the theory is—
fl theory merely. If it be anything more, then, Col. Olcott
! will do us a service by laying it down on exact lines of
! demonstration.
And here I anticipate a probable objection. I may be
told that these are matters which cannot be reduced to
proof; that all I can ask for is a coherent theory, not a
certified dogma. Admitted: provided it be understood that
| these are mere hypotheses resting on no substantial founda-
| tion. If there be a foundation, we shall all be glad to have
I it set forth in the language of precision.
I Elementals and elementaries again are very perplexing.
| When they first appeared upon the Theosophical carpet, we
| | were told that the elementary was an embryo soul, waiting
I his opportunity for incarnation. Of the elemental we heard
little. How, we read in Isis Unveiled (Yol. I. p. 310 sq.)
|) an elaborate biography of the Elementary who would seem
|j to be of three families : a, the larvae; b, the embryo; c, the
| elemental proper—having neither tangible bodies nor im-
j| mortal spirits. This is the genealogy. And of the branches
I of the family the destiny of the first is to burn out; of the
|| second, to be born into this world ; and of the third—I do
| not know, but Mr. Fitz-Gerald has given us his equation.
In this statement I frankly say that I see nothing which
I should feel it difficult to accept, but that is a different
thing from believing on evidence or proof. Of that we have
none. And this is the cry of any critic who deals with
Theosophists. Evidence, proof, my good friends. Give us
a foundation on which to build. At present you are
raising a mere Chateau en Espagne—a fabric which wants
foundation.
The argument against this is anticipated. u I may be
told that spirits sometimes declare that immortality is the
common heritage of man ; that evolution is not a fact on
the spiritual side of the universe ; that the elementaries all
finally become purified of sin.” Partly so. Pure spirits—
judged by human standards—do deny that comprehensive
) doctrine of annihilation; they do say that few fail of final
progress, though some do. So far as I know they affirm
II the doctrine of evolution, and impress on man the doctrine
)j that he is the arbiter of his own destiny, that his evolution
I will be slow or rapid according as he works out his own
j salvation. The Gospel they proclaim seems to me to
j be one that needs no advocacy. Man, they say, makes his
j future, and is the arbiter of his own fate. He graves day
by day a character which is permanent, and by virtue of it
j he goes to # his own place.” He works out his own salva-
j tion, and after his physical life is done with, he remedies
often in sorrow and shame, the defalcations and sins of his
16
'fHE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 11, 1878.
THE VIEWS OF THE THEOSOPHISTS.
Jan. 11, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
17
THE SPIRITUAL BODY.
life, and pays the penalty of his transgressions. Helps he
has, and by their means he is led upward. But if, by a
course of preferred vice, by ingrained preference for the
*1 earthly, sensual, devilish” he chooses evil and refuses
good, then, by the action of the same invincible law, he
sinks lower and lower, till beyond hope. But these cases
are few and far between.
But, says Col. Olcott, awho cares to offset the asseverations
of such unverified and unverifiable witnesses against the
accumulated experience of thousands of trained seers, not
mediums, not controlled, but able to sound the profoundest
depths of nature, and who have sounded it ?”
Well, that is just one of the statements so freely made.
Where are the seers? what are their records? and (far
more important) how do they verify them to us? As to
the unverifiable nature of statements made by spirits,
admitting (for the sake of argument only) that such is the
case, do not the spirit and the seer sail in the same boat ?
The spirit at any rate is in evidence ; the seer as yet is not.
We cannot fairly be expected to u find in the far East the
proof” we ask for. We must at least have some ground
for believing that all the wise men do come from that
quarter.
Another curious statement, made as if it were perfectly
familiar, is this—“ at birth a babe is but a duality, and
becomes a trinity only when reason begins to manifest itself,
usually at the age of seven years, but sometimes earlier.” This
at any rate is new to me, and should be substantiated by
some evidence. Shall I be wrong in saying that where
Theosophy touches ground we have no difficulty in recognis¬
ing its beauty ? We admit with all frankness that Spirit¬
ualism in some or many of its exoteric aspects is unlovely
and of bad repute. We welcome the effort of the Theo-
sophisfc to tell us how to remedy the blemishes which we
have already seen, and which our “ pure disembodied spirits”
are never weary of dilating upon; and for which they also
prescribe a plain remedy. In the midst of perplexities that
beset us we are grateful to them for pointing out the
sources of our bewilderment. But we would represent to
them that they only increase our difficulty by the suggestion
of unproven hypotheses. We want some rest for the sole of
our foot, but we do not find it in rhetoric, or in supposition,
or in mazes of hypothetical deduction. Before any hypo¬
thesis can seriously demand our attention it must either
grow from previously ascertained fact as a deduction, or it
must be an attempt to explain on a reasonable basis all
observed facts of a particular class. It is here that we
Spiritualists part company with Theosophists. We say
that they import into the discussion a number of hypotheses
and theories of which they offer us no proof. We say
further that they do not make sufficient account of much
evidence that we produce. And we say further still that,
so far as their claims are proven or even vraisemblable, they
are in no way incompatible with the truest Spiritualism
which thus, as the greater, includes the less.
London, January 7th.
Mb. J. Coates has begun a series of twenty-four lectures on “Mes¬
merism,” at the Queen’s Hall, Liverpool. Last Monday evening the
hall was so full that all the standing room was occupied.
Dr. Davies’s Lectures.—The Rev. C. M. Davies, D.D., will resume
his lectures at the end of this month. They will he given in a
drawing-room at the West-end of London, at three o’clock on Wednes¬
day afternoons, and will be quite private. He will, however, be glad to
forward cards of invitation, as far as practicable, to those desirous of
attending. Dr. Davies may possibly make arrangements for lecturing
on other days in different parts of London.
Strange Scene at the House of a Spiritualist.—A scene of a
very exciting character was witnessed on Sunday night before the
house of Mr. Edward Foster, druggist, Friargate, Preston, a noted
Spiritualist and anti-vaccinator. Shortly after six o’clock a number
of persons in the vicinity of Mr. Foster’s residence imagined that they
saw a ghost, or spirit, in one of the upper rooms, and at once com¬
municated the fact to other passers by. A large crowd speedily col¬
lected, and the appearance of the ghost was attributed to a seance that
was thought to be going on in the room. The crowd increased, and
became very noisy, the wildest rumours got afloat, and for the space
of about two hours the thoroughfares, despite the endeavours of the
police, were entirely blocked. No satisfactory clue was obtained
as to the cause of the strange apparition which the hundreds of people
positively asserted they saw, and at length the crowd, having spent
itself in noise and surmises, gradually dispersed. — Northern Daily
Express, Dee. 18, 1877,
I BV EPES SARGENT.
The old heath enisb notion of the resurrection of the
physical body, unhappily grafted on the most prevalent
forms of Christianity, has had a mischievous influence
through the ages in excluding those rational conceptions of
a spiritual body, manifestly entertained by St. Paul, and
which the present phenomena are doing so much to corro¬
borate. As soon as we get out of the close, unwholesome
air of a merely dogmatic system of theology, it is surprising
to see how naturally the human reason turns, instinctively,
as it were, to this theory of a spiritual body, the counterpart
of the external and visible—a theory which spiritual mani¬
festations have impressed even on the minds of savage
tribes.
Among the books very popular in its day, and not un¬
worthy of republication even in these crowded times, is The
Religion of Nature Delineated, by William Wollaston, a
native of Staffordshire, who died in London in the year
1724, at the age of sixty-five. A man of fortune and edu¬
cation he devoted himself independently to the study of the
ancient languages, Greek, Hebrew, and Arabic, and to
meditations in theology and psychology. In regard to the
spiritual body he arrived at conclusions quite in harmony
with those of Spiritualism. He regarded the soul as “ a
thinking substance intimately united to some fine material
vehicle.” He says
“ Though I understand not perfectly the manner how a
cogitative and spiritual substance can be thus closely united
to such a material vehicle; yet I can understand this union
as well as how it can be united to the body in general (per¬
haps as how the particles of the body itself cohere together),
and much better than how a thinking faculty can be super-
added to matter; and beside, several phenomena may more
easily be solved by this hypothesis ; which (though I shall
not pertinaciously maintain it) in short is this, namely:
thaPthe human soul is a cogitative substance, clothed in a
material vehicle, or rather united to it, and, as it were, in¬
separably mixed—I had almost said incorporated—with it;
that these act in conjunction, that which affects the one
affecting the other. . . .
“ We are sensible of many material impressions (impres¬
sions made upon us by material causes, or bodies)—that
there are such we are sure. Therefore there must be some
matter within us, which being moved or pressed upon, the
soul apprehends it immediately. And therefore, again, there
must be some matter to which it is immediately and inti¬
mately united, and related in such a manner as it is not to
any other. Let us now suppose this said matter to be some
refined and spirituous vehicle, which the soul doth immedi¬
ately inform ; with which it sympathises ; by which it acts
and is acted upon ; and to which it is vitally and inseparably
united. . . .
*| By many symptoms it appears most probable that this
| matter, to which the mind is immediately present, and in
| which is its true Shekinah, is not the whole gross body, but
| some subtile body, placed in the region of the brain. . . .
| So if we should suppose the soul to be a being by nature
| made to inform some body, and that it cannot exist and act
| in a state of total separation from all body, it would not
| follow from hence that what we call death must therefore
| reduce it to a state of absolute insensibility and inactivity,
! which to it would be equal to non-existence. For that body,
j so necessary to it, may be some fine vehicle that dwells
| with it in the brain, and goes off with it at death.”
All this is substantially consistent with the deductions
| from the phenomena of Spiritualism. According to Chavee,
j the French physicist (who is not a Spiritualist), we contra-
! vene no known law of science, chemistry, physics or
i mechanics, in admitting the existence of an ethereal or
| electro-luminous organism. He says : ff There are cases of
positive pathology where we can grasp the superior organism,
! and observe its action, while the inferior one—that which is
| perceptible to the senses—is no longer in exercise. These
| cases are natural and mesmeric somnambulism and trance.
; Thus observation leads us to conclude that there is a future
| life.”
Another French physicist, Dr. Georget, who wrote a book
; on the Physiology of the Nervous System, in which he ex-
18
Jan. 11, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
pressed views similar to those which. Vogt, Buechner,
Hoeckel, and other extreme materialists advocate now, was
fully convinced by the phenomena of mesmerism that he had
made a great mistake in limiting the life of man to its
material earthly manifestations. He manfully retracted
his whole materialistic philosophy, and, in his last will and
testament, proclaimed that he had arrived at a “ profound
conviction, founded upon incontestable facts,” that there
exists “an intelligent principle, altogether different from
material existences ; in a word, the soul and God.”
If, in their experience the light of Spiritualism had been
added to the cognate facts of mesmerism and clairvoyance,
the conclusions of both Chavee and Georget would have been
still more decisively illustrated.
It was the opinion of Charles Bonnet, the great Swiss
nationalist (1720-1793), that man’s future body exists already
with the body visible; and he believed that science would
“ some day have instruments which would enable it to detect
this body, formed as it probably is of the elements of ether or of
light.” The experiments in spirit photography point to the
verification of this prediction ; while the form-manifestations
through Dr. Monck, as recorded by the Rev. M. Colley and
M.A., Oxon, show what science may expect from further per¬
sistent investigations in this direction.
Of the operation of an intelligent force, independently of
any visible organism, the slate-writing phenomenon gives us
a most conclusive proof. This phenomenon is destined to be
placed upon a basis of testimony sufficient to meet the most
rigorous demands of science. It will go far to confirm the
theory of an invisible organism through which the veritable
man survives the dissolution of his earthly body.
For a vast amount of learning and testimony on this sub¬
ject of a spiritual body, see Ralph Cudworth’s Intellectual
System of the Universe, first published in the year 1678. He
tells us that, “The luciform body can pass through any solid
thing. It lieth in this mortal body, continually inspiring it
with life. By it is the soul connected with the mortal body.
Plato and Aristotle concur in this idea of a luciform body.
The latter says, ‘ All souls seem to have another body and
diviner than that of the elements.’ ”
In the North American Review (May—June, 1877), Mr.
Thomas Hitchcock happily remarks, “ The advantage of thus
conceiving of the soul as a substantial organism analogous to
the body, and affected by mediums similar to those which
affect sight and hearing, is that it explains the mystery which
surrounds the relations of mind and matter, and accounts for
many things which now puzzle the scientific explorer. Allow
the soul to be a real substance co-extensive with the body, and
intimately interwoven with it, and the difficulty expressed by
Professor Tyndall and others in "perceiving the connection
between its operations and the molecular changes of the
brain need be no greater than that of perceiving the con¬
nection between magnetism and the motion of the magnetic
needle.”
I have but skimmed a fragment of a subject vast in its
proportions and spreading out into the most ample fields of
fact and of speculation; a subject on which much more has
been written than we seem to be aware of, and the testimony
in regard to which is co-extensive with all extant literature.
No. 68, Moreland-street, Boston, U.S.A.
Mr. J. J. Morse! has left London to reside in the provinces.
M. Gustave de Yeh is in London, on a temporary visit to this
country.
Allan Kardec’s Heaven and Hell, translated by Miss Blackwell,
and Rifts in the Veil, consisting of choice extracts from the medial
and normal literature of Spiritualism, have been published in London
this week.
Prince Wittgenstein, who for some months commanded a section
of the Russian army in the war against Turkey, has returned to his
home in Yevey, Switzerland. All the readers of these lines will be
glad to hear that he is safe and well.
We are informed of a poor man who is a medium, and con¬
scientiously cannot think of taking money for his stances. We recom¬
mend him not to publish this fact, but to give sittings to the poor
gratis. If he publishes it, not a few of the worthless rich will
“sponge” him, by civilly persuading him to give gratuitous seances,
that they may avoid paying a professional medium fair value for
benefits appropriated.
iA STRANGE VISITATION.
BY E. A. GOMES.
One night in the month of October, 1875, I had retired to
| rest, and after a preliminary perusal of a book, as is my habit,
I fell into a half-wakeful sleep. It was between the hours of
ten and eleven, when all my faculties were becoming dormant,
that I experienced a peculiar sensation as of something hovering
about me. Whether it was a visitant from the land of spirits
I cannot undertake to say, but I clearly observed two hands,
with the fingers pointing towards me, and which were gra¬
dually passed along my body from head to foot. At every
pause of this movement I experienced a soothing yet shooting
sensation through me, as if I were the subject of an electri¬
cian. This feeling, moreover, was not confined to any par¬
ticular part of my system, but was felt forcibly at the parts
where the fingers pointed to during the pauses in their move¬
ment, as I have described. Fear I had none, but in its
place a peculiar sort of pleasurable calm came over me, exer¬
cising a soothing influence over my senses, which, at this
stage, were keenly sensitive. After this exercise of the
digits over me, I imagined the figure had placed itself at my
head, and in a voice of mellowness blended with power, com¬
manded me in the English language, P Do not tell! ”
Although the mandate was, I may say, authoritative, yet its
sternness was so mollified by the deep and sepulchral tones
in which it was uttered, that with me to “hear was to obey.”
After this I started up with indescribable feelings, and endea¬
voured to find some cause for this strange effect, but there
was nothing apparent. As for my having been a victim to
the trickery of some individual, it was simply impossible, for
my bed was in an upper story, and no means of ingress were
available, except the window. My wife was reclining by me
in a sound sleep, nor was she disturbed in the least. Im¬
puting the circumstance to an incipient attack of indigestion,
which, we all know, gives rise at times to strange dreams, I
thought no more of it; but, strange to relate, the same
thing was repeated the following night, and seven successive
nights about the same hour almost. My imagination was so
worked upon, that I awoke on the eighth night with a start,
which aroused my wife, who inquired what was the matter,
and observed an undue beating of my heart. Bearing in
mind (although placing no great stress upon) the strangely
delivered mandate, I tried to pass it off until after much
importunity I unburthened myself to my wife, and it is re¬
markable I have not experienced a recurrence of these
sensations since. Very probably my violation of the com¬
mand dissolved the “ Fatal spell around me so entwined.”
Yet, judging from the ill-luck that has since attended me
in my mundane affairs, even in the most trivial items, I am
forced to conclude (though not prone to superstition) that
my having disobeyed the order by not keeping the affair
locked up in my breast, has led to the misfortunes I have
subsequently endured. In short almost every thing that I
undertake proves a failure. There may be legitimate causes
to account for my unsuccessfulness, but the coincidence is
so strong, and above all, following immediately after the
breaking of faith, that I can hardly wean myself from im¬
puting my failures to the very cause.
It will be considered an obliging act if any one more
enlightened would trace out the origin of this event, more
so as it is generally supposed to have a strong leaning to
mesmerism.
Hyderabad, Deccan, India, December 7th, 1877.
The discussion on Dr. Wyld’s paper will be published with the next
one on the same subject.
Mr. and Miss Ella Dietz will next month begin to give a series
of entertainments at the Langham Hall.
A sufficient number of persons desire to attend the next meet¬
ing of the Psychological Society on slate-writing to fill the hall twice
over.
Mr. J. Coates will shortly give a mesmeric lecture at the Queen’s
Hall, Liverpool, for the benefit of the distressed miners in South
Wales,
Jan. 11, 1878.
THE SPIKITTJALIST.
19
ComspcmTience.
[Great freedom isgiven to correspondents,who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.]
SPECULATIONS ON SPIRITUAL AGENCIES. | \
Sir,—Will you permit me a somewhat discursive reference to some | (
of the articles and correspondence in your paper this week ? j j
• Let me first advert to the letter of my friend Dr. Carter Blake, in | /
whose kindly praise and too liberal appreciation of crude ideas I fancy I j j
can, or ought, to detect a flavour of Socratic irony. In associating psycho- |
graphy with physical phenomena produced by the duplicated limbs of the ] )
medium, I went unnecessarily far in suggesting that the modus operandi | j
was the same in both cases. It is suificient that analogy may lead us j
to suppose that, in the one case as in the other, the psychic force of | J
the medium is instrumental. The main point in Dr. Wyld’s theory is ! j
that man, being a spirit, the natural presumption arises that he has i
all the powers latent during his abode in the flesh that he will possess | {
when emancipated therefrom, and that these, under exceptional condi- j 1
tions, may become operative. It is no more incumbent on the sup- j \
porters of this theory to show how the pencil is moved than this is i i
incumbent upon those who call in another, but similar, agency for the | 1
task. Nor is it more easily explained on the one hypothesis than on ! '
the other. However, I do not, in fact, regard the explanation as diffi- j <
cult. The forces which give vitality to the physical organism may j 1
exist in all their organic potency in an invisible and imponderable j (
vehicle. The efficacy of these forces does not depend on incarnation, i 1
We know, for instance, that many physical phenomena are produced ! ]
without materialisation, that is to say, the visible or tangible presenta- I ,
tion of the means. I have seen, with Dr. Slade, a chair raised from the i
ground, in the middle of a brightly lighted room, and placed at my side, !
while my eyes were upon it, no object intervening. An astral body I
conceive to be the organised vehicle of force, which can produce all its
effects upon the smallest scale as upon the largest. As it is better to I
be diffuse than obscure (I hope not to be both), I venture to enlarge a
little on this point. In writing these lines I hold the pen between my
thumb and two fingers. What really “holdsmthe pen are two currents
of force coming from opposite directions, nerve force, which contracts
the muscles. Why is this machinery of nerves and muscles necessary ? |
To localise and confine the force, which, if not otherwise controlled,
would escape like electricity without a conductor. The nerves act as |
conductors to the muscles, and the muscles, which are supposed to do j
the work in reality, only enable the force to do it. According to this j
view it would be almost more correct to say the muscles contract the j
force, than that the force contracts the muscles. The psychic organism,
if it exist at all, must make a like provision for the passage and direc- j
tion of vital force. But being fluidic (some old writers call it the j
“ fluidic body ”), it has not fixed and invariable dimensions. Freedom, [
subtlety, mobility, expansiveness, and compressibility, must be the
attributes of a psychic body. Thus the ancients, according to Cud-
worth [Intellectual System) described it not as a body but as a “ vehicle.” I
Force must still move in certain lines, but need not move through the i
same distances as are prescribed by the fixed and permanent dimensions
of molecular structures. This, I think, is one answer to Dr. Blake’s
dilemma of the psychic “hand” being either smaller than, or as large
as, the physical hand. We have only to get rid of the notion of fixity !
in the dimensions of psychic objects. When both sides of a folded slate |
are written on, the fulcrum must be reversed from above to below the
slate. Why are we not permitted to see the process on a slate laid open j
on the table ? Probably because our eyes and attention being in that j
case directed to the very point at which the force was concentrated, i
would project one of those disturbing currents of which Mr. Simmons
speaks. If this current is of the same nature as the force, no doubt it
would equally penetrate table and slate; but then it is not aimed at the |
very point at which the writing is proceeding. This, probably, explains j
the condition of darkness at seances generally. Otherwise, the moment
an object began to be moved, every eye would be fixed upon it with
eager attention, and many streams of force would interfere with the
operative power.
As to the cases referred to by Miss Kislingbury, in which no pencil
has been placed for the writing, the letters nevertheless occurring, I can
only suggest that the pencil is brought and removed by the same agency
that writes.
The great question of the intelligence which starts and directs the
force remains behind. Notwithstanding a suggestion to that effect in
Dr. Wyld’s paper, I imagine he would not seriously maintain that
mediums are such adepts as Madam Blavatsky speaks of, or that the
conscious will-power of the former is the source of the phenomena. As
to this the answer of M.A., Oxon, seems conclusive. “Nothing short
of the severest exercise of will,” he tells us, “so severe as to paralyse
the mental powers for a long subsequent time, can avail to produce any
objective effect. Yet the medium, passive ex hypothesis and in many
cases not entranced, produces these without (so to say) turning a hair.”
It was scarcely necessary to confine the proposition that “ this hypothesis
carries on its face its own plain refutation ” to “ those who have tried
it.” By will, M.A., Oxon, means volition. But there is another sense
of the word, in which it means the disposition or tendency from
which all definite volitions proceed, and many acts which
take place without any definite volition at all. By far the
larger number of actions, and even characteristic actions, we perform
are automatic. The subtlest analysis of consciousness cannot trace
any preconception of them interposed between the stimulant and the
effect. Consciousness is not even an essential factor in the elabora¬
tion of intellectual results; and of course materialism, with its uncon¬
scious cerebration, has given prominent importance to this fact, which
is in truth one of profound spiritual significance. Two intelligent
processes can proceed simultaneously, of which one is conscious, the
other unconscious. We know this by results which are more or less
in the experience of every one. The most remarkable illustrations of
it are recorded in books on psychology. Be it remembered that con¬
sciousness is not the artificer of our thoughts, or even of our habitual
modes of expression, but only the reflection and revelations of these.
Also that the process may, and often does, go on without this reflec¬
tion. and revelation. Is it difficult to conceive without supposing con¬
sciousness the production of an intelligible sentence consisting of ideas
entirely familiar, and couched in forms of expression habitual to the
medium? Yet I believe that the difficulty of accepting the agency
of the medium is chiefly owing to the assumption that consciousness
is necessary to the production of intelligent results. That this theory
does not cover all the recorded facts, that it is not a sufficient
account of spiritual phenomena generally, I quite admit, nay, would
myself insist. But finding in a large proportion of cases a thorough
identification of the phenomena, with the knowledge, inclinations, and
characteristics of the medium and those en rapport with him, I seek
rather to explain them, if possible, by psychological facts and proba¬
bilities too little attended to, but which it is highly important to recog¬
nise, than by the introduction of foreign spirits, when these do not give
unmistakable evidence of their presence. These phenomena are not the
less spiritual, or rather not the less demonstrative of a soul or psychic
body, separable from the physical organism, when referred to the per¬
sonality of the medium, than when ascribed to habitual denizens of
the world of spirits. The presumption that individual life ceases with
the dissolution of the body arises from the possibility (or, perhaps, it is
only the difficulty) of conceiving life without an organism through
which it can act and manifest. That presumption is got rid of by proof
that we have an inner organism; with most of us, indeed, too closely
fitted to the outer to be discernible from it during the life‘of the latter,
but with some so easily and frequently disengaged as to afford a
thousand evidences of its independence. I, for one, would as
soon rely upon this fact for the proof of continued existence (not
immortality), as upon those other proofs to which Dr. Wyld adverts.
Taken together, however, and taken also with the proportion of facts in
Spiritualism, which I must submit are not covered by the largest and
occultist powers reasonably ascribable to the still embodied spirit, there
is no ground for the apprehension that the essential significance of the
phenomena will be at all impaired by Dr. Wyld’s speculations. But
much prejudice will doubtless be excited against them among those
whose interest in Spiritualism mainly arises from the supposed facility
of renewed intercourse with their departed friends. Spirit identity is
struck at, as well by Dr. Wyld, as in the interesting paper signed
“ T. J.,” which you lately published. And, with all deference, 1 must
say it is high time it should be so struck at, if Spiritualism is not to be
given over to an illusion, in so many instances demonstrably such, as to
impede the acceptance of facts which seem inextricably entangled with
false assumptions. Let us see. where we are. We have got the fact of
the psychic body, which can go forth, materialise, and act upon matter.
We have got the fact, known in mesmerism, that the clairvoyant, in the
thought-reading stage, can perceive not only the present contents of
another consciousness, but also all the past experiences, thoughts,
pictures stored up, as the occultists have it, in the “ astral light ” sur¬
rounding each individual. Here are the materials, if we have but a
competent agent, for many a “ test.” The fact “ known only to myself,”
“ forgotten by me, but afterwards verified,” the visible form “ distinctly
recognised,” “ the expression which I never could forget,” “ the pet
name,” &c., all accounted for, while your beloved friend may be all the
while—as surely we ought rather to wish—progressing in another stage
of existence, with new associations, and a new life sphere, from which
he is not drawn whenever you choose to sit at a table, or opposite a
cabinet. Let me advert to one significant fact which I have frequently
noticed. Persons of mediumistic temperament, or of mesmeric power,
commonly obtain more satisfactory “ tests ” than others when sitting
with professional mediums. Why. ? Is it not that in their case the
blending of the psychic spheres is more complete, and thus the records
of their own experience are more easily available ?
As the “ English Member of the Theosophical Society” quoted by
“ Scrutator ” in supposed opposition to Col. Olcott, I have this explana-
nation to make :—The “ elementary” spoken of by “ the very learned
occultist ” whom I cited in the letter referred to, is not the “ elementary ”
in the sense more recently adopted in Isis Unveiled, and by Col. Olcott,
of a departed and earth-bound soul, but the rudimentary spiritual being
in process of evolution into humanity. So that the passage, “ When
the elementary dies out of one state of existence he is born into a higher
one,” in no way contradicts Dr. Olcott’s statement of the fate of the
human “ elementary.” Nor is the rest of the passage quoted by “ Scru¬
tator at all inconsistent with the idea that the thoroughly depraved
man at death is but a duality, having lost all sympathy (and by sympa¬
thy alone is spiritual synthesis maintained) with the Divine Spirit.
The passage continues thus—“ And when man dies out of the world of
gross matter, he is born into one more ethereal; so on, from sphere to
sphere, man never losing his trinity.” It must be remembered, that
this is part of an account of the process of evolution, or of the ascent
from lower to higher forms when that ascent is maintained. True, man
as man never loses his trinity, that is, so long as he continues a man;
and it is, perhaps, partly to guard against any apparent inconsistency,
that when he has lost his trinity he is designated no longer man, but
“ elementary,” a creature of the elements, in whom the human spirit
has no part.
Col. Olcott says, also, “ At birth the babe is but a duality,
and becomes a trinity only when reason begins to manifest itself—
usually at the age of seven years, but sometimes earlier.” Apropos of
this—though I admit that the coincidence, untraced to its origin,
amounts to very little—the following fact from the Duchess of Orleans’
Secret Memoirs of Louis XIV. may (or may not) be worth quoting—
20
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 11, 1878.
“Formerly the Court (of France) never went into mourning for children | \\
under six years old.’’ |)
I have to apologise to Miss Kislingbury for speaking of her “ad- i
vancing ” any particular views. Her facts are irresistibly suggestive; U
but her letter proves that she investigates in too wise and cautious a |)]
spirit to form conclusions hastily. |I|
A reference to dates in the letter of your correspondent, Mr. J. | j j
Carson, may be instructive. The stance was on the 18th of July; the ||
letter mentioning that “ Mr. Burt was killed off horseback during the j (j
month,” was dated Melbourne, 10th July, the accident being mentioned | j |
in Melbourne papers of 1st July, as having happened on the Saturday l|]
previous, which was the day before. The communication at the seance j (j
on the 18th is, “I am in great pain. I have been wounded'’’— |||
signed Burt. It will be said, I suppose, that the spirit was still ignorant j (j
of its changed condition three weeks after the event, and still in pain | (j
from the wound which caused death, probably on the spot. But must it j )j
not strike every one that Mr. Carson’s son, whose friend Burt was, is \\
more likely to have been the source whence the spiritual telegram sped j j
than Burt himself ? Why should Burt, without even the knowledge ||
that he was disembodied, and, therefore, without an intelligible motive |j
for communicating with Mr. Carson, senior (who had never even heard j I
of him), have been drawn to Bedford-place ? If I was dead, I can con- >i
ceive my going (if I could) to a stranger, sitting with a medium, to tell j
him so, because I am a Spiritualist, and should like to contribute evi- \ |
deuce of spirit identity to other Spiritualists still in the flesh. But if I 11
didn’t even know that I was “ dead,” I can conceive nothing more im- (i
probable. This is just one of those cases which should open our eyes \ j
to the other agencies at work. The first words of the message were ; I
“ son, son.” The idea of the accident, and of the pain, is suggested to /j
the entranced or mesmerised medium through the psychic connection (j
between father and son. The medium feels the pain (as evinced by the ; j
distortions of his body), just as the mesmeric subject feels any sensa- n
tion suggested to him. And he personates the injured man, just as the )j
mesmeric subject will personate under the influence of suggestion. > |
Whether this is or is not the true explanation, the case is extremely in- (j
teresting, for the medium was not en rapport with Mr. Carson’s son, (j
otherwise than through Mr. Carson himself. Is Mr. Carson “ medium- ] [j
istic,” or is his son ? or has the former mesmeric power ? It is obvious i (i
that the spirit theory, no less than the mesmeric, requires a line of jj
attraction from son to father.—Apologising for this too long letter, I am, j (j
sir, your obedient servant, C. C. Massey. . j (|
January 6th.   j j i
A SEANCE ON NEW YEAR’S NIGHT. j (j
Sir,—We sat together, a small circle that had met for some weeks I (I
past. The harmony was as perfect as possible. We had been promised j ) \
at the previous sitting that something should be done in commemoration ! / j
of the day. A message was given, “This is the consecration of a holy j (I
hour,” and some sweet perfume was-both poured and sprinkled over HI
heads and faces. Fresh violets were given to each. We heard as it j ) j
were an effort made to unlock the door, and Joey’s voice was then heard j (!
to say, ft Open the door, there is something outside it; I cannot bring it j vj
in for want of power.” One of the circle rose and opened the door. At | n
his feet lay a beautiful camellia, with foliage of ferns, fresh, and covered i (j
with moisture. Joey said, “ The flower is for Mrs. Gregory.” Presently jjj
a ring was placed on her finger, and Joey said, “ It is for you as long as ] ij
you are here in this life, then leave it to Mrs. Fletcher.” Hands were j (l
laid on all, and one of the sitters was mesmerised during the whole part I
of the first sitting. ' i (!
A small pause followed, and we were then told to sit for materialisa- j (I
tions. Abdullah flashed on us in white robes, a bright jewel on his brow. | >|
A friend of Mrs. Makdougal Gregory’s, recently deceased, came, and, j (j
moving a chair from out of the circle, conversed with our hostess apart, j (i
Joey told us how he had spent a Christmas thirty-four years ago, and | )|
we were again presented flowers, this time in sufficient light to distin- j h
guish him and the flowers as we took them up. Finally we were asked j U
to pray with him. We did so, kneeling reverentially together in circle. ] >|
Thus ended a most agreeable and satisfactory interview with our spirit <1
friends on the first day of this year.    s!
WHAT IS THE INTELLIGENCE?
Sir,—May I be permitted to suggest that your correspondents, Dr.
Blake and Miss Kislingbury, are somewhat at sea as to the modus
operandi of the writing on Slade’s slates. Unfortunately I have not
had an opportunity of witnessing this particular phenomenon, but I am
disposed to think, from what I know of “ direct writing,” that the modes
of production are one and the same. In the case of direct writing, a
sheet of paper is laid on the table with any pigment you please. The
medium’s hands are held, and in a few seconds—in a time scarcely
sufficient to lift the paper from the table to the ceiling—the paper is
found covered with writing that will take an expert quill-driver from
seven to ten minutes to copy. Naturally curious to learn in what way
this was effected, I asked the intelligence how it was done, as it was
impossible for any ready writer to exhibit such rapid penmanship. The
reply I obtained was, that writing was not obtained in the ordinary
way; that the words were formed in the spirit aura (or astral fluid),
and that then the paper was brought into the aura, and the words at a
stroke imprinted upon it, much in the same manner as by lithography.
On examining the sheets I found that, notwithstanding the writing is
boldly defined, there is no impression showing at the back of the paper,
as would be the case if actual pressure was brought to bear with a lead
pencil upon the surface. On one or two occasions, when no colouring
material was put on the tablej writing came upon the paper in gilt or
light bronze-coloured characters, and when the intelligence was asked
whence this peculiar ink was obtained, the answer given was that it was
taken from the picture frames. I am inclined to think that the intelli¬
gence does not actually hold the small piece of pencil between the slate-
covers with the materialised hand, but that the words are first spiritually-
formed, if I may use the expression, and then the pencil is willed to
pass over the spot, and, during its transit, by some, at present unknown,
method, particles of the slate pencil are deposited on the words, thus
rendering them visible. It would be an easy matter for Mr. Simmonds
to try an experiment with Dr. Slade, which would throw some light on
the subject. If, instead of a piece of pencil being placed on the slate,
some almost impalpable pencil-dust were laid in the locked slate, could
the writing be obtained ? If so, then it would be managed without the
assistance of the materialised hand, and by will-power alone. I am
convinced that the will is the great motive power, and the only one in
many of modern manifestations, let it be that of the medium himself, or
of the assisting “ spook ” outside. A winter ago I asked “ an intelli¬
gence,” who was in the habit of bringing stones out of the street into
the drawing-room, to explain how it was done. The intelligence was
not very cultivated, and the reply was brief and scarcely scientific. “ I
can hardly explain it. We wrap it round with ‘ the power,’ and then
will it to come. Sometimes we manage to get it to follow us; at other
times we can’t. It all depends on ‘ the power.’ ” This is hardly satis¬
factory, but it was all I could get.
I have used the words “the intelligence” throughout this letter, but
in all cases I am convinced that the operations were effected by dis¬
embodied spirits, because in a hundred different ways, which it would be
too tedious to explain, “the intelligence”forced that opinion upon my
mind. I am equally convinced that “ Allie ” is a disembodied spirit,
acting through Dr. Slade. Perhaps nine-tenths of the phenomena are
produced by her; in the remaining tenth she may assist others to com¬
municate. T. J.
HINDU PSYCHOLOGY.
Sir,—There appears in The Spiritualist, of November 28th, an article
under the heading of “Hindu Psychology,’’ which for combined egotism
and impertinence can have but few parallels. This writer, under the
signature of “ W. L. D. 0‘Grady, Editor of the American Builder, and
late of the Bank of Madras,” tells us that he “ was born in Madras . . ,
and ought to know something about the Hindus.” He certainly ought,
and deeply do I sympathise with him and others who, toiling as banking
clerks, or engaging in other business pursuits, have managed to get so
little real information relating to the Hindus, and the mysteries of the
Hindu religions. Possibly another reason of this is the antipathy that
a majority of the Hindus entertain towards Englishmen. It is well
known that they consider beef-eating Englishmen—“ pompous, presum¬
ing, and dictatorial,” to use their own words—as intruders, who, coming
to India to stuff their purses, return home to enjoy their gains. Accord¬
ingly, neither Englishmen, nor European, nor American missionaries
can expect to get the confidence of the Hindu heart, or a knowledge of
his psychological mysteries.
Mr. 0‘Grady tells us in his first paragraph that he has only a “very
superficial knowledge of the phenomena of Spiritualism.” This was
evident enough without the telling, and being so, he should have mani¬
fested at least a decent degree of modesty in his attempt at criticising
one who has made Spiritualism a study for many years.
In a letter to The Banner of Light, I said (quoting Mr. 0‘Grady’s
version) that I had
Spent day after day with Hindu Pundits and Shastrys, with the Brahmans
and Sivaitas. 2. That he has seen their mediums, their devil-priests, and
their Guros. 3. That he has seen the media entranced, and seen them cast
out demons. 4. That he has procured, not only their camphor mixture, but
other incense preparations, as well as the genuine “ Soma-juice ” plant, etc.,
etc. . ..
I affirm, without the slightest fear of contradiction, that each and all of
these assertions are without warrant of fact.
Not only do I squarely contradict you, sir, but tell you besides, Mr.
O’Grady, that the blush of shame ought to have crimsoned your cheek
while inditing such an unjust paragraph. Possibly the Madras Times
may enlighten you a bit upon this matter. The following is taken
from an editorial article appearing in the Madras Times of Septem¬
ber 1st:—
Three weeks ago we announced the arrival in Madras of' Dr. J. M. Peebles,
formerly an American Consul in Asiatic Turkey, and the author of several
books. During the period that he has been in Madras he has been most
industrious in obtaining information from all sources, and the chapters of his
forthcoming work, devoted to Southern India, should be most interesting. . . .
The Doctor, during his short stay here, has exhibited that push and energy
which is characteristic of Americans. Though he has been, as we have said,
hardly three weeks in Madras, he has managed to visit the famine camps, the
Leper Hospital, the Museum, libraries, all the public buildings and burning
ghauts. He has witnessed the clever feats of magicians, seen the devil-priests
professedly cast out demons, looked into a higher class of psychological phe¬
nomena, difficult to get at and more difficult to comprehend, and met a good
many native gentlemen of various castes. He has also received from the
Chief Secretary to Government much kindness in the way of a sight of public
documents, and in every conceivable way has had the opportunity of seeing
all sides of our social life. Dr. Peebles was at the breakfast in the Banqueting
Hall yesterday, in honour of the Viceroy, and was charmed with the almost
Republican freedom evinced.
The reader will observe that this gentlemanly editor of the Times
informs the public that “Dr. Peebles had seen the devil-priests pro¬
fessedly cast out demons, looked into a higher class of psychological
phenomena,” etc., etc.; while Mr. O’Grady says, t“ They have no
devil-priests in India.” Which of the two gentlemen is to be believed ?
My few weeks in the city of Madras, and ten months in the country
during this second visit to India, were devoted almost exclusively to the
investigation of psychic phenomena, and the hunting up of noted marvel-
workers in the extreme South of India, In due time I shall publish
a description of such of these phenomena as I am permitted. I say
permitted, because some of them occurred under the promise and seal of
secrecy. Others, less startling, occurred in the presence of several
Jan. 11, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
21
reliable witnesses. I will relate one of this character. While in i j
Madras I was several days the guest of Mr. D. S. White, residing in j ?j
Kilpauk. This gentleman, connected with the Board of Education, | (j
and Assistant-Registrar of Assurances, is a free-thinker on all matters j j
religious and political. Accompanied by him, two Eurasian gentlemen j ||
connected with the publication of the Anglo-Indian, and a few others, j (j
I repaired to a native’s house, to see the phenomena of casting out a Hi
demon among the lower class Hindus. The subject was a woman, and j \\
not, I confess, a very prepossessing one. Her eye was dull; the surface | (|
of the hand cool, moist, clammy, and the whole appearance stupid in the | j
extreme. Inquiring of the mother, through my interpreter, I learned j ||
that this young woman had, in the first place, spells of being very j j
silent, of looking into vacancy, and refusing to notice her friends. These 111
peculiarities were followed by tremblings, whirling motions of the head, j p
and other obsessional conduct, till she refused to bathe, to comb her j j |
hair, or speak. It was pronounced, “possession by a dumb devil.”
They sent for a “devil-priest,” as they- familiarly term them, one It!
gifted with the power of exorcism. He could not attend, and, after i (!
some waiting, a “priestess” came, and then another. A circle was |4j
drawn in the sand in front of the hut, one of these mediumistic women I} i
stepping inside of the circular area became spasmodic, the head began j i
to whirl; she was soon entranced, and called for camphor. A rude mJ
lamp of cocoa-nut oil was burning just outside the circle, and the in- I j
cense-smoke of the camphor came from the interior of the circle. At this | ]
point another woman was entranced by a spirit speaking a different ! rj
dialect. And now while the incense-smoke was dying away, they j (j
brought and placed the obsessed Tamil woman within the area of the j ||
circle. Then followed rude music, with threatenings and coaxings of j / j
the demoniacal spirit to leave. It was a failure. And now, unex- j (!
pectedly to Mr. White, his servant woman who had been in his employ j |
for twelve years, was suddenly entranced, constituting herself master of I
the ceremonies. This servant woman, Mrs. Anthraci, declared that the j (|
other women failed because controlled by evil spirits. She then com- | n
manded the dress of the obsessed woman to be changed, a new mat to >|
be placed for her to sit upon, the green branch from a tree to be brought, J (j
and some frankincense to be burned. It was all done. Then she beat j |j
the obsessed woman’s body with a rod, “pathetised” her head, in- j h
voked the gods, &c., &c., and “ the dumb devil left.” This was one of ! (j
the many phenomena I witnfessed among the lower and poorer classes, i
Those that I saw in Hindu high life, and especially among the Dravida j n
Brahmans, I do not propose to peddle about too cheaply. j j
I psychologised quite a number in India. The Hindus being mild, j j
negative, and sensitive, are easy subjects. j j
Owing to introductions to native princes, and distinguished Brahmans | (j
and Mahomedans, when dining with His Grace the Duke of Bucking- j
ham, Governor of Madras, and also at the levee held by Lord Lytton, j j
the Viceroy of India, I was put into fraternal relations with some of the j
most distinguished native Brahmans of India. And to some of these I | [j
am under deep and lasting obligations. To say that these gentlemen | If
“imposed upon me,” is to insult them. j (j
When Mr. W. L. D. O’Grady, editor of the American Builder, and I )j
late of the Bank of Madras, writes hereafter upon “ Hindu Psychology,” j j j
will he have the kindness not to measure my knowledge of this subject j (j
by his yard-stick of arrogance ? j >j
The last Banner of Light, just put into my hands, makes me say I in
had a glorious time with Buddhist priests in India. It should have read I jj
Brahman priests. Probably my careless penmanship caused the |/|
blunder. It was in Ceylon, China, and other Eastern countries that I j j
saw so many Buddhist priests. J. M. Peebles, M.D.
London, January 8th, 1878. I(j
PRESENT OR DEPARTED ? |(j
Sir,—Common sense being usually, even if fallaciously, alleged to
meet the spiritualistic position, one is hardly prepared to agree with Mr. 1 j j
White -in making it do duty on the opposite side, so as to “ apprehend j (j
that common sense will draw us back to the conclusion that spirits are ]) ]
what they represent themselves to be, namely, ‘ men and women, &c.’ ” j (|
What is common sense? Is it any criterion of certainty? If the |(|
evidence of the senses be meant, how is illusion to be avoided ? If the j)
assistance of reason be invoked, what is the standard of appeal ? Suppose, j i
for example, it seems common sense to me that alphabetic writing | (
should represent only the sound of speech, is it common sense for other |)
people to introduce considerations of authority, history, etymology ? Or j (
if orthography be hardly a question of common sense, is Spiritualism j \
more so ? If it is, does not common sense teach, rightly or wrongly, j)
that when we leave the world at death, we cannot return at leisure ? i (
Evidence to the contrary is not only exceptional, but involves excep- i)
tional conditions, and appeals generally either to foregone conclusions, j)
or to other perceptions than those of common sense, which must be i j
inadequate to the purpose, or we should not find Dr. Slade and the j |
Davenports on the one hand believing in the intervention of departed I)
spirits, and Mrs. Hardinge and Mr. Watkins, or Col. Olcott, “T. J.,” j(
and Dr. Wyld on the other, denying that this is always or necessarily the j)
case. It is not fair to claim the voice of common sense on one side i (
more than on the other. We are either above or below the plane, not j \
on it. i j
In some Angelic and Holy Communications, published anonymously i (
many years ago, we were told that— i \
“ Table manifestations, hand-guiding, drawings, are all of mundane j)
origin. It is the work of abnormal nature; spirit proper has nothing ! (
whatever to do with it.” \\
In Art Magic we read :— i )
“There are no phenomena produced by disembodied spirits which i(
may not be effected by the still embodied human spirit, provided a i |
correct knowledge of these powers is directed by a strong and powerful I ?
will.” jj
la Swedenborg we are informed that—.
“ Every man has an inferior or exterior mind, and a mind superior or
interior. . . . These two minds are altogether distinct; by the inferior
mind man is in the natural world, together with men there; but by the
superior mind he is in the spiritual world, with the angels there. These
two minds are so distinct that man, so long as he lives in the world, does
not know what is performing within himself in his superior mind, and
when he becomes a spirit, which is immediately after death, he does
not know what is performing in his inferior mind.” A.E. 527.
It would seem to follow from the last statement, that the departed
spirit is wholly unconscious of the manifestation—a view difficult of
apprehension, and certainly beyond the range of common sense. But I
take leave to submit that it is not worthy of the careful investigator to
rely on a criterion which, to say the least, is as likely to be fallacious
as to be true. W. W. Fawcett.
January 7th. ■■
WHAT IS THE INTELLIGENCE ?
Sir,—With reference to the letter headed “ What is the intelli¬
gence ?” in your issue of 28th ult., may I, as one of those who have
from time to time reported the sayings and doings of “Joey” and
“Abdullah,” crave space for a few words?
For myself, I must demur to your correspondent’s view that the only
hypothesis upon which we can attach any real value to “ manifesta¬
tions ” as sources of important knowledge is that the agencies in ques¬
tion are spirits of the departed who have entered a higher sphere of
life. For I can imagine no greater privilege, or better means of obtain¬
ing very important information, than to be brought into direct contact
with the Prince of Darkness himself, did such a being exist. I am
absolutely careless as to whether the facts arise from what are commonly
sailed #oocZ or sources; this might be a proper con si ieration, per¬
haps, for those to whom Spiritualism has become a religion, or who
permit its control over the emotional side of their nature; but it is in
my view so essential to begin on the lowest round of the ladder that any
question of morals involved may fairly (nay, ought to) be disregarded
by those who are seeking to tabulate facts with scientific and verifiable
accuracy.
Of the reality of the phenomena I am thoroughly convinced, but I am
guiltless of having propounded any theory as to their origin, for within
my large experience I confess I have not found the means of forming
any. I could wish that this suspension of judgment were much more
general, and that a well defined line were drawn between the scientific
and speculative sides of the question.
It is easy to speculate, and, unfortunately, nearly every one deems
himself competent for that task; but it is not so easy to exercise a rigid
self-suppression which should fear one’s own individuality as a factor of
dangerous import. If speculation were competent to deal with this ques¬
tion, there is no subject which should now stand in fuller daylight; but
in this nineteenth century the investigation of the whole matter has to
be commended ab initio, because the only method known to man of
obtaining accurate knowledge has hitherto been disregarded.
The genius power of generalisation illumines the world but infre¬
quently, and Spiritualists, as well as psychologists and astronomers,
must be content to collect facts and facts and facts until it shall appear
and place them in their proper relations. If this were done many
Spiritualists would be much surprised to learn what a fact really is.
In my opinion, therefore, the most pressing work lies within the
sphere of the Experimental Research Committee.
I am afraid that your correspondent’s expectation “ to find it proved,
beyond the shadow of a doubt, that the phenomena have their source in
other than merely human or physical agencies,” scarcely evinces the
proper temper of mind with which to begin the investigation; but, if
without prejudgment, he will study the facts on the low ground I advocate,
he will, doubtless, help to be of good service. Wm. Newton, F.R.G.S.
January 1st, 1878.  
Sir,—The lengthy paper, by “M.A.” (Oxon.), which appeared in
the last number of The Spiritualist, requires comment. For my own
part, I am at a loss to understand why it was written. It professes
to deal with three opponents of the “ cardinal dogmas ” of the spiritual
faith, and as I happen to form one of the trio, I may be allowed to
criticise the critic. I believe it is the bounden duty of a controversialist
to be exact in quoting the conclusions arrived at by his adversary—
even if the language itself should not be employed. No one asks more
loudly than “ M.A.” himself, in his onslaughts upon Dr. Carpenter, for
accuracy of expression, and yet we find him one of the first to mislead
by erroneous excerpts. “ We have believed, that through the gate of
mediumship we have access to the world of spirit, and that through the
same gate the spirits of our dead were able, under certain restrictions,
to return and speak with us.” This is a “ cardinal dogma,” which I
for one am blamed for attacking, it being “the central fact round which
the whole fabric of Spiritualism is built up.” Now let us see how far
“ M.A.” does us justice. Dr. Wyld, we are informed, “ tells us that we
have no proof of the return of the departed,” whereas his very words
are “ the spirits of the departed have a thousand times reappeared as
ghosts before taking their final leave of the world,” and again in another
column, where the learned doctor is arguing on the possibility of the
manifestations being produced by embodied spirits, heremarks, “ I wish it
to be distinctly kept in mind that I do not say all the phenomena we are
acquainted with are so produced.” So far, then, Dr. Wyld does not
demolish the “cardinal dogma” of “M.A.”
Turning to Colonel Olcott, to ascertain how he effects the “ dogma,”
I do not see that it is much injured at his hands. Even “ M.A.” admits
that the Colonel allows that objective physical manifestations may be
produced through a medium by “the spirits of the departed.”
Lastly, I cannot understand how the communication of “ T. J.” in
any way has reference to the “ cardinal dogma.” Assuredly, there was
nothing in his article to warrant the inference that spirits do not com¬
municate through mediums, and because the examples given through
22
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 11, 1878.
one particular medium happened to bear out much of the theosophic
theory, “ M.A.” can afford to be peculiarly funny at the expense of
accuracy. “ M.A.” ventures to suggest a remedy for these spirit
vagaries. It is the old one, but unfortunately does not always apply.
We are told to “purify our circles.” I have seen this done, and half a
dozen worthy Christians listening, through a medium, to exhortations
from “St. Peter” and St. Paul”by the hour—given through the lips of
an entranced medium, in language which the men of Jewry or Athens
would not have tolerated for a moment. I have seen in the quiet of a
home circle, when the planchette has been used, a message written out
describing the horrible death of a relative in a distant land, when no
thought of such a person was present in the minds of the company.
The name, age, and minute particulars were given to “ identify ” the
spirit of the deceased woman, and of course the statement, so apparently
truthful, was believed, until weary months afterwards letters arrived
showing that the whole story of the planchette was a bit of as abomin¬
able a fiction as could be conceived of. It is useless for “ M.A.” to tell
me that the circle had anything to do with such a message. Is it
possible that the embodied spirits of the family would have concocted
a tale of murder for their own amusement ? The theosophical elemen-
taries are a more likely explanation. I fancy “ M.A.” must be unac¬
quainted with the mediumship of the Durham, Yorkshire, and Lancashire
district. If he made a tour through some of the “ circles”—not “pro¬
miscuous ” ones, but those confined to earnest truth-seekers—he would
find much to amuse, and not a little to astound him. At several there
are the healing controls, who declare that they were medical men in
earth-life, and talk rather learnedly on the subject, until you suddenly
prove them to be arrant “ quacks ” from the expressions they let fall.
Let me guard myself by saying, this is not everywhere the case, but
frequently so.
A hackneyed expression is made use of by “M.A.”—“a theory
which pretends to explain facts must explain all the facts, or it is
worthless.” Certainly. But one theory will explain one set of facts,
whilst it takes another theory for a dissimilar set. One theory is not
going to cover all the facts of Spiritualism, though it may embrace
those which have a relevancy for each other. If my theory as to
“thought-reading” by spirits explains a very large variety of mani¬
festations, it does not follow that I am to account for form phenomena
or trance speaking by the same hypothesis.
“ M.A.” asks, “ How do we stand as Spiritualists in the face of the
three Mentors who have been raised up to ‘ smite us friendly, and re¬
prove us 1 ’ ” He supplies his own answer. Spiritualists are, to a great
extent (particularly through clairvoyant mediums), the victims of
my “masquerading spook,” and others of the genus. “Are we,” he
wants to know, “befooled by the loose spirit of the medium?” I
think I must also say, “ Yes ”—or how account for the fiasco at Black¬
burn ? unless, indeed, you call in that unknown quantity, x, in the
shape of a theosophic “ elemental,” an even lower order of creation
than my maligned “ spook,” who has thrown a good deal of informa¬
tion upon a difficult subject, and rendered much that was hard easy of
comprehension.
In reply to your contributor, Mr. J. Carson, I must say I should be
prepared to accept his case as a genuine manifestation; but it is only
another instance of a person recently deceased paying his final leave-
taking. I have, in my own experience, met with two or three in¬
stances somewhat similar through different mediums. These cases
are, however, I maintain, only oases in the desert of difficulty; but
were it not for their friendly shelter, many of us in our spiritual pro¬
gress might fall into “ Doubting Castle,” or perish by the wayside of
scepticism. T. J.
Ulverston, January 8, 1878.
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY?
Sir,—The primeval science of astrology is divided into four major
parts—viz., mundane, genethliacal, meteorological, and horary. A
belief in mundane astrology may exist, as was the case with Lord
Bacon, without relation to either the horary or the genethliacal
divisions. Bamesey, who wrote a valuable treatise on mundane astro¬
logy, rejected the doctrines of horoscopes and horary figures. The
history of all ages testifies to the reality of planetary influence on the
great changes of the world, and the fates of nations. Pliny relates
that Anaxagoras foretold the fall of a meteoric stone, about the second
year of the 78th Olympiad, which occurred near the Egos, in Thrace.
“It happened, in sight of many, in the day-time, a comet blazing at
the time,” and, adds Pliny, “this stone was as big as a wain could
carry, and was kept for a monument.” Of Anaximander, the disciple
of Thales (a renowned astrologer), Pliny relates that “ he foretold the
earthquakes that overthrew Lacedaemon.” It is impossible that Pytha¬
goras, Anaximander, and Anaxagoras could have been blind to the
falsity of astrology, if it were a false science, as its adversaries assert ;
and it would have been impossible, also, for those ancient savants to
have foretold events by means of its laws had astrology no foundation
in fact. It is commonly asserted, in the present day, that the Coper-
nican system of astronomy overthrew astrology. That this assertion
is an idle and shallow one will be at once apparent when we reflect that
Pythagoras anticipated the discoveries of Copernicus, for he taught the
diurnal revolution of the- earth, and its annual motion round the sun,
which he supposed to be the centre of the planetary system; they
believed that “ the stars do rule mankind.”
Had Anaxagoras discovered that astrology had no truth in it, most
assuredly he would not have shrunk from publicly proclaiming such a
discovery, for he did not shrink from incurring the penalty of death—
afterwards mitigated into banishment, at the instance of his friend
Pericles—for having promulgated his theories in regard to the moon.
For my part, I would not presume to call those ancient philosophers
fools for believing in a science which they had studied, examined, and
proved to be true. I leave it to the soi-disant nineteenth-century-
| philosophers to descend to personal abuse, in place of examination of
that art which was the foster-mother of astronomy. I have never yet
| met with one opponent of astrology who could cast a figure of the
heavens, correctly, for a given moment.
The Reverend Dr. Butler sat down to expose what he thought were
the ridiculous absurdities of astrology ; but as in order more effectually
to show up the absurdities of the science, it was advisable to read and
study the subject, he proceeded to do so, and thus not only became a
convert, but wrote an “ Apology for Astrology.”
Kepler, of whom it has been justly recorded that “ the history of
philosophy affords no more remarkable instance of sincere, uncom¬
promising love of truth,” honestly avowed that “ a most unfailing
experience of the excitement of sublunary natures by the conjunctions
and aspects of the planets, has instructed and compelled my unwilling
belief.”
It may, perhaps, be interesting to your readers to know how I became
a convert to the belief in astrology. It was in this wise : In the year
1860 my father, Dr. C. T. Pearce, requested me one day to visit for him
a child suffering with a severe form of measles (in Northampton). I
may state, par parenthese, that I had entered as a medical student, in
October, 1859, at a London medical school. I found the child danger¬
ously ill, and, in reply to a question put to me by the father (a shoe¬
maker), I stated that it was my father’s opinion that she would have a
sharp struggle for life. The shoemaker observed to me that he had no
hope of her recovery unless she could survive midnight, for at the
crisis, which would, he said, be determined at that hour, the moon
would be in conjunction with Mars, and, having calculated his child’s
hoi’oseope, he feared that the ensuing crisis would be fatal. Such an
observation from a half-educated workman- astonished me greatly, and I
was still more astonished on learning the next day that the child had
died just about midnight, as the father feared. Up to that time I had
no faith in astrology, and had never studied it. Finding, however, in
my father’s library a copy of Zadkiel’s Grammar of Astrology, and
Tables for Calculating Nativities, I set about studying the science
forthwith. My father had recorded the time of my birth (9h. 20m. a.m.
of 10th November 1840, in London), and I found to my astonishment
that the sign and planets then rising (Mercury and Venus in Sagit¬
tarius) described my personal appearance and mental proclivities very
closely. I thereupon wrote to Zadkiel and told him that I intended to
study astrology, and asked him what other books I should procure, and
how long it would be necessary to study it before I should be fairly
entitled to judge of its truth, and form an opinion upon it. I received
a very courteous reply, in which Zadkiel said that I should study the
science for one year, at least, before passing judgment upon its claims,
and that I could not expect to become proficient in it for at least two
years. My father’s extensive practice in Northampton gave me many
opportunities of testing its truth, and the severest tests were at once
applied, viz., (1) in relation to the birth of children who died in the
first few months of their existence ; (2) idiots; (3) children born
defective, paralysed in lower extremities, deaf mutes, etc.; (4) attacks
of dangerous diseases and accidents, such as the rupture of blood¬
vessels, fevers, &c.; (5) children born blind; (6) persons who became
insane in adult life. In all cases, I invariably found that the rules of
the ancient and modern authors—I refer to Ptolemy, Placidus, Wilson,
and Zadkiel—were strictly and succinctly borne out. In less than two
years I found, like Kepler, that my experience had compelled my un¬
willing belief in astrology.
A very good proof of the truth of the science may be obtained on
reference to pages 536-7 of the Medical Press and Circular for
December 26th, 1877. The time of birth is therein given of a child
which survived its birth only twenty hours, viz., 3h. 40m. p.m. of
November 20th, 1877, at Dublin. The moon (almost exactly at the
full) was then rising in exact square aspect (i.e., 90 deg. distance in
longitude) to Uranus ; which fully coincides with Ptolemy’s rule as to
children who perish immediately after birth. With your kind per¬
mission, sir, I will resume the subject in a future number.
Alfred J. Pearce.
London, January 2nd, 1878.
HAUNTED HOUSES.
Sir,—Professor Barrett’s account of the so-called haunted house,
under the heading The Demons of Derrygonelly, as given in The Spirit¬
ualist of Jan. 4, is extremely interesting, and what strikes one is that
such occurrences are, for the most part, of a very similar character, and
do not seem like the doings of different persons. If demon or ghost
produces them at all, most likely a highly developed ghost of a rat or
cat is at work. Why not ? It was certainly not the sort of thing the
spirit of the deceased wife would be guilty of, for it would be sinful in a
spirit of an affectionate wife from the spirit world to appear only to play
such silly pranks. Henry Gh Atkinson, F.G.S.
4, Quai de la Douane, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Mr. George Harris’s Treatise on Man, is being translated into
French, German, and Russian.
Dr. Slade is now in Vienna. His powerful manifestations draw much
attention to Spiritualism in the various Continental cities he visits.
Next Monday evening, Mr. Thomas Shorter will read a paper on
Form Manifestations, at one of the fortnightly meetings of the National
Association of Spiritualists.
A correspondent writes that on the 28th and 29th December last a
church bazaar was held in connection with St. Peter’s and St. Paul’s
Church, Rishton, at which a “ Horoscope of the Church ” was exhibited.
This horoscope was drawn up by Mr. George Ormerod, of High-street,
Rishton, and prognosticated disturbances and disputes in connection
with the church at particular dates.
Jan. 11, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
23
DR. CARPENTER’S CRITICISMS.
BY THE REV. C. MAURICE DAVIES, D.D.
I am very much indebted to Mr. Whitear for bringing to
my notice Dr. Carpenter’s use of my name in Fraser's
Magazine ; and also to Dr. Carpenter himself for giving
me the opportunity of making the folllowing explana¬
tion
Dr. Carpenter speaks of me as “a well known author
who was far from being unfavourably disposed to Spirit¬
ualism.” The latter clause of this description is quite
true ; so much so that I felt bound to put on record every
fact which might seem to tell against Spiritualism, in
order that I might correct a bias of which I was quite
sensible. Hence it was that I imported into my book the
adverse evidence Dr. Carpenter quotes; and this circum¬
stance, I may add, led to my ceasing to be a member of
the Council of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists.
But since Dr. Carpenter accepts me as a witness against
Spiritualism, he can scarcely refuse to hear me in its
favour. Will he allow me to say, then, that after a
patient study of twenty years, pursued, so far as I am
capable, on the true inductive method, and, taking into
account (as he himself acknowledges) all the adverse
evidence, I come to a conclusion diametrically opposed to
Dr. Carpenter himself? I know that the phenomena
occur. I believe their origin to be spiritual. I hope that
the spirits may sometimes be those of departed friends.
Such is my present state of mind; but I should never
have dreamed that this could have had any relevance
beyond my own narrow circle, had not Dr. Carpenter’s
very flattering estimate convinced me of the contrary.
I never could see why we should lose our tempers on
this subject. Some Spiritualists denounced me because
I would not pin my faith to every medium, or say that
phenomena were genuine when I knew them to be simu¬
lated. The wiser ones saw that I was doing good service
by sifting the wheat from the chaff; and I am quite sure
Dr. Carpenter will not now appraise my testimony differ¬
ently because my conclusions differ from his own. To
me the matter is purely one of evidence. I am now of
Professor De Morgan’s opinion, that the preponderance
of such evidence is in favour of the pneumatological
theory. I agree that it is “ ponderously difficult; ” but to
me it seems the only one that will “ cover the facts.”
SEANCES IN THE LIGHT.
Now that seances for physical manifestations in a strong
light are so much wanted in England, the following account
of manifestations, through a Californian medium, is of
interest. The description is given by Mrs. Emma Har-
dinge Britten, in a letter to The Banner of Light, of Dec.
22nd, written from San Francisco :—
“The next good tidings I can conscientiously publish to
the world is in reference to Mrs. Ada Eoye, whom all my
Eastern readers will remember as Mrs. Coan, the far-famed
rapping, writing and test medium, whose public seances
have been known and recorded throughout the Eastern
States without the black mark of failure in the missionary
labour of over twenty-five years. Mrs. Eoye is now a
settled resident of San Francisco, married to an excellent
man, whose mechanical genius as an inventor has already
made him a name as a Californian institution. Mrs.
Foye practices her inimitable mediumship more as a
matter of duty than necessity, and though her tests were
strong enough some twenty years ago to convince the most
inveterate of sceptics—(to wit) myself—I believe I can
affirm they are even more clear, irresistible and convincing
now than they ever were.
“ Mrs. Foye, it will be remembered, is the only medium
known who can sit in a public audience and obtain tests,
not only by ballots, but also through rapping, writing and
clairaudience. She writes in Hebrew, Greek, Latin,
French, Italian, Chinese; the Kanaka dialects of Sand¬
wich Islanders, or any language which questioners may
desire. She sits now, as formerly, in a public hall, well
lighted, at a table with no cloth, curtains, drapery, or
other equivocal paraphernalia. A committee is selected
from the audience to sit at her table on the raised, well-
lighted platform, and watch her. The only condition she
makes is that the said committee shall be composed of
sceptics, and that the audience, instead of singing or
making any noises to drown the machinery of action, shall
preserve an unbroken stillness. On the occasion of my
taking leave of my first hall in this city, Mrs. Foye kindly
volunteered her services in illustration of my lecture.
She banished every one, even myself, from the platform,
lest there should be the appearance of collusion. The
brilliant lights, the unclothed table, the modesty and
simplicity of the dear little lady’s demeanour, completely
disarmed suspicion. She then called for a sceptical
committee, and ballots or folded papers containing names
of spirit-friends, and I believe there were several hun¬
dred closely-folded papers thrown on the table in response
to her invitation. To the well-accustomed audiences of
America I need not describe the simple, clear and con¬
vincing methods pursued by this celebrated medium. It
is enough to say she and her committee hold bundles
of these ballots in their hands, the spirits rap loudly and
forcibly when their own names are touched, pick them out
by raps, and before the ballot is opened write through her
hand or speak in Mrs. Foye’s ear the name contained in
the paper. The committee open the paper, and never find
it wrong. Then follow tests of age, dates of births, deaths,
country, diseases, or whatever other tests the audience
may demand, and in all, and throughout the space of
many years of public mediumship of this character, Mrs.
Ada Foye has never made failures or mistakes.”
Mrs. Foye should come to London.
SEANCES IN NEW YORK.
SLATE-WRITING PHENOMENA.—THE TRANSPORTATION OP FLOWERS.
Mr. Watkins, the independent slate writer, spent a few weeks here,
and gave great satisfaction to his visitors ; but his stay was altogether
too short. He left just as his wonderful powers were becoming known,
and the sceptics and doubters were finding out that there really was a
power at work which they could not frighten away with the cry of
“ Humbug,” or frown down with “ cold contempt.” We hope his
absence will be brief.
We have at our house two slates that were purchased by a gentleman,
a small bit of pencil being placed between the two at the time of pur¬
chasing. They were wrapped in heavy paper, and the card fastened
with sealing wax. These were purchased by this gentleman on his way
down town to business in the morning. In the evening he visited Mr.
Watkins, carrying his package with him, which never left his hand;
neither did Mr. Watkins touch the package until after the writing had
been produced. Upon opening the package the two inner sides of the
slates were found to be covered with a fine and closely-written com-'
munication, with the name of “Alice Cary” signed at the bottom.
Tnis is but one of many instances where writing has been produced by
invisible means in the presence of this medium.
Mr. James M. Choate, the medium through whom flowers are brought,
has also been in our city for a few weeks. As Mr. Choate’s flower
stances were held in the dark, it was proposed by a few friends, after
having had two or three sittings with him, that in order to have these
seances under more strictly test conditions, he should be placed in a sack.
He readily consented, and one was procured, made of coarse book
muslin, in which he was entirely enveloped. It extended about eighteen
inches above his head, and, after being securely tied, the strings were
fastened to the chandelier under which he sat. The first evening under
these conditions no flowers were produced, but the controlling spirit
assured us that when he had thoroughly mesmerised the material of
which the sack was composed it would be no impediment to the mani¬
festations. At our next sitting his promise was fulfilled, and eight or
ten flowers were brought, and were lying upon the floor, outside of
the sack, when a light was produced.
Every precaution was taken to prevent intrusion. The doors were
bolted and threads drawn across them; even the panels of the doors
were securely fastened. The room contained no articles of furniture
except the chairs on which the company comprising the circle were
seated.
At our third seance in the same apartments, owing to some unfortu¬
nate circumstances which rendered conditions unfavourable, no flowers
were produced.
Mr. Newton, being desirous of investigating Mr. Choate’s medium-
ship still further, and, if possible, of dispensing with the element of dark¬
ness, conceived the idea of enclosing the medium in a canopy of cloth,
so constructed as to entirely exclude the light from the presence of the
medium, and around this the circle could be formed in the light. This
would obviate the necessity of fastening doors and windows, and give
every one an opportunity of seeing that no one present left his seat.
Accordingly a canopy was made, consisting of three thicknesses of
cloth, and a company of friends again commenced the investigations,
which were conducted in our parlour. With the exception of the first
evening under these conditions, flowers were produced at every seance,
after the medium had been searched by a committee of gentlemen,
sometimes his entire apparel being removed and examined, to make
sure that there was nothing about his person or clothing in which
24
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 11, 1878.
flowers could be concealed. On one occasion his coat, which was
double-breasted, was folded across his breast, and drawn close around
his neck, and firmly sewed with double thread. He was then placed in
the sack, which was also tied about the neck and securely sewed to the
collar of his coat.
p1 He was then placed under the canopy, and flowers were produced
outside the sack, but in a smaller quantity than when conditions were
less severe. Mr. Choate is more willing to submit to conditions sug¬
gested by his investigators than any physical medium with whom we
have ever been acquainted, and in view of this fact is entitled in a
greater degree to our confidence and respect.
He left the city on Saturday last for a few weeks to fulfil engage¬
ments in Boston, but will return to us in January, when other inte¬
resting experiments will be made at the suggestion of the spirits by
whom he is controlled, the results of which we will report.
Mary A. Newton.
New York, Deo. 15th, 1877.
fonrg.
WITHOUT AND WITHIN.
Within the house was full of light,
The cheerful fires blazed high and warm;
Without, the snow lay thick and white,
And darker, chiller, grew the night,
And wilder, fiercer, raged the storm.
Within, the children frolicked glad,
The old walls with their laughter rang;
Without, a little ragged lad,
In trembling accents weak and sad,
A Merry Christmas carol sang.
Within, a Mother, young and sweet,
The story of the Christ-child told,
Meanwhile an orphan in the street,
With thin, worn, hands, and unshod feet,
Stood shivering in the bitter cold.
Within, their pleasant pastimes o’er,
The mother bade the children pray
For all God’s homeless, houseless poor,
And knew not from her close-shut door
The carol singer crept away.
Fair brake the Christmas morn, and lo !
With presents to each little bed,
Within, kind friends passed to and fro,
And outside, in the cruel snow,
A little beggar-lad lay dead. C. A. Burke.
Christmas, 1877.
A CASTLE IN THE AIR.
• Once I built a beauteous castle,
Nought on earth seemed half so fair,
A bright rainbow for a staircase,
The foundation—clearest air.
Lilies filled with oil of amber,
Shed abroad a mystic ray ;
Balmy summer ne’er departed,
Nor soft music died away.
The tall pillars were great palm trees,
And each palm of shining gold ;
Lightly fell the perfumed waters
From bright fountains clear and cold.
Brilliant birds fled to the castle,
All attracted by its light;
Revelled on the yellow fruitage,
Sang throughout the starlit night.
The fair walls were made of rose leaves,
Pure and white as Alpine snow,
And my love dwelt in that castle—
That was all I cared to know.
One sad evening while I lingered,
Lost in visions sweet and fair,
Then behold ! it swiftly vanished,
Passed away in lightest air.
Alice Worthington (Ennbsfallen).
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OE THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday night, at the ordinary monthly meeting of the Council
of the National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russeil-street,
London, Mr. Alexander Calder, president, occupied the chair. The
other members present were the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Dr.
George Wyld, Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Maltby, Mrs.
Lowe, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. W. Newton, F.R.G.S., Mr.
Parkinson Ashton, Mr. M. J. Walhouse, F.R.A.S., the Rev. W. W.
Newbould, Mr. H. Withall, Mr. Glendinning, Mr. Reimers, the Rev. T.
Colley, Mr. C. Pearson, Mr. and Miss Withal], Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. E.
T. Bennett, Miss Houghton, Mr. A. Joy, Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. C.
C. Massey, and Mr. Dawson Rogers.
The Chairman having read the minutes of the last meeting,
Mr. Dawson Rogers rose to explain about business transacted at the i
last meeting, that it had been reported [in The Spiritualist] that he had
“ suggested that instead of Miss Kislingbury drawing up the agenda as ]
heretofore, Mr. E, T. Bennett should be appointed to help her in the j
editing, but this was not moved or seconded.” He wished to inform the
Council that he had “never proposed or suggested anything of the
kind.”
Mr. Joy called attention to the records of the last meeting, which Mr.
Dawson Rogers, as the then chairman, had made, and to the following
sentence in his (Mr. Rogers’s) handwriting, as a resolution which had
been passed by the Council:—“ Mr. Bennett to help Miss Kislingbury
in the preparation of the agenda.”
Mr. Dawson Rogers explained what he “ meant” by his spoken and
written statement, and said that it had been seconded by Mr. Morell
Theobald.
Mr. Morell Theobald said that he had seconded Mr. Rogers’s motion.
The minutes, without the above resolution among them, were then
confirmed.
Seven new ordinary members were then elected. There were three
resignations. It was resolved, on the motion of Mr. Fitz-Gerald, and
amid applause, that Mr. Thomas Shorter should be invited to become
an honorary member. Mr. Denovan, of Sandhurst, Australia, was
elected an honorary member.
On the motion of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, seconded by Dr. Wyld,
Mr. Algernon Joy was unanimously re-elected honorary secretary.
Mr. Morell Theobald read the report of the Finance Committee,
which set forth that the Association had about £100 in hand, and
recommended payments to the extent of £85.
It was unanimously resolved that a special invitation should be given
to Dr. J. M. Peebles, to attend a reception to be proffered to him at the
next soiree of the Association.
The Secretary reported that in response to the offer of £5 made by
Mr. A. T. T. Peterson, if others would join him, £25 had been raised to
increase the number of books in the lending library of the Association.
Presentations to the library of Allan Kardec’s work Heaven and Hell
by Miss Blackwell; of Meditations by the Baroness Von Vay ; and of
a good portrait of the late Mr. Andrew Leighton, by Mr. Wm. Tebb,
were announced, and thanks given to the various donors. The follow¬
ing letter from Mr. Tebb accompanied the portrait:—
7, Albert Road, Regent’s Park, N.W., Jan. 7, 1878.
Dear Madam,—The bearer will hand you an enlarged photographic por¬
trait of a well-known Spiritualist, the late Mr. Andrew Leighton, of Liverpool,
whose brave and gentle spirit passed from our midst about a year ago.
Thinking that the likeness of so noble a presence may afford pleasure to the
Spiritualists visiting the rooms of your Association, whose privilege it was to
know him, and as helping to recall a manly, genial, and earnest nature, whose
loyalty to truth was ever paramount, I beg to request your acceptance of it
on behalf of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
William Tebb.
Miss Kislingbury.
Mr. E. T. Bennett said that certain strictures had been made in the
press upon the “ Progress Committee,” and without raising the question
whether they did or did not exceed the proper limits of criticism, he
would move that a vote of confidence in the committee be passed to
strengthen its hands in communicating with the public.
Miss Houghton seconded this.
Mr. C. C. Massey thought it an astonishing proposition that a public
body should take such official cognisance of newspaper criticism. How
would Lord Beaconsfield get on in Parliament if he did the same ?
Besides, if there were a division, and the decision were not unani¬
mous, in what position would the committee be ?
Mr. Joy sympathised with Mr. Massey, but considered the newspaper
criticisms mischievous.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald and Mr. Dawson Rogers supported Mr. Bennett’s
proposition.
Mr. Morell Theobald moved, as an amendment, the “ previous ques¬
tion.” This was seconded by Mr. Stainton-Moses, and carried.
Mr. Bennett, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Mr. Fitz-Gerald, and Mr. R.
Pearce then resigned office on the committee.
Mr. Massey remarked that if members of committees resigned
because the Council would not submit to their decrees, the Council
became a nullity, and a registration office for the decisions of committees.
“Moving the previous question” merely meant that the Council did
not wish to consider the other subject.
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald reported that the Research Committee had
obtained the “ bell test ” of the pressing down by spirit-power of an
armature inside a nailed box, with no wires or other part of the
apparatus within reach of the medium, Mr. Eglinton. Not only had
the armature been pressed down, causing a bell to ring, but a spring
had been strained, and electro-magnets disarranged inside the nailed
box, with some amount of force.
Mr. Glendinning gave notice that he should move that at the next
meeting the members of the Progress Committee who had resigned
should be reappointed.
Mr. R. Pearce gave notice of several motions, among others, that the
Correspondence Committee should be abolished.
The proceedings soon afterwards came to a close.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
* * * Y01ir letter consists chiefly of complimentary remarks, and space is
valuable.
Britannicus.—Your statements are true enough, but the facts you set forth
are so thoroughly well known, that there is no necessity to print them at
such length. It is a mistake to use the word “ science ” when you mean
“ physics ”—for mental facts are scientific also—and it is rather a good
thing that spiritual phenomena cannot be reduced to physics, otherwise
people with small moral or religious sense, who believe in nothing which
they cannot measure or bite, would be brought wholesale into our move¬
ment, to the great lowering of its higher character. Those who prosecute
innocent mediums without fair inquiry, and who misuse authority by mis¬
representing truth, would then join our ranks in considerable numbers.
Jan. 11, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of "W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Orowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6<L
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
BLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late. J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem. Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s. .
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific abihty. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit; and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supematural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; • the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals ;were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com-
mumcation should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the nv.-diumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpeiy
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
ot his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. ad.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirau, n-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. Q. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s'. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Oonant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. ad.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA, Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6<L
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s. __
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.” s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. ■ Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography oi A J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . ,20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
'History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . , . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . . .76
s cl.
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . .
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper .
Keys of the Creeds . . . . • . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) .
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ....
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ....
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen ,
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. ..... .0
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter *
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alieged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , ■ . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . IS
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Othee
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions oe the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical."—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistie throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H, Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.Q.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 foi' Is., post free, or 500,/or Is. §d., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says;—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’ ’
rflHE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
JL describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s, 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 11, 1878,
A NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE¬
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
T ORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific winch may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
• morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Lady writes: —
I “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
.. FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which jt relieves the system of effete, or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent torm.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
END’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please, —I am,
dear sir, yeufs respectfully, “W. B. Beckett ” .
Aug. 80, 1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—P H ARM A CIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man —6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Lknes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (88, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured."
From Nature.
Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.” ,
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will he sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.. . . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
. .. The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.” '
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volumefrom the versatile, pen of Mr, W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.”
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive. comic literature., The story is one of which extracts
would not giye an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain, a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want ill Thb Lazy'Laysf
“ ~ From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the typ f
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
) matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth riohly gUt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll,
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d, per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
■—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the’Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S ii ritual
World.
CHAPTER VHI: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress ot i'nrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom-
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:— Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Cdyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly iExists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—^Difficulties of the Subleet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Made and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Oases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep-Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—^Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
